. thatin new york. from 1945 through 1965. the facts indicate that some 13.008 cases have been effectively handled by.-the new york state commission for human rights. with an additional 406 cases still pending at the end of 1965. interestingly egh. only 150 of these cases were ever ordered for a public hearing and the overwhelming majority of these never went to court. they were either settled or discontinued before. during or following the completion of the hearing. something on the order of a half dozen cases actually reached the courts. i insert at this point in the record a table indicating the disposition of complaints filed with the new york state commission for human rights. 194565: disposition of complaints filed with new york state commission for human rights. 194565 employment public disposition total accommo- housing educedations tion age 0 ther probable cause. specific complaint sustained: adjusted after conference and conciliation ----- 2.818 163 1.441 399 813 2 ordered for hearing or consent order issued... i 183 1 82 17 83 ---------probable cause found as to specific complaint but other discriminatory practices or policies found and adjusted --------------------------1.842 82 1.656 43 61 1 -----probable cause found. specific complaint dismissed and other discriminatory practices or policies found ------------------------------ 6.685 345 5.001 496 827 1 withdrawn by complainant ----------------------- 463 25 236 51 147 4 lack of jurisdiction. specific complaint dismissed- 1.017 49 427 77 456 8 total closed ---------------------------- 13. 008 665 8.843 1.083 2.387 30 open. dec. 31. 1965 ----------------------------- 406 33 204 14 153 2 total filed ----------------------------------2 13. 414 698 9. 047 1.097 2. 540 32 i33 of these complaints were settled by a consent order without being ordered for public hearing. of the remaining 150. their status as of dec. 31. 1965. is as follows: settled or discontinued before hearing ------------------------------------------------------------------- - 74 settled during hearing ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 33 hearing completed --------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------- 26 pending ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 17 3 includes 8 complaints  related to employment. public accommodationsl housing. or education. so the experience in the state of new york. the state which has had the most experience. demonstrates that conference and conciliation and administrative enforcement procedures are effective. they do the job and they can work. the provisions of this bill. which i had the privilege initially of coauthoring with our former colleague. james roosevelt. in h.r. 8999 and h.r. 9061. give enforcement powers that provide as follows: first. a requirement that the commission in the first instance "endeavor to eliminate any unlawful employment practice by conference. conciliation and persuasion." this is basic. this is impbrtant. this is the central thesis. however. if the commission fails to effect the elimination of such an unlawful practice the commission has the power to serve a complaint and ice of hearing before the commission. and if. after a hearing. the commission finds that the respondent engaged in an unlawful practice. it  will have under this legislation power to issue an order "requiring such person to cease and desist from such unlawful employment practice" and to take appropriate affirmative action such as requiring reinstatement with or without back pay. the order may also require respondents to make reports showing compliance. mally that is all that will be required. if. however. compliance is inadequate. the commission may petition the u.s. court of appeals or the district court. if the court of appeals is in recess. for enforcement of the commission order and for appropriate temporary relief or restraining order. further. a person aggrieved by any order of the commission may seek and obtain review by the u.s. court of appeals. cxii- 576part 7 i believe the enforcement procedures are sound and equitable. and i believe they will work. aher central part of this bill will tackle much more effectively than has been the case the problem of discrimination in apprenticeship training. time and again. as members k. and as members of the committee have heard. progress in apprenticeship training has been minimal or virtually existent. in testimony before the ad hoc subcommittee on the war on poverty on march 9 of this year. secretary wirtz indicated that amongst all of those undergoing apprenticeship training in these united states today only 2 percent are negroes. this is shocking. it represents a clear waste of qualified human resources. this legislation specifically directs that: s c. 17. (a) the commission shall conduct a continuing survey of the operation of apprenticeship or other training or retraining programs. including onthejob training programs. to determine if the employers. labor organizations. or joint labormanagement committees controlling such programs are engaged in unlawful employment practices with respect to the operation of such programs. our concern is with the admission of qualified individuals to apprenticeship programs. they must be qualified on the merits. if they are. they should  be denied the opportunity on grounds of race. color. religion. sex. or national origin. further. this legislation makes abundantly clear that the commission for the first time shall make a full and complete quarterly report to the congress containing the results of such survey during the preceding 3 months. and such report shall be made available to the public upon request. i believe this will open the books and records of apprenticeship training programs and labormanagement programs to the public. with the requirement of. reports to the congress. this is the area where we have some of our most hard-. core unemployment. and the facts should be kn clearly and unmistakably to one and all to guarantee and insure for all qualified equal opportunity access to apprenticeship training.
i think the point which the gentleman from california is making is excellent. the committee or the whitten amendment could revoke or repeal title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. it is true that freedom of choice plans have been totally inadequate and insufficient evidence of desegregation. in a word invalid schemes for perpetrating segregation. specifically the courts have held that freedom of choice plans are acceptable only when these plans result in the elimination of discrimination and unconstitutional segregation. on may 27 of this year. the supreme court held in the green case that the "burden on a school board today is to come forward with adesegregation--.plan that promises realistically to* work. and promises realistically to work ." the whitten amendment should be voted down and we should give full authority to the department to withhold money to enforce desegregation. i commend the gentleman from california for his leadership.
ial qualification. and the question of place of birth. which was published in u.s. news & world report of december 23. 1955. entitled "is presidency barred to americans born abroad." this article by cyril c. means. jr.. casts new light on the significance of the constitutional provision. mr. means is certainly qualified to discuss this question having been a professor of law at stanford university and detroit college of law and law secretary to the late chief justice of michigan. hon. henry m. butzel. and the author of a number of legal articles.
i would like to finish one point. a lot of discussion on this floor sounds like a presentation of a case before the supreme court. is it constitutional or is it  constitutional. it is  going to be decided by us. that is for sure. it will be decided by i will  say a higher body but a different body. what i think we ought to concentrate our energies upon. . me. and others.  paying egh attention to those schools. they may. in some instances. have been brought on by overaggressive unions which appear on occasion to be more anxious to achieve benefits for their members than to make improvements in the system. so i wish a little less time was spent in arguing this before the supreme court and more time spent on how we can produce the best public school system anywhere in the world
my question then is. i can understand why this just is  accepted by a voice vote. is there anybody around here who is suggesting that we want in any way to limit the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states or to diminish the authority of the courts to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. it seems to me that is about the simplest matter we have had come before this senate in quite awhile. i can see why there is any debate over it. do i further understand that the helms amendment. which is the underriding amendment to which the senators amendment goes. do i understand that that would prohibit "the justice department from bringing any sort of action to require directly or indirectly the transportation of any student to a school other than the school which is nearest the students home. except for a student requiring special education as a result of being mentally or physically handicapped". . as i read that language. the department of justice would thus. as i see it. be effectively barred from participating in any desegregation case where busing could be part of the remedy. as i follow these cases over the years. busing is never the remedy. it is considered in connection with remedies to these desegregation difficulties.  am i correct in the senators interpretation. does he see this as the virtual repeal of the 1964 civil rights act declaring support for the supreme courts decision in brown against the board of education. is that the senators position.
i wonder whether i may ask the senator aher question. i wonder whether the senator will agree with the following editorial which appeared in the providence journal. in rhode island. on ember 19. entitled "reopening the nations wounds over courtordered busing." as follows: etched into the memories of most adult americans over the age of 40 is the landmark 1954 u.s. supreme court case. brown v. board o/ education. it was the end of socalled "separate but equal" public schools for black and white students and the beginning of nationwide school desegregation. progress toward racial harmony in this country over the last quarter century has been emous. pederal civil rights legislation of the 1960s went far in promoting equalty of opportunity in employment. housing. education and the political selection process. progress continues but there remain many more rivers to cross.
i am pleased to join senators weicker. mathias and kennedy in introducing the civil rights restoration act of 1985. legislation to strengthen our nations civil rights laws remains the major unfinished business of the 98th congress. it is fitting that the drive for civil rights should occupy a prominent place on congress agenda. indeed. few other endeavors have consumed so much of our national energies during the past 100 years. the civil rights debate has accentuated both the strengths and weaknesses of our national character. each civil rights victory has been hard fought. and the quest for equality has enriched our society. civil rights means equal opportunityfor blacks as well as whites. for the old as well as the young. for women as well as men. those who fought so hard for the landmark civil rights bills of the past generation wrote these laws to be inclusive.  exclusive. they painted with a broad brush. for their purpose was to reach out to all. last year we learned once again that vigilance is the watchword if we are to protect the gains which have been made. the supreme court. in its grove city decision adopted a narrow interpretation of title ix of the education amendments of 1972. in enacting title ix. congress clearly intended to guarantee equal access by both sexes to the programs and activities of federally supported institutions. the courts decision limited the governments ability to enforce civil rights laws in federally supported institutions by applying sanctions only to the specific program affectedcollege athletics. for instancerather than to the entire institution. this narrow interpretation compelled action to make clear that institutionwide coverage is triggered by the receipt of federal financial assistance in any form only under title ix but under three other important civil rights laws. and so we set out to clarify this broad scope of coverage to provide institutionwide protection against discrimination based  only upon sex. but upon race. national origin. disability. or age. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. government should establish legalistic barriers that prevent men and women from achieving their full potential. our business should be to enhance opportunity for all.  to narrow it for the privileged few. it was extremely unfortunate that our efforts to pass legislation last year became bogged down in a parliamentary muddle. in addition to the procedural difficulties. however. there were some substantive objections to our earlier proposal. it was argued that our amendments to the civil rights statutes did more than clarify their scope of coveragethat our amendments reached beyond original congressional intent and amounted to an effort to change previous regulatory practices. last year we attempted to clarify the scope of civil rights protection in these laws by replacing the term "program or activity" with "recipient." the use of the term "recipient" may have a far broader. reach than the existing language. but our objective is to assure that civil rights protections remain as strong as congress has always intended to authorize burdensome new regulations where they dont apply. the legislation we  propose does  include the term "recipient." instead it retains the term "program or activity"-the phrase narrowly interpreted by the court in grove cityand adds a definition of that term to each of the civil rights statutes. the definition is clear and leaves doubt that institutionwide coverage is the intent of congress. this definition is consistent with prior coverage. first. when a state or local government agency or department receives federal funds. the entire agency or department is covered. second. when a university. higher education system. local education agency. or other elementary and secondary school system receives federal funds. the entity is covered. third. when a corporation. partnership. or other private organization receives federal funds. the entire entity is covered. an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring the equal rights for all citizens. we must act promptly to clarify the broad scope of coverage intended for these statutes. the civil rights act of 1964. the rehabilitation act of 1973. the age discrimination act of 1975. and title ix have opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited. but these four statutes have helped our nation make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas.  is  the time to turn back.
i am pleased to join senators weicker. mathias and kennedy in introducing the civil rights restoration act of 1985. legislation to strengthen our nations civil rights laws remains the major unfinished business of the 98th congress. it is fitting that the drive for civil rights should occupy a prominent place on congress agenda. indeed. few other endeavors have consumed so much of our national energies during the past 100 years. the civil rights debate has accentuated both the strengths and weaknesses of our national character. each civil rights victory has been hard fought. and the quest for equality has enriched our society. civil rights means equal opportunityfor blacks as well as whites. for the old as well as the young. for women as well as men. those who fought so hard for the landmark civil rights bills of the past generation wrote these laws to be inclusive.  exclusive. they painted with a broad brush. for their purpose was to reach out to all. last year we learned once again that vigilance is the watchword if we are to protect the gains which have been made. the supreme court. in its grove city decision adopted a narrow interpretation of title ix of the education amendments of 1972. in enacting title ix. congress clearly intended to guarantee equal access by both sexes to the programs and activities of federally supported institutions. the courts decision limited the governments ability to enforce civil rights laws in federally supported institutions by applying sanctions only to the specific program affectedcollege athletics. for instancerather than to the entire institution. this narrow interpretation compelled action to make clear that institutionwide coverage is triggered by the receipt of federal financial assistance in any form only under title ix but under three other important civil rights laws. and so we set out to clarify this broad scope of coverage to provide institutionwide protection against discrimination based  only upon sex. but upon race. national origin. disability. or age. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. government should establish legalistic barriers that prevent men and women from achieving their full potential. our business should be to enhance opportunity for all.  to narrow it for the privileged few. it was extremely unfortunate that our efforts to pass legislation last year became bogged down in a parliamentary muddle. in addition to the procedural difficulties. however. there were some substantive objections to our earlier proposal. it was argued that our amendments to the civil rights statutes did more than clarify their scope of coveragethat our amendments reached beyond original congressional intent and amounted to an effort to change previous regulatory practices. last year we attempted to clarify the scope of civil rights protection in these laws by replacing the term "program or activity" with "recipient." the use of the term "recipient" may have a far broader. reach than the existing language. but our objective is to assure that civil rights protections remain as strong as congress has always intended to authorize burdensome new regulations where they dont apply. the legislation we  propose does  include the term "recipient." instead it retains the term "program or activity"-the phrase narrowly interpreted by the court in grove cityand adds a definition of that term to each of the civil rights statutes. the definition is clear and leaves doubt that institutionwide coverage is the intent of congress. this definition is consistent with prior coverage. first. when a state or local government agency or department receives federal funds. the entire agency or department is covered. second. when a university. higher education system. local education agency. or other elementary and secondary school system receives federal funds. the entity is covered. third. when a corporation. partnership. or other private organization receives federal funds. the entire entity is covered. an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring the equal rights for all citizens. we must act promptly to clarify the broad scope of coverage intended for these statutes. the civil rights act of 1964. the rehabilitation act of 1973. the age discrimination act of 1975. and title ix have opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited. but these four statutes have helped our nation make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas.  is  the time to turn back.
madam president. as my colleagues k. in may of this year. i reintroduced my public health and safety act. what does this bill do. this bill bans the sale. the manufacture. and the possession of handguns in the united states of america. my legislation. which is s. 892. would establish a grace period of 6 months during which time handgun owners could turn in their handguns and receive the weapons fair market value or $25. whichever is the greater. after the 6month period. madam president. one would be permitted to possess a handgun in the united states of america. except for law enforcement officials. military officials. antique collectors. target shooterstarget shooters who belong to clubs where the weapons are kept under lock and key--and security guards with the proper credentials. madam president. every single day that goes by produces further shocking evidence that this legislation should be enacted. i call my colleagues attention to the lead stories in the metro section of last tuesdays washington post. this is it. madam president. this is what it says: "student. 13. is shot inside se junior high." the details of the incident are somewhat sketchy. but it indicates. say the police. that the victim. robert williams. was shot in the chest last tuesday in the boys locker room at j.h. johnson junior high school.  senior high school. junior high school.. the police did  discuss the weapon. but you can rest assured the weapon was a handgun. further down in the article we learn that johnson junior high school. like 12 other schools in this district of the washington. dc. area. has metal detectors at its main entrance. . everybody ks that metal detectors are expensive. the school system. which does  have egh money for books and does  have egh money for athletic equipment or building repairs. has to spend its money on metal detectors and somebody to monitor the metal detector to keep handguns and other weapons out of the school. this is a pathetic situation that is occurring in our nation. but it is even sadder. even with this expensive hardwarethe metal detector and the guards on itthat a student managed to bring a handgun into the school and to use it against aher student. this is hing short of insanity. and it is  at all uncommon. according to one survey. 135.000 students in this nation of ours bring a weapon. a gun. a handgun to school every single day. just like it is a lunch box. how in the world are teachers to teach and students to learn in this environment of violence. in the same section of the washington post of last tuesday. 2 days ago. there are three other examples of the devastation that is occurring as a result of more than 70 million handguns circulating in our society and the easy access which we permit all individuals. including youngsters. to have to these weapons. page 2. washington post: "gun used to kill va. trooper linked to earlier case." virginia state trooper jose cavazos was killed when he pulled over 21yearold lonnie weeks and a friend on a routine speeding violation. unbeknst to the trooper. weeks had stolen the car. when he was pulled over. he panicked. pulled out a 9 mm semiautomatic pistol. and began firing. hitting trooper cavazos at least five times and killing him. further down. page 3: "youth surrenders in d.c. pool shooting." we all remember with horror the incident which took place last june in which an unidentified individual. standing on a faraway hill. fired- 10 to 20 bullets from a semiautomatic handgun into a crowded swimming pool in southeast washington. if a youngster can go to a swimming pool and be safe. where in the world is he going to go. one was killed. but six children enjoying the first days of summer were physically wounded. never mind the psychological trauma that those youngsters endured. the article tells us that a 14yearold boy has turned himself in and confessed the crime14 years old. and he had a handgun. the same newspaper: "police wound man at club." two nights ago. in a prince georges county night club. 22yearold thomas weems got into an argument with several of the patrons. he left. and threatened to settle the matter with a handgun. the employee informed two police officers. weems came back. shot. and the police fired back. hitting him twice. so it goes. listen to what is happening in my state. nice little rhode island. october 12. middletown. ri. police arrest a 15yearold boy for bringing a handgun to middletown high school. this is a quiet. small. rural town near the ocean. yet. we have children bringing handguns to school. september 18. central falls. ri. fifteenyearold tommy degraft. of pawtucket. was killed and his friend. albert robinson. was seriously wounded when aher boy fired approximately 20 shots from his 9 mm semiautomatic handgun into their vehicle. september 11. south providence. ri. eighteenyearold douglas buchanan was shot and killed by aher 18yearold with a .38 caliber handgun following an argument at a party. august 8. cranston. ri. ma arevalo stepped out of her sisters apartment with her 2yearold granddaughter just as 29yearold luis torres. armed with a 9 mm semiautomatic handgun. began exchanging fire with two men in a van. ms. arevalo was shot once in the abdomen and once in the ankle. this is a terrible situation. seventy million handguns are circulating in our country. and 2 million are being added every year. the nra claims that handgun possession deters violence. on this basis. this should be the safest country in the world. but. of course. this is sense. the opposite is the case. the more handguns. the more violence there is in our society. more handguns simply spawn more slaughter. a recent study published in the new england journal of medicine confirmed this point: keep a handgun in the household and there is an eight times greater chance that somebody in that .household will be shot by a handgun than if you did  have the handgun in the household. and the chances are it is going to be a family member or an acquaintance. an intimate acquaintance. who is going to be shot by that handgun you have in the household. this is the time for a radical reexamination of our handgun policy in the .united states of america. the brady bill. senator kohls proposal. likewise. which prohibits handgun ownership by mis. is a good step. but. frankly. we have to face up to the whole situation and ban these guns totally in our society. this violence is going to continue. every single day is going to bring more evidence of it. i am absolutely convinced that by the end of this century. we will have a situation .where every single family in america will have been affected by these handguns. that does  mean a mother or a father or child. daughter or sonperhaps that. perhaps a cousin or an uncle or an aunt--somebody in every single family in. america is going to be shot and perhaps killed by this handgun slaughter that is going on. so i commend to my colleagues the support of the legislation which i have introduced. it is senate bill 892. i do seek cosponsors. i am going to continue this battle and look for allies in it. i thank the chair. madam president. i ask unanimous consent to have these articles that i referred to printed in the record.
madam president. i commend the senator from oregon for his remarks. i completely agree with him. i do  think this is an area in which the senate of the united states ought to be involved. what i would like to do is just take a quick look. if i might. madam president. at what this amendment does. this is really a draconian amendment. what it says is that withstanding any provision of the law. funds from the u.s. department of educationfunds for head start. funds for chapter one. funds for literacy. funds for anything that comes through the department of educationshall be available to any state or local educational agency which has a policy of effectively preventing participation in constitutionally protected prayer. . the problem arises. madam president. in determining exactly what constitutionally protected prayer is. it is a fuzzy area that is very difficult to define. yet what this amendment will do is to put a tremendous burden on every local school department and every local school committee to try to figure out what that definition is. in our state. we have 39 cities and towns and each one of them has a school committee. although in some instances. two towns combine to have one common high school. for example. but basically. i believe we have some 36 different school entities in our state. and under this amendment administrators at each one would have to try to figure out what is constitutionally protected prayer. . we had a case come up on this. madam president. in our state. at the nathan bishop middle schoolactually. that is the middle school that i went tq--graduation a few years ago they had a benediction. and it was objected to. the matter was taken to the courts because ody could figure out whether that graduation prayer was all right. was it constitutional or was it  constitutional. did it violate the first amendment or . the case was filed in june 1989. in january 1990. the district court. our district court in the state of rhode island. said that benediction violated the u.s. constitution. so one court spoke. but then the case was appealed. six months later. in july 1991. it went to the first circuit court of appeals up in boston. three judges sat on the case. and in the decision they split two to one. which is  a very clear signal. and there they said they agreed that. yes. the benediction was a violation. but with dogged determination the school board appealed to the u.s. supreme court. . this is getting fairly expensive by this stage. and in june 1992. the u.s. supreme court handed down its decision. after 4 years of litigation and three court rulings. they decided in a close 5 to 4 decision that. yes. that benediction did violate the constitution of the united states. the total cost to -the city of providence. which like many others is a community that is having difficulty properly. funding its schools. was $110.000. and actually i think they probably must have gotten some kind of break on legal fees to go all the way to the supreme court for $110.000. that was money which could well have been better spent  on lawyers. but on childrens school books and school equillment. so after all of this. the decision came down from the u.s. supreme court that the nathan bishop benediction was in violation of the constitution. . what is my point. my point here. madam president. is if the courts themselves have such trouble with defining constitutionally protected prayer. how is a school administrator to tell what is a constitutionally protected prayer in his or her public school. it is very. .very difficult to tell. it is a murky area with clear definition. indeed. i would point out that we have a very prestigious first circuit court of appeals. and yet even they divided on the subject. just to make it even more confusing. 6 months after this decision from the u.s. supreme court on the nathan bishop case. the fifth circuit came out with what seems to be a contradictory ruling. . obviously they do  think it is a contradiction. they probably think they are following the supreme court of the united states as they are duty bound to do. but etheless their decision only added to the confusion out there as to what is permissible under the constitution and. what is . madam president. i think this is really going too far. to say that school administrators must  act as constitutional experts. they are meant to be running schools and educating children. and thank goodness that that is what they are meant to be doing. i hate to see them having to divert their time and energy into making calls on whether this one is a constitutionally protected prayer and that one is . always king that if they make a call one way or the other. it is probably going to be appealed or taken to *the courts--as happened at the nathan bishop middle school. so. madam president. i think this is an amendment we should  have. i k it passed here earlier this year. and this amendment is substantially the same amendment as the one we voted on earlier. i can say i voted against it. and i am glad i did. however. it passed very substantially. and i think that was unfortunate. i hope everybody who voted for this amendment back in february of this year would think of the confusion that it will bring to our schools. our public schools already are dealing with every kind of problem kn to man. why. they have guns in the corridors. they have children with drug problems. they have teenage pregnancy. all of these problems the administrators are trying to tackle while at the same time providing a good .education for the youngsters in their charge. on top of all these problems comes the question of constitutional school. prayer. under this amendment  i cent from the department of education would be available to any school committee if it denies--evpn inadvertentlyparticipation in constitutionally protected prayer. in my state of rhode island. a small state with a total population of 1 million. we could lose a good amount of money. the total federal funds for the state are $60 million. i suspect that the city of providence could be- risking millions of dollars. that is very. very important money. to that school system. so. madam president. i urge that my colleagues vote against this amendment. frankly. i think we ought to stay out of this whole business of this body trying to dictate what takes place in school prayer in the various schools throughout our nation. i want to thank the chair.
. today the senate will consider the ination of margaret e. curran as u.s. attorney for the district of rhode island. i wholeheartedly support ms. currans ination and appreciate its speedy consideration by the judiciary committee. it certainly is eworthy that ms. curran will be the first woman to serve as u.s. attorney for rhode island in the more than two hundred years that this position has existed. ms. curran has served as interim u.s. attorney since may. she has proven herself to be a thoughtful. competent. and qualified federal prosecutor. i have every confidence that she will continue to do a fine job as the chief federal law enforcement office in rhode island. an editorial in the providence journal said of ms. curran: "she has shown herself to have capacious qualities of leadership. intellectual rigor. and good humor." qualities that will serve her well as u.s. attorney. ms. curran has twelve years of experience as a federal prosecutor. she has earned wide regard from the legal community in rhode island. and she enjoys resounding support from gover lincoln almond. who. for twenty years. held the position she will assume. meg curran is a graduate of the university of pennsylvania and received a master of science degree in anthropology from purdue university. in 1983. she received her law degree from the university of connecticut. where she served as editorinchief of the connecticut law review. before serving in the u.s. attorneys office. ms. curran was clerk to the hoable bruce m. selya. u.s. district court for the district of rhode island and for the hoable thomas j. meskill. u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. she is a member of the rhode island bar association. serves on the federal branchbar committee. as well as the roger williams american inn of court. the first circuit gender bias task force. and the american law institute. also. ms. curran is professor of advanced criminal law at roger williams university law school in rhode island. i am delighted that the senate is prepared to confirm margaret ellen curran as u.s. attorney for the district of rhode island.
. today the senate will consider the ination of margaret e. curran as u.s. attorney for the district of rhode island. i wholeheartedly support ms. currans ination and appreciate its speedy consideration by the judiciary committee. it certainly is eworthy that ms. curran will be the first woman to serve as u.s. attorney for rhode island in the more than two hundred years that this position has existed. ms. curran has served as interim u.s. attorney since may. she has proven herself to be a thoughtful. competent. and qualified federal prosecutor. i have every confidence that she will continue to do a fine job as the chief federal law enforcement office in rhode island. an editorial in the providence journal said of ms. curran: "she has shown herself to have capacious qualities of leadership. intellectual rigor. and good humor." qualities that will serve her well as u.s. attorney. ms. curran has twelve years of experience as a federal prosecutor. she has earned wide regard from the legal community in rhode island. and she enjoys resounding support from gover lincoln almond. who. for twenty years. held the position she will assume. meg curran is a graduate of the university of pennsylvania and received a master of science degree in anthropology from purdue university. in 1983. she received her law degree from the university of connecticut. where she served as editorinchief of the connecticut law review. before serving in the u.s. attorneys office. ms. curran was clerk to the hoable bruce m. selya. u.s. district court for the district of rhode island and for the hoable thomas j. meskill. u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. she is a member of the rhode island bar association. serves on the federal branchbar committee. as well as the roger williams american inn of court. the first circuit gender bias task force. and the american law institute. also. ms. curran is professor of advanced criminal law at roger williams university law school in rhode island. i am delighted that the senate is prepared to confirm margaret ellen curran as u.s. attorney for the district of rhode island.
madam president. i would like to respond to two points that were raised by the distinguished senator from alabama.  1: certainly he is  going to stand on this senate floor and tell the american people that $500 million is going to achieve equality of educational opportunity in the united states. i 2for a complete history of this litigation see the most recent opinion of the district court. acree v. drummond. 336 f. supp. 1275 (1972). k that americans would like to believe it would be that cheap. but it just is  going to be. i think it is up to public officials to state accurately what the cost is going to be so people can kledgeably choose. say. "all right. if you do  want busing. it is going to cost $24 billion." and all of a sudden many americans might pop up and say. "we would rather have busing. because we do  want to pay that cost." there is way that $500 million is going to assure equality of education. there is way either that continuation of iriequality of educational opportunity is an acceptable alternative. as far as the senators comments on the state of connecticut are concerned. it is absolutely true that  one student in connecticut is being bused under court order. but it is also trueand i referred to this yesterdaythat because of the hysteria generated in march. everybody in connecticut believed that every child was being bused. i was told that thousands were being bused under court order. when. in fact.  one student was being bused under court order. so much for my commentary on the hysteria generated by the distinguished senator from alabama and his teammates. first things first: connecticut has  had any laws on its books which stated that there is a difference between human beings. point  2: i have made very clear in the state of connecticut that we would much better spend our time  being a cheering section for those states that had separate but equal philosophies. but. on the business of ending voluntarily de facto segregation. which exists. i said that. before the legislature or the courts impose mandatory requirements. let us be about the business of so arranging our education that we do  have to have a legislature- or a courtdictated solution. but certainly what is being advocated here is  the solution for thestate of connecticut or for the united states of america.
i suggest that if we want to tackle this problem. we should set forth what the law is and what the remedies are to the courts and the justice department. but we should  come in after the fact and say what we do  like when. indeed. we have forfeited our right to say what the remedy shall be. the senator is making exactly the point. we chose  to speak on this issue.  that someone else has spoken. we want to get in. we do  like that. we should have stood up and spoken in the first instance. we could have spoken in the way. i say the senator. which is the most meaningful. which was to go ahead and appropriate the moneys necessary to get around this problem. we do  want to do that. either. what remedies would the senator suggest are appropriate. i should like to hear his answer. this is a great opportunity for the senator to lay on the record those remedies which are going to address themselves to declared illegalities in terms of school segregation.
this raises the issue. . i would like to read an article prepared by prof. paul gewirtz of yale law school on "why proposed legislation to restrict the federal court jurisdiction is unwise and unconstitutional." this is dated march 27. 1981. the congress is currently considering a number of bills which strip both the supreme court and the lower federal courts of the power to hear cases involving school prayers. abortion and busing. the annced purpose of these bills is to try to change the results reached in specific supreme court decisions over the past 20 years. these bills are unwise as a matter of policy and uncohstitutional as a matter of law. they should be opposed whether one is for or against school prayer. for or against abortion. for or against busing. i might add. i have  read this until this minute. obviously it is a similar chain of thought. what is at stake is something far more fundamental than any particular issue such as school prayer. what is at stake is a central feature of our democratic political system for two centuries: the essential role played by an independent federal judiciary in our system of .checks and balances and separation of powers. at least since john marshalls famous decision in marbury v. madison. it has been established that the federal judicial power is supreme over congress in resolving federal constitutional questions and enforcing federal constitutional guarantees. the federal courts are the ultimate interpreters of the constitution. in the much quoted words of chief justice marshall. it is "the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is."
i thank the distinguished senator from delaware.  of the united states. that is what our constitution calls for. that is what is meant by the checks and balances of a tripartite system of government. we in the senate will  have the right to look over her shoulder as she writes an opinion and tell her. " justice ocon. you cant reach that conclusion or prescribe that remedy. you must support school prayer but  school busing. you must ban abortion but allow capital punishment." we can decide that for her. from here on she is on her own. is there anyone here who really wants 100 politicians to decide the quality of justice he or she will receive when their day in court comes around. do any of us want our supreme court cuanting votes on the senate floor when it decides an issue affecting our civil rights. the answer is  we all deserve better than that. in mrs. ocon we have a topch inee. let us confirm her and then stay out of the way and let her do her job. she will do it exceedingly well. today marks our swing at the pitch. and that is proper. what will always be inappropriate is to use the legislative bat as a subsequent club over the heads of the judicial and executive branches
. on july 19. 1983 the association of trial lawyers of america will ho one judge. from among the many and prominent federal appeals court judges. as the "outstanding federal appellate judge." that judge is thomas j. meskill of connecticut. a distinguished member of the second circuit court of appeals. judge meskill. a native of new britain. connecticut and a graduate of trinity college and the university of connecticut school of law has a long and outstanding record of public service. prior to his appointment to the federal bench he served as mayor of his hometown. congressman from connecticuts sixth district and gover of his state. indeed during the protracted discussions in this body concerning judge meskills confirmation the question was raised: does substantial experience in major elective offices recommend a person for a federal judgeship. i assured my colleagues at that time that judge meskills experience. temperment and integrity were exactly the mix of credentials capable of producing an outstanding jurist. . after 8 years of excellence on the second circuit bench judge meskill is being recognized by the legal profession nationwide as the "outstanding federal appellate judge". i congratulate judge meskill on the recognition he is so justifiably receiving and i believe we in the senate together with judge meskills family and fellow citizens of connecticut can take great pride in the accomplishments of this truly eminent jurist.
. on july 19. 1983 the association of trial lawyers of america will ho one judge. from among the many and prominent federal appeals court judges. as the "outstanding federal appellate judge." that judge is thomas j. meskill of connecticut. a distinguished member of the second circuit court of appeals. judge meskill. a native of new britain. connecticut and a graduate of trinity college and the university of connecticut school of law has a long and outstanding record of public service. prior to his appointment to the federal bench he served as mayor of his hometown. congressman from connecticuts sixth district and gover of his state. indeed during the protracted discussions in this body concerning judge meskills confirmation the question was raised: does substantial experience in major elective offices recommend a person for a federal judgeship. i assured my colleagues at that time that judge meskills experience. temperment and integrity were exactly the mix of credentials capable of producing an outstanding jurist. . after 8 years of excellence on the second circuit bench judge meskill is being recognized by the legal profession nationwide as the "outstanding federal appellate judge". i congratulate judge meskill on the recognition he is so justifiably receiving and i believe we in the senate together with judge meskills family and fellow citizens of connecticut can take great pride in the accomplishments of this truly eminent jurist.
i think it important to emphasize at this point that so many times i hear grove city mentioned. it is done so in the context of discrimination against women. and. more particularly. women in athletics. this is  a piece of legislation directed toward women or women in athletics. it is directed toward women. it is directed toward the elderly. it is directed toward the handicapped. and it is directed toward miities. indeed. add one or two more groups and it really is directed towards all of us. i want to point out also at this juncture that the failure to remedy the consequences -of the supreme court decision lies- directly on the doorstep of all americans.  on the doorstep january 26. 1.988 of the court or just on the doorstep of the senate or the house. i stated in the few minutes that i had to speak at the ebeneezer baptist church in atlanta last monday. that. in the final analysis. the american people are what make things happen in this nation. my refernce there was the latent discrimination that exists in all of us. from all sections of the country. and how. in the 1950s and 1960s we tried to place the blame on our sister states and their representatives from the south. but indeed such discrimination could  be eliminated until a nation asked that it be eliminated. when a nation asked. it was. even though it is called grove city. which sounds very legalistic. there is hing very legalistic or narrow or incomprehensible about what has transpired. it is discrimination subsidized by the american taxpayer. that is what is going on. that is what the issue is before this body. i have never seen any such anticonstitutional behavior so clouded over and masked by flyspecking arguments as has been true in the instant case. of course we meant it when we passed legislation saying that federal funds would be cut off if discrimination took place. i really do  find much fault with the decision of the court. because it is up to us to be precise. i do  like that decision that was rendered in grove city. but i can understand it. what i can understand is the failure to do clearly the very simple act of precision that was called for in that the court ruling. that is our job and it is the job of the american people. today in america a black person can walk into a satellite clinic of a major hosptlal and be denied treatment because federal funds support the operation of that particular facility. an elderly person can be denied equal access to bus service if a city uses all its federal mass transit funds for its subway system. then chooses  to buy "stepup" buses which many older people rely on. a disabled employee. matter how qualified. can be denied a promotion if the specific department involved receives federal money. a student can be sexually harassed without protection of the law if the building in which it occurs was  built with federal funds. the force and the promise of the 14th amendment. of due process and equal protection of the laws. and the intent of our civil rights laws. are being denied because of a technicality. a few specific examples will serve to illustrate the ludicrous way in which these laws are being applied. in foss v. city of chicago (n.d. ill. 1986). the court held that a handicapped firefighter who claimed to be improperly fired because of a disability could  sue the chicago fire department under section 504 of the rehabilitation act. the fire department did. in fact. receive federal funds. but the court found that those funds did  cover the specific duties performed by foss and therefore he had protection under section 504. in united states versus the state of alabama. a case decided just last october. the l1th circuit court of appeals reversed and remanded a district court finding that the state of alabama had perpetuated a "dual system" of higher education. according to the district court memorandum. alabama students were channeled into schools on the basis of their race and the predominantly black schools received far less state funding than white colleges. on appeal. the 11th circuit. citing grove city. held that the united states could  maintain an action under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 against a states system of higher education without specifying which programs and activities within the various institutions received federal funds and how those specific programs and activities were discriminatory. in walters v. president and fellows of harvard college (d. mass. 1985). a former employee of the building and grounds department of harvard university alleged that she was harassed on the job and ultimately forced to quit because of her sex. the court agreed that employment discrimination was prohibited by title ix but dismissed her claim because it found that the maintenance of school buildings where teaching took place was  directly egh related to the education programs that received federal funds. in the case moire v. temple university school of medicine (e.d. pa. 1985). a psychiatry student claimed she received a failing grade because she rebuffed a professors sexual advances. the district court dismissed her title ix claim because the professor in question received federal grant money. even though the university receives millions of dollars of federal funds. these are all court cases. the impact of grove city has also been felt. with a vengeance. in the executive branch. it is disheartening to recall that the courts ruling was welcomed by the department of justice. which had adopted the limited view of the laws a year before the supreme court did. grove city amounted to a judicial stamp of approval and other federal agencies followed suit. from compliance reviews of institutions receiving federal financial assistance to investigations of discrimination complaints. these agencies have taken a new and narrow view of their responsibilities. case upon case has been closed. narrowed in scope or never opened. our once vigorous enforcement efforts have been replaced by bureaucratic pape chases to pinpoint federal dollars. this is particularly true in the u.s. department of education. it is estimated that a total of 834 discrimination cases have been dismissed or narrowed due to grove city. just days after the courts ruling. the department dropped its investigation of sex discrimination in the intercollegiate athletic program at the university of maryland because the program itself received direct federal funding. and this was so. even though the department had already documented discrimination in travel and ether support services to female athletes. to take aher example. a black high school student filed a complaint alleging that her schools chapter of the national ho society failed to induct her because of her race. although she was ranked fifth in her class and tool part in many extrac.urricular activities. she was  a..ong the 16 students invited to join the society. the departments office of civil rights closed the case because it found the alleged discrimination did  occur in a program or activity directly receiving federal financial assistance. in yet aher instance involving the massachusetts department of youth services. an employee claimed that although he passed the exam to become "supervising group worker" and was ranked first on the list for such a position. he was denied it because of his disability. the office of civil rights advised the complainant that although the department received federal funds the custodial program did . case closed. madam president. for almost 4 years . cases such as these. involving vital civil rights. have been taken off the dockets or decided in the discriminators favor. its time the congress of the united states put an end to it. the civil rights restoration act would do just that. as its name suggests. this legislation would restore the broad scope of the nations four bedrock civil rights statutes. it does  rewrite the substantive language of those laws. it does  redefine who is a "recipient" of federal financial aid.  does it redefine what constitutes "federal financial assistance." the federal government can longer afford and the american people can longer tolerate discrimination in any program or activity receiving tax dollars. last week we celebrated the birthday of dr. martin luther king. jr. in his letter from the birmingham jail. dr. king wrote: "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." matter how few it affects or how subtly it occurs. injustice has excuse. we must never forget that "equal justice under law" is  merely a phrase that graces the supreme court building but a principle by which this nation lives. unless and until congress acts to restore full civil rights to miities. women. the disabled and the elderly. that principle is in peril. i urge my colleagues to join me in giving this legislation their unqualified support. january 26. 1.988 cod i also call upon the president to push for its passage. it was ronald reagan who said once: my belief has always been  that wherever in this land any individuals constitutional rights are unjustly denied. it is the obligation of the federal governmentat point of bayonet if necessaryto restore that individuals constitutional rights. right . president reagan. the bayonet is being held at the throat of the victims. the federal government. by virtue of its funds. is a coconspirator in countless cases of discrimination. congress and the president must cooperate to restore government to its proper constitutional role as defender against. rather than perpetrator of. discrimination. several weeks ago. this body examined the credentials rather closely of a inee to the supreme court of the united states. at issue was his dedication and commitment to the ideals of the u.s. constitution. his commitment and his dedication was found wanting. and appointment to that body was denied him. in the course of his confirmation hearings. judge borki  paraphrase his statementexpressed the belief that the courts were to be the last repository in the defense of the rights of the people of this nation. that congress and the executive were the first. the senate of the united states. the house of representatives of the united states. and the president of the united states: these were the ones to carry the battle against oppression in whatever form that oppression took place. . madam president. you k and i k what has been going on around here among republicans and democrats alike. during the past decade as civil rights have become less and less popular everybody has been sitting back saying. "let the courts handle it. we dont have to get involved. it is a hot potato. let the courts handle it." and then when the courts du handle it. if the decision is  to our liking. we say. "well. we have got to go ahead and do something about the courts." this very attitude. i might add. often means that this is a fingerpointing exercise. this very attitude is prevalent in my own state of connecticut today where the incumbent administrption through its commissioner of education has indicated that discrimination exists within our school system. i picked up the newspaper. and do you k what i read. comments that unnamed legislators will never bring this matter to a vote. the courts will handle it. and the courts probably will handle it. and the legislators will rise up in a mighty wrath as they have on the floor of the senate saying. we do  like busing. we do  like this or that remedy. when all along we have the first opportunity to make real. to make beautiful the ideals of our constitution. and yet we could  face up to a tough choice.
. i ask unanimous consent to place the following items in the record: a copy of the bill. the editorial "college students as voters" which appeared in the washington post on september 18. 1971. and the supreme court decisions in michigan and california which treat the subject of student registration and voting.
. busing within the context of the pending measure must be brought into proper perspective. the issue is . as is often stated. "busing to achieve racial balance." rather it is merely a question of whether busing shall remain as one of several constitutional tools available for overcoming a constitutional violation. at present it is the law of the land that busing is a legitimate mechanism for eliminating de jure desegregation in public school systems. those who oppose busing would have us reverse or dilute that law. it would serve us well to focus on existing law by reviewing the supreme court decisions relating to school desegregation and consequently to school busing. in 1954. the supreme court unanimously ruled that stateimposed segregation in the public schools violated the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. in brown against topeka board of education the court reversed the longstanding plessy against ferguson decision by ruling that "separate but equal facilities" are inherently unequal. the thrust of the brown decision was that black children were being denied their rights under law since they were receiving a decidedly and inherently inferior education. this dictum was reinforced a year later in 1955. in a decision. popularly referred to as brown ii. the court ruled that admission to public schools should be guaranteed. as soon as practicable. on "a discriminatory basis." the court also recognized that this would require the "elimination of a variety of obstacles." the interpretation of the phrase "discriminatory basis." and questions of which obstacles should be removed to insure admission to public schools on this basis. were the subject of several mi supreme court decisions over. a 13year period. in 1968 the court made it clear. again in a unanimous decision. that a local "freedom of choice" plan was inadequate to the task of meeting the mandate of brown ii. justice brennan. in expressing the opinion of the court. said: brown ii was a call for dismantling of wellintrenched dual systems tempered by the awareness that complex and multifaceted problems would arise and would require time and flexibility for a successful resolution. school boards such as the respondent then operating statecompelled dual systems. were nevertheless clearly charged with the atffrmative duty to take whatevcr steps might be necessary to convert to a unitary system in which racial discriminatlon wulid be eliminated root and branch. in weighing the steps which might be necessary. justice brennan added: freedom of choice is  a sacred talisman. it is only a means to a constitutionally required endthe abolition of the system of segregation and its effects. if means prove effective. it is acceptable. but if it fails to undo segregation. other means must be used to achieve this end. in april of last year. the supreme court unanimously affirmed that "busing" was among the "other means" which if required. must be employed to provide equal educational opportunity to all on a "discriminatory basis." chief justice burger wrote the opinion for the court in swann against charlottemeckleburg board of education: the objective today remains to eliminate from the public schools all vestiges of stateimposed segregation. segregation is contrary to the equal protection guarantees of the constitution and it was this maxim that was the basis for holding in green that school authorities are clearly charged with the affirmative duty to take whatever steps might be necessary to convert to a unitary system in which racial discrimination would be eliminated root and branch. the objective of the chief justice and his colleagues was to reaffirm unanimously the dictum. first enunciated in brown that all children must be afforded an equal educational opportunity. ideally. neighborhood schools would provide such education on an equitable basis. but the circumstances in this country are  ideal. ecoic opportunities and access to housing have  been equal. and neighborhood patterns have developed along racial lines. all too frequently these patterns have been institutionalized in the public schools by official acts. and it is in such cases. where schools have been segregated by official intent. that the swann decision applies. the supreme court has made it clear that it is a school systems affirmative duty to end segregation and provide quality education for all on an equal basis. when a system fails to meet its constitutional obligation it becomes the affirmative duty of the court to impose its remedial power. whether it integrates voluntarily or under court order. each school system requires different remedies. there is one. set formula for insuring equality of educational opportunity in all districts. the answers are  always easy. solutions. justice burger suggests. "may be administratively awkward. inconvenient. and even bizarre in some situations. and may impose burdens on some. but such problems can be allowed to impede the clear constitutional imperative to end segregation in our school systems." in the swann case. the court ruled that busing was an essential remedy to overcome racial imbalance in one community. for those residents who feared long bus rides for their children. the court pointed out that under the district courts busing plans there would be less busing than previously existed in the dual system. this points up an important fact: busing. which  serves as a means to desegregate. has long served as a means to segregate. for generations. white students have been bused past nearby black schools to distant white schools. in many communities this pattern continues today. busing can serve several ends. but. most important. it has long been recognized as an essential means of providing quality education. forty percent of the nations public school pupils ride school buses to school. and there is evidence to suggest that these 18 million youngsters suffer any ill effects from their daily rides. among educators. school consolidation has become syymous with improving the quality of education. in most cases. busing is indispensable to consolidation. is it  paradoxical that. though generally accepted as an instrument for school consolidation. busing is widely rejected as a method for school desegregation. this schizophrenic reaction to busing seems to reflect the undue fears of many americans that busing will somehow lead to a deterioration of education. such a view is diametrically opposed to the intent of the constitution as interpreted by the courts. and to the emergency school aid provisions contained in the pending measure. the intent of the constitution. as unanimously interpreted by the supreme court over the past 18 years. is equality of education for all. the intent of the emergency school aid provisions is to provide $1.5 billion in compensatory assistance toward the goal of insuring that equality and quality of education are syymous. neither the constitution  any provision of this bill suggests that busing is the necessary means to achieve desegregation in every instance. such a suggestion would clearly contradict experience and reason. clearly it is preferable for students to attend schools as close to home as possible. a school system desegregating voluntarily or under court order should seek remedies that provide for pupil assignments close to home. by remedial restructuring of attendance zones. "pairing" or "grouping" of schools. such a goal is often attainable. yet each school district poses different problems. and in some the segregated housing patterns clearly defy a "walk to school" remedy for segregation. in such cases. where other remedies will  work. busing must be used to unify a dual school system and equalize educational opportunities. when busing becomes an imperative remedy due to the absence of alternative approaches. caution is in order to insure that neither the health  the education of pupils is adversely affected by the busing process. the chief justice addressed the proper limits of busing in swann when he wrote: an objection to transportation of students may have validity when the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk either the health of the children or significantly impinge on the educational process. in other words. busing is. and must be. considered a limited tool in the desegregation process. though limited. however. it remains an essential remedy that must be retained for school districts desegregating voluntarily or under court order. the law of the land outlawing school segregation will stand. we must . therefore. limit the remedies available to a school district to be in compliance with the law. to limit the desegregation mechanisms available to a school district is akin to asking a physician to heal a patient while taking away one of the medicines necessary for the cure. we have long envisioned the healing of the persistent and painful patterns of segregation. we have long placed our initial hopes in the desegregation of our schools and the opportunity for a quality education for all. yet we find. in the desegregation of our schools. that we are treating the symptoms while a cure for segregation eludes us. segregation will be ended when housing and ecoic opportunities become truly equal and we move to an integrated society. when we reach the goal of integration in our neighborhoods. we shall be able under the law to send our children to the neighborhood schools we all prefer. the moving van.  the school bus. is the proper vehicle for true integration. while we should be ever mindful of the longterm goal. we can escape the narrower context of the issue before us: shall we impede school districts in their efforts to remedy a constitutional violation by restricting the constitutional options available to the districts. king the law of the land. do we then handicap those who seek to comply with it. the question can be put aher way. the gover of florida. reubin askew. recently raised it most eloquently and succinctly: were talking about more than the problem of transportation. were talking about a problem of justice. perhaps the time has come for all of us to decide if were really committed to desegregating our school systems and providing an equal opportunity for all. the time has come for us in the senate. the answer must be: we are.
la. president. once again we have before us amendments which seek to ige the tragic educational and social consequences of segregation in the nations schools. once again we have before us amendments which can only lead to future delay in achieving equal educational opportunity for all our children. and. once again i ask my colleagues to join me in rejecting these unconscionable amendments. the major effect of the amendments passed by the house of representatives would be the substantial dilution of the guarantee of equality embodied in title vi of the 1964 civil rights act. title vi bars discrimination in all federally assisted programs and makes federal grant making agencies. such as hew. a potent ally of the courts in combating race discrimination and assuring black children of their constitutional right to a desegregated education. title vi was more than a reaffirmation of federal policy. it was the basis of an alternative approach to school desegregation. every federal agency administering federal assistance was charged with the obligation of putting an end to discrimination in federally assisted programs. if discrimination continues. the act authorizes the "termination of or refusal to grant or continue assistance under any such program or activity." in short. title vi imposed on hews office of education the responsibility for affirmatively enforcing discrimination in all school districts receiving federal assistance. to enforce its orders. hew was given the right to terminate federal aid to any school system refusing to comply. title vi reflected an appreciation on the part of congress of the complex administrative problems associated with the process of school desegregation and the inability of the judicial process to deal comprehensively with the problem on a nationwide basis. the disappointing progress made in the courtroom in the decade following brown against board of education amply supported congress judgment of the need for an additional meansthe federal pursefor realizing the goal of equal educational opportunity. title vi admirably serves this need in the area of school desegregation by requiring hew to assume a major role in monitoring school desegregation. and by replacing the court order with the termination of federal funds as the sanction for assuring compliance. the importance of hews administrative authority under title vi is underscored by the continuing commitment of huge sums of federal assistance to public education at the elementary and secondary level. in view of the significance of the role played by hew in achieving our goal of equal educational opportunity. the limitations on the termination power envisioned by the house amendments is indeed a matter of grave concern. the house amendments contains two related restrictions on hew authority to enforce compliance with the requirements of title vi. in effect these provide that funds under the act may be used to force or. as a condition to the receipt of such funds. to require any school system to bus its students. to abolish any school. or transfer or assign any student "on account of race. creed. or color." that these provisions would seriously hamper. if  totally foreclose. any meaningful attempts by hew to secure compliance with the discrimination requirements of existing law is clear in view of the nature of the obligation imposed on educational authorities by title vi. as construed by the courts and applicable hew regulations. funded educational agencies are under the "affirinative duty" to operate systems which are free from discrimination and "to correct the effects of past discrimination". the supreme court has consistently recognized that this process will invariably require that students be assigned on the basis of race. thus. in swann against board of education. the court specifically endorsed the use of various racially based desegregation measures involving the remedial assignment and transportation of students. and in a companion to swann. the court sustained an hew inspired desegregation plan involving racial student assignments saying that: any other approach would freeze the status quo that is the very target of all desegregation processes. mcdaniel against barresi. in short. the house amendments would gut administrative enforcement of title vi by depriving hew of its authority to withhold federal funds from educational agencies which fail to pursue affirmative discrimination policies mandated by that enactmentthat is. policies which necessarily require that students be assigned to schools on the basis of race. in effect. the agency would be relegated to voluntary means of negotiation. conciliation. and the like to secure compliance with federal law. methods which. if the past is any indication. would prove futile in most cases or would at best lead to haphazard and inconsistent results. the program primarily affected by this action is the emergency school aid act. one of the eligibility requirements under that actsection 706) is that the applicant school district be implementing a plan to desegregate elementary and secondary school in the district or to reduce miity group isolation in such schools. since at least some pupil reassignment is a factor in virtually all elementary and secondary desegregation cases. this amendment could severely impair the ability of the department to enforce the requirements of the statute with regard to desegregation. the senate should also reject the houses action because of serious doubts which surround the constitutionality of these provisions. several federal courts have held that where race discrimination is involved the prohibitions of the fifth and 14th amendments apply to public and private programs administered by recipients of federal assistance. in simkins against moses cone memorial hospital. the court of appeals held that the racially exclusionary policies of certain hospitals receiving federal aid under the hillburton act were imbued with sufficient official involvement to bring the hospitals activities within the fifth amendment ban on racial discrimination. and the supreme court ruling in mcdaniel against barresi strongly suggests that federal funding activities may  be administered without regard to the affirmative desegregation requirements of the constitution. as such. the house amendment is clearly susceptible of constitutional challenge as an unlawful limitation on hews authority to insure that federal assistance programs are administered in accord with constitutional standards. in sum. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the rrcord a letter from the secretary of health. education. and welfare addressed to senator magnuson. chairman of the subcommittee on labor and health. education. and welfare. together with an attached statement.
on those court cases relating to school desegregation. i would just like to add that the court orders are just the tip of the iceberg. many school districts have only taken the first steps toward desegregation. the process is a long one and by our appropriation we are recognizing that these districts will require financial support for some time to come. so we really do need those funds. i quite agree with the chairman we are talking here  maybe about $1.2 billion.
what i wanted to bring out is this: the supreme court has indicated. and congress in the education amendments of 1974. has listed other remedies besides busing that can be implemented to remove the effects of illegal segregation. one was to assign to the nearest appropriate school. taking into account physical capacities and physical barriers. that should be done before ordering busing. second. take a look at the actual capacity. third. majority and miity transfer. then there are magnet schools. and other feasible plans subject to section 215. et cetera. in other words. we have other remedies that can be used before we resort. finally. to school busing. what the senator is doing. which i think is counterproductive. and anyone against busing surely can support this amendmentis to say that the courts can still order busing. but then we remove the other options that hew may use in place of busing. when we heard this amendment was coming up. we contacted hew and asked for their views. which are as follows: first. the amendment would prevent hews ability to prevent students from being assigned to dead end and lowquality classes. second. it would prevent hew from stopping intentional teacher assignment. that is. miity teachers to miity schools only. that would be cut out under the senators amendment. it could  be done. three. it would prevent hew from finding discrimination and doing anything about it at all. so the only remedy left would be courtordered busing. is that what the senator wants.
thus . it should be pointed out that the senate has acted on this amendment on several occasions. in the fall of 1974 we defeated this language. the language came over as the holt language. subsequently the senate defeated variations of the holthelms language by large margins. even overwhelming margins in several instances. and last fall the senate defeated this amendment once again. thus it has come before the senate time and time again. and every time. matter in what form or fashion. this issue has been defeated by the u.s. senate. like all the rest of the socalled antibusing amendments. this amendment does hing more than raise false hopes and expectations. the supreme court has said time and time again that we can have schools segregated by official action. and if those schools are segregated by official action. they must be desegregated. and busing can be used as a constitutional tool in order to effectively desegregate those public school systems. furthermore the helms amendment actuallyand i say this with all deference to my distinguished colleaguecould result in more busing- because the helms amendment would remove from hew the authority to do other things which could avoid the necessity for busing. such as the assignment of pupils. majoritymiity transfers. construction of new schools. closing of inferior schools. magnet schools. and other remedies contained in the esch amendments of 1974. so if the senator says one of his purposes is to defeat busing. he actually could be encouraging more busing by denying hew the right to keep records under these cases. i reserve the remainder of my time.
i just want to speak about courtordered busing. . at time has the court given authority to hew to order busing. hew is the department of this government. of the executive branch of the government. hew does  make the law. it carries out the law. there are funds in this bill which hew can use. but hew can use it when a school district is in violation of the law. when there is a constitutional wrong. what hew does. after a finding of constitutional wrong. is threaten the withholding of funds. as it has done in several instances. but as i pointed out. and the senator from delaware agreed. only in one instance has hew ever defunded a school district in the history of this country. there. obviously. has been harassment by hew in the past. there is  in the present. and i do  think we can anticipate any in the future. the supreme court says that busing is a constitutional tool that can be used. it does  say that it has to be used. it has inferred that it is a constitutional tool of last resort. when everything else has failed. then busing has been used by courts to desegregate school systems. what the senator from delaware would do with his amendment. with the senator from missouri. is take away the options of pairing. of clustering. and would deny the court other remedies to alleviate and to relieve constitutional wrongs. if we do that. we have really abrogated title vi. as the senator ks. so it is a very dangerous amendment. matter what the senator says. he may stand up and walk the floor and wave his hands and say this and that. but we are  talking about de facto segregation. and we are  talking about hewordered busing. we are talking about taking away a remedy that has been used and is available to remedy a constitutional wrong. and more. and the senator ks it. so i hope that the senate in its wisdom will recognize what this amendment would do. this amendment actually goes beyond the byrd amendment. and the senator will remember that 2 years ago he joined in with the senator from west virginia
. i am nativeborn. white. a gentilea protestant. that i am these things entitles me to special status or distinction. indeed i had choice as to any of them. except the last. but because i am these things. and thus a member of the comfortable majority in this country. i find myself under compelling obligation to express my disagreement with certain remarks made yesterday in this chamber by the gentleman from mississippi . as to mr. justice frankfurter. i am  personally acquainted with felix frankfurter. my last and only direct contact with him was as a student for a few weeks. nearly 20 years ago. but several of my close friends and professional associates have long kn him intimately and i have had occasion. of course. to follow his decisions and opinions in my practice over the years. i am convinced  only that he is  a communist. but also that he has more sympathy with the communists philosophy or their political. social. or ecoic beliefs or methods than does the gentleman from mississippi or than i do myself. he is utterly devoted to our american democratic system of government.
i would like to ask a question or two of the sponsor of the subamendment. what would the senator from michigan feel would be the effect of the amendment in a situation in which the local authorities took their action pursuant to an order of court to desegregate a particular school situation. would this be still. within the terms of the amendment. in the senators opinion. a matter of the exercise of the local will.
. 2 days ago a committee of students from rutgers university came to washington to present a petition urging congressional action to eradicate the causes of urban unrest. the petition was signed by more than 6.400 citizens in the new brunswick area of new jersey. the petitions were circulated by a committee for a better world for a period of only 48 hours. the response is therefore truly eworthy. i believe. and heartening evidence of the concern of many americans for racial and social justice in america. as an alumnus of rutgers. i am particularly proud of the initiative taken by these students. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the petition be printed in the record.
. it is  necessary to adopt the stennis amendment in order to make uniform our efforts over the country for the elimination of segregation in our public schools. whatever its intentionand i leave that for the conscience of the individual senators involvedthe effect of the stennis amendment would be to slow down the enforcement of the supreme courts decisions in school desegregation cases. to my mind. this would be a tragedy twice compoundedmany times compounded." already. as the supreme court has lately said. the time for deliberation and deliberate action is gone. the time for consummation of this objective is at hand.
. the issues we are facing in the senate in the next few days in connection with various antibusing amendments are  new to the senate. most of the amendments are variations of the socalled esch amendment that has been approved by the house as part of legislation extending the elementary and secondary education act. we faced essentially the same situation in 1972. in the spring of 1972. the house approved antibusing amendments to the higher education bill. the senate adopted a modification of these amendments that was offered by the distinguished majority leader. senator mansfield. and the distinguished miity leader. senator scott. the scottmansfield amendment eventually was accepted by the house and has been the applicable law since that time. in the fall of 1972. the house approved a separate antibusing bill that was identical to the esch amendments adopted by the house this year. after three unsuccessful attempts to obtain cloture. the senate set aside the 1972 houseapproved bill and further action was taken on it. the heart of the esch amendment is a provision that would restrict court ordered school busing to provide transportation to the school closest or next closest to the students place of residence. this limitation would apply even if it prevented application of the only effective remedy for a clear constitutional violation. it would apply even if the distance involved would be less than that involved in other busing for gifted or handicapped children or to consolidate grades. it would apply even if the busing posed danger to the health or safety of the students and did  interfere with their education. this provision is being offered as a substitute for the section of s. 1539 that restates the scottmansfield amendment. the scottmansfield provision writes into statutory law the limitations on busing laid down by the supreme court in its decision in swann against charlottemacklenburg board of education. these limitations prohibit busing that would endanger the health or safety of a child or that would impinge on the educational process. i believe the scottmansfield amendment places the emphasis where it should beon the protection of the child. it permits the use of busing in situations where that is the best tool to accomplish desegregationbut only if it does  endanger the child or his education. i believe that all desegregation plans and programs. whether or  busing is involved. must  place any children. white or black. in situations in which they would be in danger of personal harm or harassment. or in which they would get an inferior education. i oppose busing in situations where it hurts children. or where it hurts their education. it is a high quality education for all children that we are all seeking. i believe the scottmansfield amendment accomplishes that objective better than the esch amendment or modifications of the esch amendment. the "next closest school" limitation of the esch amendment alone provides adequate reason for opposing it. however. the esch amendment also contains a socalled reopener provision. this would permit reopening of existing desegregation plans to determine whether they comply with the priorities and limits imposed by the other provisions of the esch amendment. any desegregation plan developed under the orders of a federal court or a federal administrative agency since the brown decision of 1954 could be reopened under the esch amendment. even if the plan involved busing. from the beginning. i have been a strong supporter of the decision of the supreme court in the brown case and of the school desegregation progress that has been made as a result of that decision. clearly. the reopener provision of the esch amendment would encourage reopening of long healed wounds and would plunge many communities into revived racial bitterness and confusion. for each of the reasons i have mentioned i plan to vote against the esch amendment and modifications to it and i hope that the scottmansfield provisions will be retained.
. i am a new member and i am beginning to learn that matters are  always debated where they appear on the agenda. i believe it would  be fitting if some member did  visit on this side of the aisle to call attention to the failure to give full faith and credit to a judgment of the supreme court of the united states. as a lawyer i am shocked by the proposal before us to deny such full faith and credit to a judgment of the supreme court. the separation of the powers between the judiciary. the executive and the congress is basic in our constitutional government. we have found it the surest check on tyranny. there may be a tyranny of -congress just as there may be a tyranny of the judiciary or the executive. i do  want such tyranny . do i believe. does any clearthinking member of this house. for today the objection may be that the three men in question are fellow travelers i do  quarrel with that. tomorrow. it may be united states citizens of german. polish. italian or russian extraction. it may be catholics or jews or it may be negroes. once respect for the coordinate branches of government breaks down. there is end to the mischief which can be done. democracy can survive without selfdiscipline. i can sympathize with the feelings of the gentlemen of the deficiency subcommittee. when they speak of the odor relative to these cases. and i can appreciate the feelings of these and other members who believe sincerely that they have suffered here for years under the tyranny of a chief executive. but the people gave us a mandate  to substitute a new tyranny but to do away with the old. i believe we must ho these judgments of the supreme court. i hope and pray that in the same spirit of public interest that some changes have already been. made in this bill today. and on the basis of sustaining the coordinate branches of government as we ourselves wish them to be sustained. the deficiency subcommittee may again consider this matter. small in money and yet very great in principle.
. we are fighting the very old struggle here today and we might just as well recognize it. for the united states is longer a confederation of sections.  is the united states a conglomeration of individual states. we are  a nation. we are  trying to legislate morals. which. i think. is an oversimplification of what we are trying to do here today. we are trying to implement a very old. a very hoed. a very treasured right in our countryto protect a person inviolate in the possession of his life and his property and his right to the pursuit of happiness. equality of ecoic opportunity is just such a right. in this legislation we are trying to keep up with modern times which dictate that we have to pass a law which in its application. is only keeping up with modern times. we must also pass a law which has teeth in it or we are saying to ourselves that the right to equality of ecoic opportunity which we are trying to assert and preserve and maintain is  dignified egh to have government enforcement. that is the fundamental problem here. everybody who wants fepc. who wants it sincerely and deeply and understands what it means as an american. wants it effective. we k that you can have a policeman for every violation. and we k that enforcement powers is what makes for deterrence against violation. the legislature of the state of new york ks that. too. for it has memorialized the congress by resolution passed concurrently. dated january 31. 1950. to pass this very bill. and i am going to put that memorial in the record. it says and i quote: * * 0 the enactment of such legislation is of the greatest importance to the people and will tend to unite the country and create greater respect for our institutions among the other peoples of the world * * *. i am a member of the committee on foreign affairs. we have heard a lot about the reverses which the united states has taken in the far east in foreign policy. and we have taken serious reverses there. but let us  forget that we are asking asiatic peoples to adopt democracy. we are asking them to learn the freedom that democracy means. this billion people in the far east who have yellow skins. and the 140.000.000 people in africa who have black skins. we ask these peoples to have faith that democracy is fair and just and honest and does exactly what it promises to do. we can say that so much better and without questioning whether we are deceiving ourselves if we extend this elementary measure of justice to our own colored citizens in the united states. good faith in our ackledged responsibility to spread the ideas of freedom to all peoples demands that we pass this bill and pass it today.
the senator from new york is too much of a lawyer to advocate any such proposition. and the senator from louisiana ks that. the senator from new york is talking about a school board. that is what we started with. i had mentioned the hoxie case. under the supreme court mandate. there is a requirement to desegregate schools with all deliberate speed. i refer to instances where a man or agency is intimidated. or where. for whatever other reason. it may  take action. the question is. what hand shall press the button which shall set the judicial machinery in motion. it is  a matter of a husband and wife arguing. because the attorney general has jurisdiction over such matters. under the law.
i do  think the presidents statement. as carried in the news report. has that implication. at this time i should like to read into the record the questions asked and the answers given: i shall read from the transcript of the presidents news conference. as published this morning in the new york times: rowland evans. jr. (the new york herald tribune). following mr. whites question earlier. sir. are you convinced that it would be a wise extension of federal power at this stage to permit the attorney general to bring suits on his own motion to enforce school integration in the south. answer. well.  i haveas a matter of fact. as you state it that way. on his own motion. without any request from local authorities. i suppose is what you are talking aboutquestion. yes. sir. i think that that is what the bill would do. part 3. answer. well. in that we will see what they agree on. as a matter of fact. my own purposes are reflected again in the little memorandum i published last evening. and i am  trying to go further than that. i personally believe if you try to go too far too fast in laws in this delicate field. that has involved the emotions of so many millions of americans. you are making a mistake. i believe we have got to have laws that go along with education and understanding. and i believe if you go beyond that at any one time. you cause trouble rather than benefit. qucstion. may i ask one more question on that. then. if you amended that to allow the attorney general to move only in case a local or state official requested the attorney generals assistance. you would accept a thing like that. answer. i am  going to say what i would accept and what i would reject. im just saying i told you what my objectives are. why im trying to do it.  we will see what the senate brings out. i do  believe that colloquy pulls the rug from under those of us in the senate who are fighting for part iii. neither do i believe it pulls the rug out from under the supreme court of the united states.
i join my colleague in his outstanding and able legal analysis of the situation. i may say to him that i sat for more than an hour the other evening and listened to his speech. which included arguments on the jury trial proposal. i thought it was an outstanding. erudite speech. well worthy of the highest standards of a law school dean. the distinguished position my colleague occupied before he came to the senate.
 of the united states has made clear his determination to follow the policies which he followed in september 1957. the gover of arkansas has made clear his intention to use all legal force at his command again to endeavor to frustrate the federal courtand. i submit. the constitution itself. he tried it last year with the national guard.  he has urged the school board to resign rather than comply with the latest order of the court. it would be folly. under those circumstances. to expect the state to ask assistance. or to expect the school board and the local authorities to ask the attorney general to intervene. the court itself might well ask the justice department to intervene as a friend of the court. but i do  believe that the federal government should wait at the door considering the urgency of serving ice that there must be order in the house. under the circumstances the initiative should be taken by the executive branch. the courts have borne the full brunt of this problem long egh. they can be expected to perform legislative and executive functions as well. congress has failed. in my humble opinion. by refusing to pass an effective part 3 to the civil rights act. to do its part. part 3 would have given the attorney general authority to participate without leave of anyone. in individual actions to enforce the 14 amendment. again the situation bears out what i and others have been arguing. that such a course would be in the best interests even of those opposed to integration. because it would provide an orderly process of law. with the highest authority of the united states serving ice in advance as to what would be done. and  waiting until the emergency is upon us. the authority of the courts and of the law and that their mandates shall be obeyed is the very essence of community order. without it. government fails the people. even if the congress has  acted as a body to give the federal government specific authority to intervene in the little rock school litigation. each of us etheless has a duty to do his part to uphold the law and its enforcement by the federal authorities. it is for this reason that i have urged these courses of action which are designed to anticipate events rather than to react to them just as they threaten to overwhelm us.
 nixon in terms of the various media for that purpose which are available. including the international court of justice. finally. in personal terms. i think we shall see the state department operating as a team. i do  believe that secretary herter is quite the virtuoso. in terms of the operation of the state department. that the previous secretary was. we all understand the strength. power. and talents of john foster dulles. they were unique with him. i believe mr. herter brings to the task aher talent. the talent of being able to captain. lead. and inspire a very effective team. i believe we shall hear again from the policy planning staff of the department of state. which i believe represents an extremely important aid to american foreign policy. in short. while i have rose tinted glasses with respect to any appointment as difficult and trying as this. i believe secretary herters appointment is most auspicious for our country and for the cause of freedom in the world. i think the russians will learn to count with him as effectively as they learned to count with john foster dulles. i believe i have a right to say this. based upon the long and extremely sentimentalto meattachment for and personal cooperation with secretary herter.
on the other hand. on june 2. the board of supervisors in prince edward county. va.. served ice that they intend to abandon the public school system entirely. rather than obey a court order to start desegregation. taxes for school support will be levied for 195960 school year. the climate created by attempts to defy and circumvent federal laws and the supreme court public school decision on desegregation has been expressed in far more tragic terms in the pages of a recently published report called "intimidation. reprisal. and violence in the souths racial crisis." issued by the american friends service committee. the national council of the churches of christ in the united states of america. and the southern regional council. it recounted up to december 31. 1958. 530 such acts since january 1. 1955. 7 months after the supreme court handed down its decision in the brown case ordering desegregation. i hasten to point out that the report states that it is describing only the angry. violent side. and that there is aher side. the side of accommodation. understanding. responsibility. courage. and good will. on the part of both negroes and whites in the south. that side is  covered by the report. the introduction to this report is concluded with the following statement: finally. this is  a comprehensive survey of southern reactions to the desegregation decision. it describes only their angry. violent side. aher accounting could be given of patience. responsibility. courage. and good will by both negroes and whites. though this aspect of the south is  in view in the report. it is an authentic and undimmed fact of the south. to which each of the sponsoring agencies has paid tribute more than once. but we feel an obligation to call attention to the dangers posed by the record that followsdangers for which all of us. through silence or inaction. must share the responsibility. also. as a part of my remarks. i ask to have included a description of the details of other outstanding examples of intimidation. reprisal. and violence in the souths racial crisis which have occurred since january 1. 1959. up to june 25. 1959. including such examples as the lynching at poplarville. miss.. and other similar occurances.
here again are samples of the unrelieved violent side but they certainly deserve attention as does the constructive side of the controversy. which it is important to have in the record when we consider the urgent need for federal legislation. the most fiammatory. the most tragic. and the most senseless act of violence this year was the lynching of mack charles parker. i have discussed it on a previous occasion on the floor of the senate. it seems to me that it absolutely demands a federal antilynching law. i shall offer such a provision as an amendment to any civil rights bill which comes before us. the assertion that this killing of a negro prisoner in the south was the first lynching in some years does  erase the basic obligation of our federal government to guarantee equal protection of the laws to every citizen. i have already introduced amendments which would make lynching a federal crime and permit full utilization of fbi machinery to civil rights legislation introduced by senator johnson and to one of the administration civil rights proposals of which i am a cosponsor. i intend to call up such an amendment when and if civil rights legislation reaches the senate floor. i believe that the great majority of the citizens of mississippi are appalled by this crime. the actions of gover coleman. of mississippi. certainly show thatbut i believe also it is shameful that the federal government had to gather the evidence and then give up the case without carrying it through as it should because of the absence of federal law on the subject. while civil rights legislation. including that offered by the senate majority leader has been unable to make any progress in the senate this year. this record of legislative inaction is in sense paralleled by what has transpired in the legislatures of the several states. foes of the supreme courts mandate against desegregation in the public schools have been making progress. unfortunately. while we in congress have been standing still. in the effort to frustrate and defeat public school desegregation and equal protection under the laws for miity groups. 7 states have passed 30 laws. 25 of which involve the field of education. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a list of the 30 laws. from alabama. arkansas. florida. georgia. tennessee. texas. and virginia.
the senator from new york believes. with the supreme court. that a child should  be excluded from a school because he happens to be black. if his parents wish to send him thereand his parents do wish to send him there. otherwise they would  be suing in many courts of the southern states. there is hing to compel the parent to send his child to such a school.  of course . the federal government does  compel it. the federal government does say. in the supreme court case. that it prohibits the childs exclusion on account of his color.
i thank my colleagues. as we get into around the clock sessions and some understandable irritation of tempers on the subject in connection with the pending civil rights measure. let us remember that withstanding the niceties of parliamentary procedure and the excellent personal relations which all of us have a duty to seek to maintain here. there are great issues at stake. for. right outside the senate door as an alternative to law. hover anarchy. violence. and injustice and. perhaps also grave jeopardy to the success of freedom in the current world struggle. the morning news shows this all too clearly. sitdowns in chattaga. tenn.. by negroes demanding equal service at lunch counters did erupt into a racial riot. it is reported. this follows similar demonstrations reported in other th carolina cities. greensboro. fayetteville. highpoint. raleigh. durham. winstonsalem. charlotte. and concordand also in richmond. portsmouth. whaleyville. and hampton. va.. tallahassee. fla.. nashville. tenn.. and in rock hill. s.c. certainly violence or breaches of the peace are  to be condoned or accepted by anyone. we k also that what is happening is symptomatic of the refusal to accept a suppressed status which in the present day and age american citizens. whatever their color. find to be intolerable. there is indignation in some quarters and concern in most quarters of the country outside the south about this vexing problem. which can be swept under the rug. the 1954 decision of the supreme court in the public school desegregation cases and the report of the federal civil rights commission have ended for all time the mythology of change as the result of education and time alone. the backing of law seems to be essential. indeed. we see this spirit which typifies all of this activity in action throughout the world causing a revolution historic in extent even if there were struggle between freedom and communism on the scene. the greatest difficulties. indeed.  in brazilia. the capital of the great republic in south america. taken in juxtaposition to what was happening. very unhappily. in certain of our southern states. typifies for us very much both the domestic struggle and the struggle in relation to foreign policy which is involved in the civil rights issue. and i believe it is worth being ed by every senator. i deeply believe it should make every senator. who will have to be present night after night and who will have to answer quorum calls. as we were told. at very awkward hours. feel that this is  a vain. aning exercise in which we are engaged but that it is essential to the interests of our country and to its future. it is also essential. i believe. to the final success of freedom in all the world.
. today is the seventh anniversary of the historic u.s. supreme court decision on public school desegregation. and it is being fittingly celebrated in new york city by a citywide rally designated in ho of the national association for the advancement of colored people. "naacp week." it is so designated in ho of the great week and the role of the naacp in it. the effect of the leadership of the naacp in civil rights litigation for several decades has strengthened law enforcement and fortified the right of protest and petition. this organization has acted with courage and in the best american tradition in seeking the application of law in a very difficult field. the historic words of the supreme court in its unanimous decisionand i emphasize the word "unanimous" in view of all the controversy about itwill go down in history. on may 17. 1954. the supreme court held that in the field of public education the doctrine of "separate but equal" has place. etheless. 7 years later we are reminded by an article published in the new york herald tribune of today that public school desegregation. which is  the fundamental right of every american child and of the american people. proceeds at a very slow pace. we need federal laws to help speed public school desegregation. with power in the attorney general to sue. and in the federal government. by what laws we pass in congress. to give financial aid to cities still seeking to desegregate their schools. as well as to prevent civil disorder and the assaulting of people who peacefully make their way into the south for the purpose of expressing their views on this subject. in support of the constitution and the law. they are subject to assault and disgraces.  only with respect to the community which inflicts them but also to the united states as a whole. i hope very much that as time goes on. with the power of enforcement in the attorney general. and through laws that we in congress pass. the decent conscience of these communities. which is always the finest sanction of liberty on the american scene. will assert itself as against those who would desecrate these communities by seeking to take the law into their own hands. federal laws are needed for this purpose. it can be accomplished by executive order alone. the federal governments role must be one of backing up enforcement where the local situation is such that it is unlikely otherwise to be accomplished within that measureable and reasonable time called by the supreme court in the use of the words "with all deliberate speed." the slow pace of public school desegregation is a real factor in our national prestige at home and abroad. the authority of the u.s. government must be employed to fortify and reinforce the moderate forces in the south which are themselves seeking to make progress in complying with the law. i ask unanimous consent to have the herald tribune article printed in the record at this point.
. for one very fundamental reason. which is that under the terms of the amendment it is conceivable that a state or a school districtmore likely a school districtwhich is in contempt of court or in the prospect of being in contempt of a court which has made a desegregation decree in regard to the public schools. would etheless be entitled to federal aid. this elementary question. it seems to me. should settle whatever one may think about the merits or the demerits of desegregation of the public schools. it is the elementary point that conceivably. if we agreed to the amendment. we would be lending ourselves to aiding and abetting a contempt of a court order. after we adopted. in the civil rights act of 1960. most stringent provisions with respect to obedience to all court orders. it would seem an exercise of the most overt kind in selffrustration and in turning our backs upon our own considered action. should we  adopt the amendment allowing such a situation. it seems to me that that point alone would be egh to end any serious consideration by those who generally support the amendment. i do  address myself to those who are in opposition to the bill. though king senators as i do. i feel that even they. withstanding their opposition. would  wish to do anything to the bill. the fact is. as everyone ks. that the adoption of an amendment such as the one before the senate would very likely mean the end of the bill. i do  believe that even those who oppose the bill would wish to extend their opposition to the point of trying to kill it by the adoption. or by lending themselves to the adoption of this kind of amendment. that is my first point. which is minimal. and that is all that is needed to defeat an amendment that is based upon this fundamental question of law in terms of the policy as we have declared it ourselves. the second point is this: it has been pretty much implied and accepted by all who support the bill. that. if possible. an effort would be made to exclude from consideration the whole question of the implementation of the supreme courts decree on the desegregation of public schools. this idea. to which i have myself been a party. is just as broad as it is long. if it is our purposebecause we have had previous experience which indicates that it if. desirable in terms of the passage of some federal aid to education billto exclude from the bill itself measures which will deal with this fundamental question of desegregation of public schools. then it is equally valid and clearly proper that we exclude the affirmative. which seeks to compel money to go to school districts. whatever may be their practices and however they may be in defiance. of a court order in a school desegregation case. so i think that reason is an added one as to why the amendment should be rejected. because it would violate what is almostand i see the distinguished senator from south carolina [mr. thurmondi who is handling the bill in the chamberthe accepted desire of the proponents of the bill to exclude from its consideration the question of public school desegregation. leaving that question to separate law. executive action. and the other means which are open to all of us in our government and in the senate. finally. if we should agree to the amendment. such action would certainly be most discouraging to all who wish to see the wise and historic decision of the supreme court obeyed. such action would only be a license or permission for the forces which are slowing down any compliance with the supreme court decree to slow down compliance even further by indicating the attitude of the senate is that it does  feel very strongly about compliance with the law. on the contrary. the bill would enable us to support school systems whatever may be their position on the school desegregation issue. we should be enlightened by a very interesting news story which appeared in todays issue of the new york herald tribune entitled "the picture after 7 years of school desegregation." i am well acquainted with the facts and figures. as are many other senators. i refer to the facts and figures only because they happen to be so current and right up to date today. the reporter states that the whole effort to bring about desegregation of public schools is indeed a very lean one. the saying is. "seven lean years." of course. that statement is borne out by the fact that only 6.3 percent of the negro pupil total in the whole 17state area which was biracial and segregrated before the supreme court decision are  attending desegregated classes. and that in the states of south carolina. from which the proponent of the amendment comes. georgia. mississippi and alabama. there are public school children desegregated at all. indeed. it may interest senators to k that the only two states in the union that have  admitted a negro to a white statesupported higher educational institution are south carolina and mississippi. even most southern states have admitted negroes to formerly allwhite colleges. though by requirement of the courts in some instances. where the institution is state supported. it seems to me with that kind of discouraging picturediscouraging egh in and of itself in terms of our domestic policyand with the danger of aiding and abetting contempts against our courts in terms of their court orders. we should consider aher point. there are the overriding considerations of where we stand in the world on the whole issue. there is the lag and the slowdown. the dreadful and disgraceful disorders. the long roster of unhappinessand i use the word "unhappiness" advisedlyfor our country and for the south. whether it is in jacksonville. atlanta. clinton. tennessee. little rock. or allison. alabama. as it was the other day. or in birmingham. it would affect  only that one state and the people of that state. but also the entire nation in the eyes of the world. particularly in the eyes of the hundreds of millions of people whose skins are yellow. black. or brown. most senators travel a great deal. i hazard the guess that our nation would be affected in the eyes of europeans. who even to this day do  understand how we can endure any such disgrace in terms of our national standing and our national determination as expressed in the constitution.
i thank my colleague. . i think the strongest argument for the keating amendment. which is a most constructive amendment. upon which i complimented him yesterday and again compliment him todayis that it is a constructive addition to the bill. were i in the shoes of the sponsor of the bill i would accept the amendment. because i think it is eminently proper. we can hope to please people who are unreasonable. we can hope to try to shape a bill to deal with unreasonable points. most of us have thought. withstanding our deep feeling about school desegregation. and considering representative powells expression upon the subject. that the practicalities of the situation dictate that the question must be dealt with separately. but the practicalities of the situation certainly do  dictate that we should change the existing situation. what the amendment of my colleague from new york would do would be to maintain the existing rights and the existing situation of the individual citizen. therefore. i hope very much that his amendment will be agreed to. because it is reasonably adapted to do what must be done in all equity and justice. i can see how any reasonable personand i am glad the senator quoted his southern friendscould refrain from accepting this amendment as fair. matter how he may feel about school desegregation. because it would do hing but continue a right a citizen enjoys today with respect to suing to bring about the desegregation of a school district. aher point in respect to a desegregation amendment is that the supreme. court itself has held that the constitution must be implemented. it is  selfoperative. it must be implemented either by law or court decision. therefore. in order to desegregate a school district. one must start a suit. the supreme court has said. "we will cause the district court to enter a decree." and added that desegregation must take place with "all deliberate speed." such a condition involves questions of law and fact. so one may say that the antisegregation amendment is too broad. even the courts do  make that statement. they have said. "you must bring the suit and satisfy the conditions and timing for desegregation." but when a decree has been issued. the possibility that the secretary of health. education. and welfare could fly in the face of that decree in giving aid would be inconceivable. i do  believe it would happen. i do  care what the secretary of health. education. and welfare says . but he certainly puts us on ice that if we want to maintain the existing situation. we must adopt the keating amendment. and i hope very much that the senate will vote favorably on the amendment.
madam president. i have in mind making a brief statement as to how i see the present situation as it relates to civil rights legislation and the provision. which is  being proposed. to extend the life of the civil rights commission. we all k what the rules of the senate permit. we k that they permit the adding of amendments to any bill. yet the selfdiscipline of the senate is such that it is that only amendments which have at least some relation to the subject of a bill will be adopted. especially is this true with reference to civil rights legislation. it is only when there is an appropriate framework of civil rights legislation to which such amendments may be added that that is done at all. it will be remembered that at one time. in 1960. we provided for a set time when the senate would debate civil rights legislation. there was a clear understanding in the form of a statement by the majority leader that at a time certain such legislation would be brought before the senate. and that statement was made during the previous session. that is  the situation which confronts us today. what we are confronted with is that this is probably the last chance for the enactment of any civil rights legislation at this session of congress. i say respectfullyand i have supported the administration on many parts of its program. and as a result have been much criticized because of my support. but that does  worry me. if i am doing the right thingthat we e today a striking dereliction in responsibility on the part of the kennedy administration. in sharp contrast with the strong record made by the department of justice. under the administration of the presidents brother. the attorney general. in the civil rights field. this dereliction has been the administrations failure to seek essential civil rights legislation from congress. it has been said. and with some feelingand the record certainly would seem to indicate itthat there has been in effect a campaign of appeasement. of the south and that that campaign of appeasement continues. the question naturally arises. with respect to the administration. whether this is because there are so many key positions occupied by a number of southern legislators in relation to other parts of the presidents program. this failure to seek essential civil rights legislation from congress has occurred despite the freedom riders and sitin emergencies. which have even led to violence and rioting in some southern states. despite continued flagrant discrimination in buses and in airport and bus terminals. despite innumerable blockages in large areas of the south against any implementation of the supreme court mandate to segregate the public schools. blockages which have brought the entire program almost to a halt. i feel i must say that e of us who feels this way condones any denial of equal opportunity wherever it may occur. whether it be in a southern state or in my own state of new york or in other states. in my own state of new york we have had school segregation litigation. which has been decided by the federal court and in our own courts. the fact is that in order of magnitude there is comparison between the two situations at all. secondly. in my state. as in other thern states. the whole machinery of government. from the gover down. is organized and dedicated to eliminate barriers to equal opportunity. whereas in many of the southern states the situation is precisely the reverse. let us look at the figures. the latest statistical summary by the southern education reporting service shows that . in the eighth year after the supreme court decision of 1954. only 6.9 percent of all the negro pupils in the southern states are in an integrated situation. and this percentage includes the district of columbia. west virginia. delaware. and other states where desegregation was almost completed within 2 years of the court decision. since 1956. progress has been painfully slow. as of . four statesalabama. georgia. mississippi. and south carolinahave negro pupils attending schools with white children. louisiana has one negro child in a white school. in five other statesarkansas. florida. th carolina. tennessee. and virginialess than 1 percent of the negro children are attending schools with white children. thus. in 10 southern states. either there has been school desegregation at all or only minuscule progress has been made. madam president. this is 7 years after the supreme court decision. that is the background against which we  have the spectacle of an effort to ram through only a 2year extension of the federal civil rights commission. which expires on ember 9. under an extraordinary and littleused senate procedure to attach a legislative rider to an appropriation bill for the state and justice departments. thus imposing the requirement of a twothirds vote. without any illusions as to what can be accomplished. but at least to give the senate the opportunity to do what should be done with respect to civil rights legislation. my colleague from new york. senator keating. has already annced his plan with respect to such legislation. the senator from pennsylvania has also filed an amendment. perhaps other senators also will move into this situation. i am submitting amendments to eliminate the archaic poll tax restriction on voting. still existing in alabama. arkansas. mississippi. virginia. and texas. and to grant authority to the attorney general to initiate civil suits in representative cases to enforce civil rights. including school desegregation cases. with respect to the muchmaligned part 3. to give the attorney general much needed power. i shall speak on that subject when it comes my time to propose the amendment. and to join in the debate. based upon the record which has been made in the federal courts. and the denial of the opportunity to the attorney general to intervene in school segregation cases. and the general attitude of the courts. there is an absolute need for this power. which has been denied. i might say. too. if we gave a socalled safety valve to the dissidents. it would doubt remove a great deal of provocation to acts of anarchy which have occurred. i wish to close upon this e. i believe the situation which the country faces. in which we are thwarted and keep from debating and passing essential civil rights legislation in congress. because the administration does  feel this is the kind of "must" legislation which it must put on a high priority list. is an intolerable situation. especially as we look upon the world situation and see how any lag by us in the effort to afford equal opportunity for all is prejudicial to the interest of our position in many areas of the world. we will  have in this debate. for however long it may last. a last chance. withstanding the difficulty of the twothirds voting rule. and the other problems which are engendered by this situation. which would  be present if we were considering a bill to which an amendment could be added by majority vote. etheless. this is our last chance at this session to get any meaningful civil rights legislation. legislaton which is so urgently needed. considering the domestic and world situations. it is sad. indeed. that these efforts must be cast in the framework in which we find oursolves. and  get backing from the administration. which they so much deserve. civil rights. i rcpeat. should have been one of the highest priority "must" items on the administrations legislative list throughout 1961. i say. finally. that this is but the curtain raiser. the prelude. to aher battle yet to come. the battle to amend the senate rules of debate which permit of filibuster. that is yet to come. let every senator understand clearly that the precedent which will be established in this debate on the extension of the life of the civil rights commission and other civil rights legislation will have much to do with whether we make a meaningful change in the rules. if this curtain raiser is auspicious. then there is an auspicious frame of reference for a meaningful change in the rules. if it is . then i fear we are inthose of us who believe as i do in respect of these mattersfor grave disappointment in that regard. too.
. without arguing the point that even if the attorney general has the power. he is  exercising it. or that we have  given him the range of means to implement or exercise the power. i think it should be pointed out that his path. even if he chose to exercise that power. has  been untroubled. and has been so troubled as to need statutory authority. if he is to enforce rights under the 14th amendment. the attorney general has made attempt to initiate a single school desegregation suit or to intervene in a private desegregation suit. and matter how we might try to gild the lily. the fact is that desegregation of the public school systems is the key test as to whether or  we are getting anywhere in the civil rights field. either the attorney general has been called in by a court. exercising its own discretion to call upon the attorney general to act in the name of the united states. in such cases as faubus (254 f. 2d 797). bush (188 f. supp. 916. 190 f. supp. 861) and kelly (2 race relations reports 976983)-and three important cases in which the attorney general acted and in the last of which the court permitted the government to participate only as amicus curiae after a bombing in nashvilleor the attorney general. as in the kasper case (245 f. 2d 92. 265 f. 2d 683) entered an injunction suit only after there was a contempt charge based upon interference with the order of the court already obtained in the private suit.
i may say to the senator that we are dealing.  with a mandate. but with an authority. this proposal would give the attorney general great flexibility. and he could pursue almost any kind of procedure he chose in order to satisfy himself that it was truly a representative case. for example. if a person submitted a signed complaint. the attorney general could conduct an investigation and bring people into his office and talk with them. indeed. attorneys general have done that time and time again in respect of antitrust and other cases. the attorney general might conceivably believe it was a case in which an indictment might lie. in which case he could even convene a grand jury in one of the federal district courts and cause witnesses to come before the grand jury to testify under oath. the thrust of the proposed legislation is to give the attorney general the authority. and he would certainly be in a position to supervise its exercise. in order to allow him to select representative cases. the question of the senator from iowa. which is a quite pertinent one. of course. gives me an opportunity to make one further point. one of the great problems in the school desegregation situation is that. according to the supreme court decision. it is necessary to start suits in every district in which desegregation is sought. there are something like 2.300 biracial districts where school desegregation suits may or may  lie. in view of the particular complexities of this litigationand history has shown much of the complexity which is involvedit seems to me we should welcome a technique by which a great many cases could be resolved by a representative case. whereas a school district may  have to face only one. two. three. or four negro families with children in schools. who have limited financial resources. and who under antibarratry statutes are prevented from getting help in the suits. under this provision a school district would k it would be facing the attorney general. the attorney representing the state would k he was going to face the attorney general. i think this fact itself would be so salutary that we would cut through a great mass of indifference and neglect which has beclouded the whole school desegregation issue. when school districts. at long last. would k they were to be brought face to face with the kind of majesty and dignity which this kind of case should have.
 eisenhower had two basic civil rights measures which it always favored. whatever may be argued about whether it said x on one day and y on aher. there is question about its attitude with respect to the amendment for technical aid to school districts. i think it is fair to say that the middleoftheroad. conservative. reasonablewhatever description one wishes to give iteisenhowers sense of fairness dictated that this is the least we ought to do. i hope very much that this small measure of justice may find its way into the proposal to extend the federal civil rights commission. i compliment my colleague from new york upon offering the amendment.
 eisenhower. and that we were asked by the administration in the most explicit terms for such legislation. we had the strong support and testimony of the attorney general. and the backing of all the majesty and impact of that office for civil rights legislation. under those powerful circumstances. and considering the domestic and international implications of denying such legislation. it is indeed quite remarkable that the ones who oppose civil rights legislation got by with as little as they did. certainly very little. relatively speaking. was achieved considering the issue that was drawn. we all k that school desegregation. withstanding the mandate of the supreme court in 1954. is proceeding at a snails pace. one of the very cases decided by the supreme court in 1954 affected prince edward county. va. the schools of that county are  196.1 closed. and there is still hing done there about the mandate of the supreme court itself. in respect to bus stations and airports. there is  underway a great and deeply disturbing movement of freedom riders. threatening in many cases the most outright public disorder. indeed. that disorder has been released in a number of places in the south. hing has been clone about any of that legislation. finally. we have the issue of voting itself. which most people. including those from border states and those holding relatively moderate views. agree bears upon the civil rights issue. certainly everybody agrees that every american citizen is entitled to his voting rights. yet the other day we received a report of the federal civil rights commission stating that voting rights had been outrageously denied in at least 100 counties in the socalled black belt in the southern states. we must have the most elementary kind of legislation with relation to illiteracy. a sixth grade education is required in order to secure voting rights. that is  only the finding of some of the members of the commission. but it is the unanimous finding of the entire commission. let us remember that in many states the most strenuous efforts have been made to frustrate the application of the supreme courts decree in the school desegregation cases and other court decisions. in one state alone more than 50 bills were passed by the legislature which are expressly designed to further the doctrine of interposition. the doctrine of interposition is the doctrine that the power of the state could be interposed between the relationship of the federal government to citizens of the state. who are also citizens of the united states. withstanding that action. those of us who are students of the law believe that a great civil war. at untold cost of blood and treasure. was fought to certify precisely that the doctrine of interposition is contrary to the constitution of the united states. so under those circumstances. when we see the meager amount of legislation which. withstanding the overwhelming problem. has resulted in the federal civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960. which deal essentially with voting and other elementary crimes. and withstanding heroic efforts in the senate to do something about the problem. one begins to appreciate why. in respect to this subject. we are constantly operating under the gun of the filibuster. we are limited in everything we do by the fact that we are told. "if you do  take this while you can get it. you will  get anything." that statement goes  only for civil rights legislation. but also. as we shall develop in this debate. other items of proposed legislation. it would even include the proposed immigration legislation which was discussed the other day. which has been frustrated. twisted. and shaped by the power of a miity in this body to immobilize it. as these instances develop. one begins to realize that we are talking about a fundamental issue in american public life and in american society. i fear that we are engaged in a cause which  only involves rulemaking in the senate. but also is very fundamental to the way in which our country and our government shall be operated. withstanding the bad season which has been chosen. i welcome any opportunity to deal with this question. i close by reiterating what we discussed earlier today when the distinguished majority leader made his statement. let us  forget that in the declaration made by 10 republican senators and 27 democratic senators one point stands out. withstanding our disapproval of the time and the circumstances. we will stay to see it through. i think senators should take e of that as the very basis. in essence. of our dedication to what i consider to be. and i deeply believe my associates consider to be. a fundamental cause in the interest of our country. with farreaching ramifications upon every kind of legislation which is before us and. indeed. with real reference to the character which our country shall have at home and abroad.
i have studied these bills very carefully before joining as a cosponsor. it may be remembered that. with other colleagues on this side of the aisle. i joined in march in introducing a whole package of bills implementing the 27 recommendations of the u.s. civil rights commission. after studying these two additional bills i decided to join my very distinguished colleagues from connecticut and kentucky. whom i respect so highly. because i felt it was forwarding the common cause. i think the part iii bill. limited to school desegregation cases. is good. but too limited. be that as it may. we have our own part iii proposal. but this present version is very important to the case. in an area in which the frustration of the negro has been so legitimate. because school desegregation since the 1954 supreme court decision has proceeded at a snails pace. and there is so little to show for it. a mi percentage of negroes attending integrated schools in biracial school districts. secondly. on the public accommodation aspect. i have studied the legal approach of my distinguished colleague. the senator from kentucky. with respect to the utilization of the states licensing power. there are indications. in the opinions in the sitin cases decided by the supreme court this week. that this may be the basis for federal jurisdiction. in my own bill prohibiting discrimination in public accommodations. i have relied upon interstate commerce as being the determining factor. the senator from kentucky relies on the licensing aspect. because it is desirable to inject new concepts. new ideas. new bases for possible supreme court decision into this situation. i consider it an ho to join in this fresh. new initiative in this field. especially when it comes from such eminent sources as my colleagues from connecticut and kentucky. i am glad they have acted as they have. i pledge them my full cooperation.
the bill would clearly enable the attorney general to enforce  only equal protection of the laws. as in the school desegregation cases. but also due process of law. which would include the first amendment right of peaceful assembly and petition for redress of grievancesthe right challenged in birmingham. ala. this is a broad version of the famous part iii of civil rights legislation. and it is updated to meet current conditions. in that connection i point out that. when this provision originally appeared in the civil rights act of 1957 as passed by the house of representatives. it referred to certain sections of the law which prohibit conspiracy to interfere with various civil rights. principally equal protection of the laws and the privileges and immunities of u.s. citizens. in effect it was limited in its application to only a part of the 14th amendment as it has been interpreted by a succession of court cases since 1957. subsequent drafts of the provision have generally referred only to equal protection of the laws. it is our present intention to deal  only with 14th amendment cases of denial of equal protection of the laws but also with other cases under the 14th amendment. particularly under the due process clause. which would include the 1st amendment right of peaceful assembly to which i have referred. the bill also differs from other drafts of the part iii provision by eliminating any prerequisite finding that an individual complainant would be in danger of reprisal if he brought suit. in short. this is an updating of the whole "part hi" concept to include all of the rights which are guaranteed under the 14th amendment to the constitution according to the supreme court cases decided up to this time. our purpose in introducing this bill is to see if the president of the united states might  give it his serious consideration. as he is  considering submitting legislation far more adapted to meeting the national crisis which the country faces in respect of civil rights and equal opportunity than he contemplated before. he has already submitted a very limited package to us. principally on voting rights and including only one rather modest proposal related to public school desegregation. we request that he consider our proposal. which. in our view. is urgently needed as the key item of civil rights legislation in this session. if the president should come forward with a request which is inadequate by this standard. or should fail to support it adequately. we shall have to press this proposal. which i introduce today on behalf of myself and my colleagues. to a vote in the senate.
. the need mal and morbid psychology to questions for professional and specialized train- of criminal responsibility and many other ing in all services dealing with delin- problems get into the judicial mind is quency and criminality is  yet being through the occasional exceptional briefs of met by the programs presently under counsel. but this has the disadvantage. c e raby tieron grs prst s bde- compared with the proposal made. of being consideration. higher standards. bet- drawn upon only as the occasion for lititer informational services on develop- gation arises. it is  anticipatory of probments in the social and biological dis- lems about to arise. further. briefs are ciplines. and other aids to those who constructed in the heat of litigation. they work in the field are necessary. are therefore likely to be less thorough. cera el proposal to meet some of these tainly more partisan. than analyses of objective researches motivated.  by particobjectives in the form of a west point ular law suits. but solely by the search for academy of criminal justice to be set the facts and their possible implications for up under federal government auspices future legislation and judicial decision. has been presented by dr. sheldon each proposed legal interdisciplinary ingleuck. roscoe pound professor of law stitute would require a small central orat harvard law school in a recent ad- ganization of fulltime workers. comprising dress. i ask unanimous consent to have a director and several technical assistants. drie. i ak unand o f tthe materials selected and prepared by the printed in the appendix of the record permanent staff of the institute would be excerpts from his speech entitled. "law forwarded to the appropriate consultants for and the stuff of life." given at the an- their comments and - suggestions. they nual law schoolgraduate schools would then be subjected to further scrutiny alumni day luncheon. harvard univer- by the fulltime staff. with a view to detersity. june 12. mining which are likely to have a relatively
i said such thing. the senator from th carolina can wish it on me. i do  accept it. when the senator from new york spoke on the floor. as he has done so many times. arguing about how to bring about public school desegregation in an effective way. the senator from th carolina. who is an excellent lawyer and a former supreme court judge of his own state. ks that the measures proposed would all apply across the board. they would apply to new york and to th carolina. i hope when that time comes the senator from th carolina will really demonstrate his solicitude for his own state. as well as for the state of new york. by supporting the particular education measure which is  a part of the pending civil rights bill. the senator from th carolina will  find the senator from new york wanting in such support.
i used the example of the new rochelle school case. which. in my judgment. is  an example which establishes the maximum limits of miles or time. but it adapts the transportation of schoolchildren by bus to the convenience of the children in a particular situation. i do  wish to be understoodand i do  think i said any such thingthat the maximum limit of transportation by bus is 4 miles. perhaps in the city of new york it will be 2 miles or less. i think the transportation will have to be adapted to the situation of the convenience and safety of children. but the court in that case did provide for some transportation by bus. and that was the point i was making.
. readers of the daily press will have ed a renewed effort by groups in new york city who had previously sponsored the school boycottor. at least. one of themto get together and to present a front of unity with respect to the pending revision of the recent plan of the board of education for the correction of racial imbalance in the schools. i am very hopefuland i here express that hopethat the board of education of the city of new york will realize that. whether it likes it or . it has become a part of the entire national effort with respect to the public schools and the racial composition of individual public schools. i have supported the general outlines of the plan of the new york city board of education as being a sound one. and i have welcomed the fact that the new york city board of education has acted on its own. and has  had to be stimulated by court action. indeed. i believe that it did  need to be stimulated by boycotts. the board of education has a great deal at stake in connection with this matter. because probably it embodies the fundamental difference between what is going on in certain parts of the country. namely. in the southwhere the social order is segregation and where there is constant opposition to desegregation of the public schools. and where that development is proceeding at a snails pace under court orders. as compared with the progress being made in new york. where the whole climate and the people are in favor of correcting cx--411 racial imbalance in schools and in housing patterns which underlie the imbalance in the schools. the new york city board of education is proceeding along three lines: first. it is bussing children to schools of their choice which are under utilized. second. it is proposing to redraw school district lines. in order to obtain a better racial balance of the schools which serve those districts. third. it is proposing utilization of the princeton planthe plan to pair adjacent schools so as to concentrate certain grades in one school and certain other grades in the other schoolwhich may involve a modest amount of expenditure for transporting children by bus. in order to bring about the highly desirable result of a racial balance. insofar as we can achieve it. in our schools. without undue strain or inconvenience or injustice to the parents or to the children concerned. these are eminently fair principles. and i am sure the new york city board of education will proceed with them. although it will listenand properly soto the views of those who would have it engage in compulsory bussing on a wide scale. and also will listen to those who favor bussing at all and favor leaving the situation exactly as it is. certainly the educational aspects are the most important. in terms of the molding of our society. and i hope the new york city board of education will stick closely to those plans. in consultation with our state educational authorities. who. i believe. are very expert and have very sound views on this subject. i hope very much that the new york city board of education. having educational standards as its prime concern. will proceed without fear. because i deeply believe that the overwhelming majority of our people back it in a fair effort to resolve our problems. which are special ones which apply particularly to the th. as distinguished from the social order of segregation. to which those who are decades behind the times. are trying to adhere in the south. we can take great pride in what the board of education of new york city has already accomplished. i very much wish to see it continue as a leader and an example in this field.
in that case 187 young men in south carolina tried to meet peacefully on the grounds of the state capitol. and they were arrested by the police. the supreme court ordered all of them released. on the ground that the effort to restrain their exercise of the right of free speech was obviously unconstitutional because there was danger to public safety: i was only trying to state that this depicts very clearly our different attitudes. i am talking about the m of conduct. what i believe persons such as myself have objected to so strongly have been restraints and efforts to use force in such cases as for example. the attempt to keep a negro student off the grounds of the university of mississippi. which resulted in violence and deaths. we have been talking about efforts. including violence. to carry out practices which are contrary to the constitution. in addition. i believe it also in a sense bore out what i have mentioned before. namely. that we are really trying in a realistic way to act positively in all these areas. with all ho and respect to the senator from georgia. i still find it very hard to understand how men of such intelligence and brilliance. as so many members of the senate are. simply will  see what is happening and how it affects the entire nation. and that it is simply impossible to continue the social order of segregation. a situation which goes right to the heart of what we have been debating here. this is the .point i wanted to lay before the senate.
 of teachers college of columbia university. and rabbi judah cahn of metropolitan synagogue. the report points out that if new york city pursues its present course. as much as it is trying. it would take far too many years to arrive at the most racially balanced schools we can get. in view of the fact that a large proportion of pupils in new york city schools are negroes or puerto ricans. so the advisory committee. appointed by the state education commissioner. has made recommendations of a far more comprehensive and enterprising character than any previously made. from what can be determined. the city will probably adopt the recommendations and go ahead with them. the significant point is that here is an open society in which these problems are put on the table. considered. and then acted upon. parents. whether pro or con. can have their say in a perfectly open forum. we are doing our best to bring to the people a sense of justice in a situation in which the government participates and in which different societies participate. which centuries of experience has found to be the best road toward domestic peace and tranquillity. contrast this with a closed society. which we find in certain areas of the country. ably in the south. where there is resistance to the mandate of the supreme court on school desegregation. where compliance with the law proceeds at a snails pace. and where we are sitting on an explosive keg of dynamite without any real outlet being given to it. except by demonstrationswith all that that implies for the country. to senators still hesitating. on this subject. i say. study these two examples as to what our country should be. and as to whatin certain parts of itit is. considered on that basis. i do  see how the answer can be refuted. but where the states fail to handle such problems themselvesthere are  only states rights but states wrongswe must find other effective ways to act.
. may i e finally that the senator said we are demanding desegregation .  even the supreme court demands desegregation . it demands desegregation "with all deliberate speed". and all deliberate speed. it seems to me. calls for at least a start in 10 years. in many school districts.  even a start has been made in the entire 10year period since that decision. that is the reason why the federal government at long last has to step in. in our judgment. to see that at last a start is made. we k that there can be complete desegregation . we are  asking for that. that would give us a job which we could  do. we are asking for at least all deliberate speed. we are asking for at least a start within 10 years time. and that is the fundamental thrust of this bill
madam president. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a fine story. from the new york times. summing up the results on the 10th anniversary of the supreme court decision in the socalled school desegregation case.
the senators question takes me somewhat away from the continuity of my address. but i am glad to answer him. in my judgment. what this language seeks to do is to leave the courts free to deal with school desegregation cases where the right to enter a school is denied on racial grounds. in any way that the courts believe and the supreme court will sustain as a proper method to prevent segregation of schools under the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment to the constitution. what it provides is that a correction of racial imbalance is  deemed to be that kind of wrong which the statute is seeking to correct and. therefore. that by using the terms "segregation." and so forth. in the statute. we are  seeking to bring in under this statute cases where there is racial imbalance in a school. even though there is unconstitutional denial of admission to that or any other school on racial grounds. as i understand it. the supreme court has held that one of the civil rights guaranteed by the constitution with respect to schools is the right to admission to a school. whatever may be ones race or color. if it is a public school. it is  a right to attend a racially balanced school. in other words. the constitution does  guarantee that one will go to a school which has any given percentage of white and negro pupils. the equal protection clause guarantees only that one has the right to be admitted to any school. subject to reasonable regulations for admission. without regard to color or race. what we are trying to do. with this language in the bill. therefore. is to express in words that we are  trying to legislate in this bill in a way which the supreme court has  held to constitute a civil right under the constitution. we are trying only to give the attorney general the power to enforce rights already held to be guaranteed by the constitution.  to create new rights regarding education. in my judgment. therefore. to express myself practically. if a court finds that there has been a denial to a student of admission to school on racial grounds in violation of the constitution the court could make any order which the situation required. including busingwithstanding the language of the bill involved hereif a court believes. and the appellate court sustains it. that that is essential in order to correct the situation of unconstitutional denial to which i have referred. a classic casei will  take a southern caseis the new rochelle school case where judge kaufman found that there was a denial of admission on racial grounds. and then ruled that there had to be a limited amount of busing in order to cure that situation. i believe he stated that he would limit the time and the mileage in his order. in my judgment. hing we have written into the section would prevent aher judge from making that same kind of order. if i may complete my answer. because i believe it is an important part of legislative history to make clear what we have written into the bill. it would only prevent the attorney general from instituting under this statute a suit seeking to deal with racial imbalance in a school. and seeking to get an order of the court to correct that racial imbalance. in a case which is  within the supreme courts concept of a denial of equal protection of the laws and therefore  within our concept under this particular statute.
the senator has asked me some questions which may require a little research. but. one thing does occur to me immediately. and that is the case to which i referred. the new rochelle school desegregation case in which a decree involving busing was handed down by judge kaufman and the supreme court denied certiorari in that case. that is some indication of the state law on the subject. as we have been discussing it.
the senator from florida is incorrect in some respects. and is correct in other respects. he is incorrect in stating that i recommend or that these agencies recommend that hing be done . we recommend that a great deal be done . we say that a great many of these plans can be effectuated. and should be effectuated . we do  feel disposed to attempt to put all of them into effect . so we look for a continuing process. second. i do  accept the use of the word "segregation"-de facto or otherwisein connection with the new york schools. that simply is  true. and the contrast between the situation in new york and that in the south is as great as the difference between day and night. in new york city there are more than 600 schools.  one of them is completely negro or completely white. indeed. in 91 percent of those schools there is question of racial imbalance. that question arises only in 9 percent of the new york city schools. so when the senator from florida refers to the allegations by some groups that 31 junior high schools in new york city are segregated. i point out that they are  segregated in fact or in law or in any other way. in the way the schools in the south are segregated. in the new york city schools. any white children or any negro children can be admitted. but contrast that situation with the situation in the southern states. that is what we are talking about. in the biracial school districts. according to the report of the u.s. civil rights commission for 1963. 8 percent of the total number of negro pupils are enrolled in desegregated schools. and in the case of one stateto wit. the state of mississippi even token desegregation has even been begun. and in other states the desegregation is miniscule. the senator from florida has referred to what is happening in new york. let me. in turn. point out what is happening in florida. in florida. there is an enrollment of 1.183.714 pupils--956.423 white and 227.291 negro. of those negro students less than 1 percent. or 1.551. are  in desegregated situations. in other words. we are trying. we are moving heaven and earth to better a situation which differs as day does from night from the situation where desegregation is being resisted. i can allow myself to be drawn into all the refinements about new york without making it crystal clear that new york is obeying what should be the law of the land. and certainly what is its own law. we are in a situation in which we are trying to go beyond the requirements of the law to a social order which we believe to be consistent  only with the letter. but with the spirit of the constitution. that situation can be used as any justification or defense on the part of state after state where in 10 years literally hing has happened in this particular area. and where. therefore. the bill which the senate is debating today is absolutely and urgently required if we are to begin to satisfy the most elementary justice for people who have been denied the most elementary component of equal opportunity in the united states--equal opportunity for an educationfor so many years.
. last month i introduced the state and local lawenforcement assistance act of 1965s. 1409which would provide a federal matching grantinaid program to assist in improvement of the training. education. and recruitment of local and state police officers. in the states and the communities. there is increasing realization of the great need for the education of lawenforcement officials at a level beyond the training in police practices. which has obtained heretofore. more and more we find men and women with college degrees being attracted to law enforcementa tendency which requires encouragement and enhancement. the fact that more than 100 institutions of higher education. mostly junior colleges. offer courses in police practices is a favorable sign. an informative article on this subject. written by dr. william p. brown. director of the graduate program in public administration. of the school of public affairs. state university of new york. at albany. has been published in the may issue of the police chief. the publication of the international association of chiefs of police. i ask that dr. browns article be printed in the record.
when the senator says they do  teach in english. that is exactly what i say. but i say there is hing mandatory about it. many of the school are bilingual. in any case. we face a fact.  a theory. the fact is that the people have been trained in the spanish language. therefore. there is some justice to their complaint. i believe that if we encourage them to voteand i am for encouraging everybody to vote that we can possibly get to votethey will take a greater interest in political affairs and will. sooner become integrated into the american community. i believe we shall attain our objective sooner in terms of their learning english. in terms of their feeling a part of the new. york community. if they are given an opportunity to vote. there is one thing that i reject. that is. any analogy between new york and the south in respect to the thrust of the bill. because the fundamental objection we have made to the use of tests in southern states has been their discriminatory application. such tests have been applied differently to negroes than they have been to whites. in this respect. there is argument about new york. our state has applied its test objectively and fairly. even the officials of the department of justice have said so. there has  been a vestige of discrimination. be it also pointed out. and importantly. that when new york adopted the constitutional amendment in 1922. only 7.700 people of puerto rican extraction lived in new york. this is a relatively small number in terms of new yorks total population. and the amendment was  adopted to disenfranchise them. also. the new york state assembly takes the first step toward amending the constitution in this regard. but a number of years will be required for the whole amendment process to become operative. finally. there is the political question. it has been asked why i am for this amendment. though it may work adversely to my party. it has also been asked why the prospective candidate for mayor of new york. congressman john lindsay. is for it. when i talked to congressman lindsay about this. he said that he is for itwithout hesitationand i am proud of that. withstanding that it may work adversely. politically. for him. one does  go around seeking samples to assess. whei we believe that something is just. when we believe that something must be done in justice. then we are perfectly willing to face the issue with our eyes wide open. we have confidence in the good judgment and good sense of the people who may be voting. we have confidence in the people of the puerto rican community. therefore. we feel that justice will be done. i am  a bit afraid of this amendment. i am proud of it. and i am proud to say that so is congressman lindsay. because it is right. so these people have a just complaint. it has been hanging for a long time. we are considering a voting rights bill to extend the opportunity to vote to all the people of the united states: the state of new york has  discriminated. the state of new york does  have to be corrected under the 15th amendment. but we have dealt with poll taxes and other matters in the bill which also have 14th amendment conations. so when the junior senator from new york felt that this was the pertinent time to put this amendment forward. i joined him in doing so. consistent with my longstanding record in favor of this principle. i believe we shall be helping to bring closer into the mainstream of the mainland community a whole group of our citizens. i have illusions about the number involved. theoretically. in new york city. it is 300.000. but for practical purposes. it will be very many fewer. for there has been considerable apathy about voting in this community. and figures are available on how many of these 300.000 have an eighth grade education in an americanflag school in puerto rico. it may  make such a great difference in actual numbers. on its face. but it will make a great difference in the feeling of acceptance. in the feeling of belonging. in the feeling of participation of 300.000 potential voters. therefore. whatever effect it may have politically. i believe it will have a beneficent effect on the body politic. so i support the amendment. and i hope.the senate will so vote.
 does  feel that he wants that power or that he is prepared to use it. let us say to him what harry truman said to politicians: "if you cant stand the heat. stay out of the kitchen." that is what we are up against here. we think it is best in dealing with the educational institutions to arm the colleges and universities with power. we can tolerate the existing course of action in our country. courts can still convict and will. and young people can still have their lives ruined by going to jail. and they will be. we are only talking about cutting off the participation in federal programs enjoyed by college students.
i think it would scale down the level of this discussion if i engaged in any colloquy with the chairman which indicated any doubt in my mind that he did call witnesses. i might point out to the chairman. in fairness to myself. that it was suggested we call milton eisenhower. the executive director of the national commission on the causes and prevention of violence to deal with this question of violence. at that time the chair felthe is running the hearings and i have quarrel with thathe would rather hear the testimony of the police officials. the committee staffs. and at least some of the college presidents. before hearing other witnesses.
i would suggest to the senator that. momentarily. he omit subsection (f) from his amendment and that we check into the question with the department and get an estimate of what they think the national commission on school finance should do. and how much it will cost. before we actually commit ourselves to a figure. i am  quarreling about the amount of $150.000. it is  very much as things go here. but i think we axe shooting an arrow in the air on this concept. i am willing to take the commission idea as an alternative. but when we have ascertained the question to which i am  addressing myself. we will ify the senator from virginia and he can propose aher amendmentthe subject will  have been dealt with at allto keep the concept he  presents. if that is satisfactory to the senator. i am willing to join-
it is  yet time. . before our hearts bleed with respect to any childand i think that is properwho may be bused a considerable distance. let us remember the evil which we tried to correct in the civil rights act of 1964. that was the evil of a negro child who lived right across the street from a white school but had to walk or rideand if he was lucky egh to be bused. be busedwhatever distance it was to get to a negro school. that was a pretty iniquitous situation we were facing under those circumstances. and we were trying to correct it because we thought it was basically unjust in our country. so that we have to understand that in holding the balance. it is  yet time to completely throw overboard the reasons and rationale and procedures which caused us to pass the civil rights act of 1964 and caused the supreme court to make its decision.
a member of the miity staff of the committee which considered the pending bill was born in the district of columbia. he tells me that when he went to school in the district of columbia. there was a dual school system. he went across the street to school. but the black children of the janitor had to go roughly a mile. although it was a city. to go to a black school somewhere else. they could have walked across the street. too. but.  they were  permitted to do so. the reason i say that is to point out how integral an aspect of the desegregation process busing.  actually creating busing. but a shift in the busing pattern. can be in respect to this matter. the senator from th carolinaand again. i do  challenge his right to do so or the pertinence of any fact that was brought upbrought up yesterday a caseand as i read it. i might agree with himin great detail. the case involves busing and was very recent. as i said yesterday. we have all kinds of cases of that sort in the federal and state courts and in congress. and we fight against injustice and endeavor to correct the situation. but we do  pick out a particular example of injustice as the basis for junking the whole system. which is so deeply inherent in the constitution. by depriving the court of all jurisdictionwhich. in many cases. may be the only instrument capable of correcting the wrong. if that were the only superficial guide. i pointed out how often we would feel that what the court does is wrong. too. . i welcome making that issue clear for the guidance of the courts. second. i really think we would be pushing this far beyond any provident relationship to the constitutional issue and the issue in our country if we agreed to this amendment which takes away from the courts the jurisdiction to do anything about busing systems. but on the other side of the coin. the green case illustrates clearly what i have in mind. where the pattern of busing itselfif you wish to deal with unconstitutional segregationneeds to be revised. the court should have the power and the authority to do it.
that is exactly correct. we agree thoroughly. that is exactly what i am contending. i just want the senate to k precisely what it is doing. senators may be for it. senators may be against it. but at least they should k what they are doing. therefore. i concluded from that that all it is going to do is to make more slow the ability of hew to release money in segregated situations because it is going to have to wait for a court to act. it will be unable to do anything itself where it involves transportation. if the senate understands that. that is fine. and if the senate wants it that way. i do  agree. i do  think it is desirable for any school district. south or th.
i assure the senate that this amendment obtains for 1 year. it is for $150 million. in what will be a much bigger program. for that period and the amount of money involved. considering the size of the problem. i do  think i need to shrink from any possible investigation which may be due to an individual board. i will join with the senator when we learn more about awarding any board that undoes what a previous board did wrong. i think we need to go into the equities of the case.
as i say. i think it is most regrettable that we did  act on this measure last year. and in the course of these remarks i shall explain why. and what my hopes are for this year. this measure authorizes $500 million this year and $1 billion next year. to assist in meeting the special problems incident to desegregationby which we mean the classic compliance with the decisions of the u.s. supreme court on the fact that every american child is entitled to a segregated educationand the elimination. reduction. or prevention of miity group isolation in elementary and secondary schools--that is. such an undue concentration of the children of one miity group or a number of miity groups in a given school district. or even individual schools. as to materially reduce the capabilities for learning and the capabilities for advancement in education on the part of that child or those children. funds may be used for such activities as remedial services. additional professional staff. staff training and retraining. guidance and counseling programs. new instructional techniques and materials. inative intergroup educational programs. repair and mi remodeling of facilities. auxiliary services. community activities. special administrative activities. planning and evaluation. and other specially designed projects to achieve desegregation and to reduce or prevent miity group isolation. it is critically important. . i am sure these differences can be resolved. we would  be talking about $1.5 billion for this matter if it had  been proposed. and there would be place for the difference between the views of the subcommittee on education and the views of the administration if the proposal had  been made in the first place. i express the feeling that the leadership will give us high priority to consider a bill. if we can agree upon one. and i believe there is every likelihood of doing so. it is toward that end and the contribution toward that objective that i have introduced the administrations bill today. exhibit 1
i am sorry. i can agree. as others have said. i was very much a party to these negotiations. and i beg the senator to believe that we really proceeded on the theory that the supreme court had  yet really dug into the socalled de facto situations egh to say they were  de jure as well. we clearly did  assume this was solely a southern problem. we did  assume that segregated situationsi am using that term rather than "official discrimination." as we have heretofore defined itwould  come . or. ultimately. under the inhibition of law. so i can accept the proposition that parts 1 and 2 were solely applicable to the south. and part 3. relatively speaking. was solely applicable to the th. we were anticipating that in many socalled de facto situations the court.  or hereafter. would find a violation of the constitutional protection. and we tried very hard. for that reason. to obey what is the policy of the senate. certainly as expressed in stennisribicoff. and we feel the policy of the president. to deal with the substance of what was inhibiting education. in terms of racial composition of school bodies rather than trying to cut the cloth according to the decisions which had been rendered up to .
the senator. said "without the approval of the secretary." he can mean that: if i understood the senator from rhode island. he said we will do two things with respect to this provision. once a school district is eligible. we will make its. courtordered activities eligiblethere .is *question about thatand we will allow the commissioner to weigh any part of section 6 regarding the districts which are under court order to desegregate. we always use the word "may" where we are trying to give the administrator discretion -in respect to a mandatory requirement. the senator proves the case himself when he. says section 6 says "shall." therefore. it makes that mandatory. therefore. if the senator wants to give discretionl with respect to the mandatory power. the discretion is given by saying "may." remember that the "withstanding" provision of section 6 is keit. i see difference between the senator from florida. the senator from rhode island. and myself. they are eligible. and the secretary is given discretion to relieve the district of any part of section 6. withstanding that. as it  stands. section 6 is mandatory: that is what i understand will result from the legal situation.
i have listened to the questions of the senator from kentucky with great interest. i would like to suggest to him the following areas of consideration. i believe that the power sought to be exercised by us. in the senate. in this bill. as we restrain the expenditure of federal funds in the exercise of federal authority. as we are a separate branch of the government insofar as we control government departments and government expenditures. is constitutional. i have some doubts. myself. relating to both constitutionality and public policy considerations as to that section which seeks to suspend the operation of court orders for a year. or 16 months if we take it from today. but. as a practical matter. the issues raised in pertinent cases will probably  be fully resolved in those 16 months. but the important thing i would like to point out to the senator is that i believe we will be marking a new departure in the busing field and believe we will be laying down  only guidelines. but rules of fairness. the most critical rule of fairness that we are laying down. and which is taken out of the swann case. is that busing shall  significantly impinge on the educational process. that means. as it is  spelled out in the amendment.  only the educational process as it affects the child being bused. but the educational process as it affects the school to which he is bused. that is. to me. the most significant aspect of this amendment and is to my mind the most substantive answer to what has been troubling people who have been so deeply exercised about busing. for those reasons. i believe that this amendment as finally drafted commends itself as a temporary solution to a temporary problem. because. after all. the objective of the law is to desegregate. then we go back to busing patterns. which exist anyway. having  been ordered by the courts for 40 percent of americas children. this idea that it is some horrendous thing. i think. has been completely exploded by the hearings of the select committee on equal educational opportunity. the fact that educational progress has already taken place through desegregation involving use of busing has  been refuted and is irrefutable. since i have such emous respect for the senator from kentucky and his thinking as a constitutional lawyer and a judge. i suggest these lines of inquiry as he seeks to answer these questions about the rationale on which those. like myself. joining with the manager of the bill have proceeded with respect to this matter.
. i am moved also to make some response to this outbreak of debate on this issue which has been signaled by the senator from colorado and the senator from south dakota. the issue before the senate is  forced busing. the issue before the senate is whether the courts shall or shall  be permitted to utilize a particular remedy in given situations which require the use of that remedy. the reason i say that is that almost one is contending for amendment. we are contending for the scottmansfield amendment. the opponents of that view are contending for the griffin amendment. as i pointed out when i began today. the griffin amendment is completely regressive. it takes us back far beyond what the senator from michigan himself. in my judgment. should seek. he would strike the jurisdiction of the courts to issue any order involving busing. even to correct segregation. for years. there are cases in which black children are bused on long bus trips by white schools in order to get to black schools. the important thing is that what we are contending for is really the determination of the courts in the swann case. and asserting what is left open by the swarm case. i am  sure it is left open. but in any case it might be so construed. in the swarm case the court said where it would interfere with the childs health or welfare to be bused the child will  be bused. even if there is a need to bus to help cure segregation. the court went further and said where it impinges on the educational process of the child. busing must be limited or  required at all. the court left rather unclearalthough some think it is clear. i do whether the only impingement to be considered was impingement on the child being bused or impingement as well upon the school to which the child was being bused. what the scottmansfield amendment would do. and i think it is monumental because it goes to every single substantial complaint that has any validity. would be to state that impingement on the educational process should be double track. it involves the child being bused and the children in the school to which he is being bused. and if the white child is cxviii---377part 5
. i beg senators to listen closely. i am quite prepared. should the senator from georgia wish. to submit this amendment as a modification of his amendment. bearing in mind that our time is limited. and that all time expires at 2 oclock. the amendment as modified would read as follows: a parent or guardian of a child. or parents or guardians of children similarly situated. transported to a public school in accordance with a court order. may seek to reopen or intervene in the further implementation of such court order. currently in effect. if the time or distance of travel is so great as to risk the health of the student. such reopening or intervention will also lie if the event of such a court order is alleged to be significantly. to impinge on the quality of his or her educational processes. further. such parent or guardian shall have the right to seek to reopen or to intervene as a class in respect of such a busing plan on behalf of such or student and all other students similarly affected thereby."
. 10 republican senators have issued a statement commemorating the 18th anniversary of the supreme court school desegregation decision. inasmuch as i think it is so important. especially coming today when we have just gone through a very trying conference on the higher education bill which dealt with this particular issue to some extent. and from which i have derived considerable concern about its future. i take the liberty of reading to the senate the declaration issued today by senators brooke. case. hatfield. javits.
the managers in the conference. in commenting on the question of the broomfield amendment. say the following in their report: the house amendment provided that withstanding any other law or provision of law. in the case of any order on the part of any united states district court which requires the transfer or transportation of any student or students from any school attendance area prescribed by competent state or local authority for the purposes of achieving a balance among students with respect to race. sex. religion. or socioecoic status. the effectiveness of such order shall be postponed until all appeals in connection with such order have been exhausted or. in the event appeals are taken. until the time for such appeals has expired. an identical provision was contained in the senate bill but is applicable only to court orders requiring transportation of students between local educational agencies or consolidation of two or more such agencies. the senate amendment provides that the section shall expire at midnight on june 30. 1973. the conference agreement contains the precise language of the house amendment and provides that this section shall expire midnight january 1. 1974. this section does  authorize the reopening of final orders. however. appealable orders are considered to be within the scope of this amendment. the conferees are hopeful that the judiciary will take such action as may be necessary to expedite the resolution of the issues subject to this section
 to the congress on march 18. besides being unwise policy it will halt any significant further school desegregation required to correct unlawful segregation. also. i believe this legislation is likely to prove to be unconstitutional. the association of the bar of the city of new york represents as outstanding a collection of legal talent as can be found anywhere in the nation. i have received from the association a report titled "the administrations antibusing legislation." compiled by its committees on federal legislation and civil rights. this report concludes. after careful aid thorough analyses. that the proposed legislation is indeed unconstitutional. i ask unanimous consent that the report together with the names of the members of the committees be printed in the record.
. this is. indeed. an extremely difficult and extremely vexing subject. personally i believe that the amount of controversy in the public doman. except in some areas like that of the senator from michigan . has been very much overblown. however. etheless. senators have to respond to what they consider to be their primary duty. but the sensitivity of the desegregation of the american school system where it is unconstitutionally segregatedand the incidents in the case of busing is a factorhowever congress may decide that issue. certainly is  going to be decided in justice to the issue.
can the senator perhaps help us with this pointthe difference between racial balance and desegregation. as the senator has iced. and as i have iced. those who would be the proponents of this kind of a measure are constantly using and invoking the term "busing for racial balance." as contrasted with just mentioning the fact of busing in the context in which we are debating it. that is. busing ordered to correct unlawful and unconstitutional segregation of school systems.
as to the black families who do  want their childred bused. certainly one want his children bused. but the question is would they rather have their children bused and get a decent education. or  bused and get a secondclass education. that has been dealt with by the supreme court. there have been many arguments and cases about these facts which the senator from th carolina gave us for this very reason. the question was  and/or questionjust "do you like your children bused." of course. they do . one does. they have long experience with busing. but that is reason why. in the interest of the nation. we should throw out what took so long to get recognition of. and that is what this amendment would do. i say to the constitutionalists that this would cancel out in one amendment of a few lines every court decree based on school desegregation which deals with the busing question as an aid to enforcing the law. what is the busing clout. it is only to make them obey the law. it is done to obey the law. yet we would throw it out because we.  the president. decide the places where we are going to save on gas. it is most improvident. and i hope the senate will reject it.
. i point out that that is precisely what the freedom of choice plan does. and i hope it will be rejected.  as to the gurney amendment: it is aalous to me that on the 20th anniversary of brown. and after the hard work at compromise. which seems to be working in respect to public school desegregation. and busing as an incident to it. that we should  upset the applecart and endanger in a very serious way. at a very bad time. race relations and social relations in our country. and beyond that. which is serious indeed. portentous in terms of our whole land. there is a proposal that most of the people who are concerned about busing have cases that are in midcareer at this time. and the tailoring of individual cases. in my judgment. has worked out to be the best way. and certainly. to me. has appeared to be in the highest interest of the country and the best plan for the future of the country as well. that is the way we are trying to stratify ourselves in this amendment. in addition. we put ourselves in danger of a confrontation with the court and the many sections of the country. which could be very harmful on a procedural point. there will be. whenever the senate wishes itand that will be next monday or tuesdayan opportunity to take the entire house bill which contains that part. it is a total package and involves this amendment. it does seem to me to be somewhat improvident to take out this part of the package and try to legislate it. also it is very. very serious in respect of the matter we are discussing here. a tremendous structure has been built up in the country. let us remember that as one of the devices in this amendment. there is a tremendous tranquillity that has been built up in many areas of the country where this system has worked out satisfactorily. . in pursuit of a single bill. we are expected to throw that into the discard. i could  think of anything more improvident in the interest of america. and a more highly volatile subject. than to throw into the discard everything that people have worked hard for. and geared themselves up for in terms of equality. that is strictly upon the application of one plaintiff. it seems to me to be the height of improvidence. i hope very much that the senator does  do it.
s eisenhower. kennedy. johnson. and nixon. but heretofore have  been enacted by the congress. further. the administration can point to the adoption of a broad consolidation of categorical federal education aid programs. in this connection. the conference followed the pattern of the house bill which was closest to the administrations proposals. in addition. h.r. 69 contains alterations to the title i. esea formula urged by the administration. principally the socalled orshansky formula for a flexible definition of poverty. this. too. is a major change. as has been the case in past years. the education bill  before us is a bipartisan measure composed of provisions contributed by miity members as well as those of the majority.these provisions include contributions by committee members and also floor amendments by committee miity senators. included among these. for example. is the mathias amendment for the education of handicapped children. and the buckley amendment for the protection of pupil rights. provisions sponsored by senators hansen. helms. and cook. among others. are included in the final bill. and senator brookes amendment on counsel fees had a material effect on the bills final form. major contributions by miity members of the committee include the following: a new program for bilingual vocational training by senator dominick for persons of limited englishspeaking ability who have dropped out of school or finished secondary schooling found in section 841. grants for states to develop plans for equalization of educational expenditures between areas within the state. authored by senator sciwfeiker. and found in section 842. senator bealls provisions for reading improvement contained in title vii. and senator staffords provision for the handicapped in the section 406 career education program. i take particular satisfaction in the provisions for gifted and talented childrensection 404. adult educationpart a of title vii. and the "basket" of pilot plant programs in title iv which i authored. a complete list of miity committee contributions is found on page 572 of senate report 93763. most of these provisions in the senate version of the bill were retained in the final version of the measure. i should like to make reference to provisions particularly affecting my own state of new york and other urbanized and industrialized states. while there is especial concern as to the new title i formula as it affects local educational agencies which especially disadvantages urbanized and industrial states. this is balanced in some partalbeit  nearly eghby the other provisions. as follows: first. inclusion in payments under the impact aid programpublic law 874of children living in public housing. second. retention of the bayh amendment providing for an authorization of $15.7 million to bring up to 90 percent hold harmless those local educational agencies suffering a diminution in title ia funding. third. retention of part bstate incentive grantsof title i as  written in law. fourth. retention of the senate provision for part c for areas with the heaviest concentrations of disadvantaged children for fiscal year 1975. fifth. adoption of a 100percent hold harmless for title i state agency programs for handicapped and other institutionalized children. finally. i should like to refer to title ii of the bill pertaining to the issue of .busing. i withheld discussion of this provision until last because i wish to stress that. despite headlines to the contrary. h.r. 69 isand always has beenan education bill rather than a busing bill. busing occupies really only a small portion in this legislation although it occupies a major portion of the news stories concerning it. while i have my own personal doubts about the constitutionality of either the house or senate language. both of which attempted to restrict the courts in their efforts to desegregate public schools. the house position was insistent and endorsed by that body in three successive votes. to instruct their conferees. each by a margin of better than 2 to 1. bearing that in mind. i think the compromise language should be acceptable to both bodies. the house bill. you will recall. would have provided for automatic reopeners "of all existing busing orders  in compliance with the guidelines of the bill. this. we felt was disruptive to the point of being very dangerous. and we are pleased that the house conferees accepted our provision. as to the house provision allowing termination of court orders involving transportation upon a showing that a freedomofchoice system was in operation. that section  allows it but that such motions shall be granted only if the school district is presently in compliance and if the judge specifically finds that such compliance will continue. essentially the final language of the bill preserves the senate language which conditions future court actions on a showing that the fifth or fourteenth amendment has been complied withthat is. the courts are only bound to follow the guidelines set forth in the bill if these rights would  be infringed.
 i beg the senate to listen to this. i am very sympathetic to senator beall. and i will help him. matter how the vote goes. let t us listen to this amendment: e t provided further. that e of the funds contained herein shall be used to compel any d school system. as a condition for receiving grants and other benefits. to participate in t] any pilot investigation of the problems of discrimination in disciplinary action. that is the essential quote. that is essentially a part of the whole which we dealt with in the helms amendment if anything. it is even worse. because the d helms amendment deals with busing. d this deals with discrimination in disci- e plinary actions. e to take an action such as this. just a t blind shot. because a member has had problems with the agency. whereas the mal way in which we deal with those problems is by bringing the weight of the committee to bear upon that agency. it seems to me is unwise. and that is the point i tried very hard to make with senator beall. i regret that we are compelled to vote on this matter. but we are. every member has a right to offer any amendment he chooses. it is a blind shot. considering the range of problems which come under discrimination. here is one that has hing to do with busing. this is a deeply held question of how we shall discipline children in schools. whether there should be any discrimination in such disciplinary proceeding. and if there is. we certainly want to safeguard that correction. rather than to go for this amendment. which lets it go scotfree. hout even an opportunity to look into o while i appreciate very much senr bealls view. i fully concur with iator magnuson that this is an imtant civil rights vote. and i shall vote uinst the amendment.
these include as priorities to transportation plans the following: realinement of school districts. pairing school districts. restructuring grade level grouping at several schools. construction of new schools or closing inferior ones and establishing magnet schools. however. in a case that all these solutions have been examined and determined by the responsible agency or court with competent jurisdiction to be incapable of delivering a required remedy to illegal segregation. the court or agency is permitted to grant other remedies. including transportation of students. . i believe the restrictions included in h.r. 8069 will have a limited impact because the provision of public law 93380 have already limited the imposition of transportation solutions in the manner i have described. in addition. the major school busing plans which have been ordered are the results of federal courts acting to protect the constitutional rights of children to an equal educational opportunity. of course. the provisions of h.r. 8069 can alter these constitutional rights. because the antibusing provision may restrict civil rights enforcement. even in a limited way. i oppose the provisions. in casting my vote. i must point out to my colleagues the added illadvised antibusing provisions which will restrict the proper and necessary activities of the federal government in insuring the civil rights of all americans. exhibrr 1 pl 93380trrle iiequal educational op-
. frequently statements on the floor of congress or in the news convey the impression that busing is an immediate nationwide problem of immense proportions. speeches and editorials dence the tendency of the federal courts to run the nations schools. if we do  act quickly. we are warned. local control of the schools will be fatally eroded. everyone ks of the same few cases. but rarely does anyone attempt to summarize the sum total of activity in the federal courts. recently we asked the civil rights division of the justice department to report on the number of desegregation plans expected for the coming school year. the nature and extent of other pending school litigation in the federal courts. and the full record of justice department urban litigation since the mid1960s. the report shows that among the many scores of urban systems. only five can expect major new desegregation orders to be implemented this fall and there are only seven more cases in the early litigation stages. the justice department has filed only two such new cases since 1972 and private litigants are experiencing grave problems in managing even the small number of cases already filed. many of the cases consume years in the courts before anything happens. sometimes as much as a decade passes before an order is issued and implemented. some of the most important cases are  in the federal courts at all. the los angeles and philadelphia cases are being contested in state courts under state law. in several states. education officials are pressing for desegregation of small school systems. the following justice department data demonstrates that the role of the federal courts had been far more modest than usually described. urban school desegregation activity peaked after the 1971 swann decision. but its influence was largely limited to the southern and border states. across the th there were only two new federal court plans implemented in the fall of 1975 and only three more expected this fall. desegregation is coming very slowly. in a very limited number of districts. and there is sign of growing momentum. this record demonstrates that descriptions of the role of the federal courts. used to justify proposed limitations on court powers over desegregation are grossly misleading. i ask unanimous consent that this data be placed in the record.
. when the supreme court upheld a court order requiring countywide busing in the 1971 charlotte case. the way was open for the desegregation of a number of southern cities schools. and the initiation of a serious drive against de jure segregation in the th. charlotte was the first major american school district to experience largescale busing that produced approximately proportional numbers of blacks and whites in virtually every school of a large metropolitan area. the program began amid a huge national controversy and in the face of organized and active local opposition. almost 5 years later. problems remain but the city appears to have made a remarkable adaptation to this farreaching educational change. in a tribute to the good faith of local officials. the federal district court has  withdrawn from active supervision of the local schools. even u.s. news & world report. a consistent critic of busing. has pointed out the change. in its april 5. 1976. special section. "are all big cities doomed." the magazine points to charlotte as one of four cities "on the way up." one basic reason. it says. is the citys resolution of its school problem: increasingly seen as a boon to the city is charlottes desegregation program. one of the toughest in the nation and employing massive courtordered busing. the success and increasing stability of the plan means that charlotte does  face a steadily expanding "ghetto" school system within the central city. schools that would tend to accelerate racial concentration and middle class departure from the central city. charlottes story has great importance for all of us as we think about the future of desegregated education and what it means to our cities. members of the senate will be interested in the appended recent report on charlotte by john egerton. one of the most experienced southern journalists  covering the school issue. bart barnes washington post story on the opening of charlottes school year reflects the growing acceptance of the plan. it is a tribute to the good sense and decency of the people of charlotte that. while denunciations of busing ring from capitol hill and even the white house. they have found ways to make desegregated education work on a metropolitan scale. while congress involves itself in a variety of illadvised antibusing agitation. the local leaders in charlotte have been finding ways to build stable. highquality schools. perhaps the most interesting material today is a speech given recently by charlottemecklenburgs school superintendent dr. rolland w. jones. the speech assesses the very real measure of success local leaders have achieved in making the desegregation process work. one outstanding example was the intensive study of public feelings in 1974 and 1975 by the citizendirected quality education committee. which led to the design of an improved desegregation plan meeting many parent concerns. the reports from charlotte cast a new light on reports that the justice department may be considering a plan to ask the supreme court to reverse the charlotte case. this would be the kind of thoughtlessness that has continually multiplied the difficulties of local leaders seeking to sustain the constitution during the past several years. the gesture would be legally meaningless since the chance of reversal of a unanimous decision. continually reaffirmed. are nil. but. it would be destructive because it would undermine the peaceful concentration on educational issues that has come to prevail in cities like charlotte. we should be listening to the voices from charlotte and learning from them.  using essentiall busing to exploit fears in an election year. i ask unanimous consent that these intervals be printed in the record.
the whole point of the presidents message to us is that he wants the department to intervene in any suit by any party that seeksthe language of the amendment is very interesting on that. because it cuts off any possibility of departmental intervention. it says any proceeding which has as a stated objective a desegregation remedy or order which would require such transportation. so we do  even k at that point whether busing will or will  be granted. because every one of these desegregation suits could include that as one of the remedies. either imposed by the court or asked for by the party. we absolutely bar the department of justice in any such suit except one in which a school district is the party. that is a restraint on the courts which they will  accept. they are going to take suits from people who are  school districts. but it is a restraint on the attorney general. whose duty in the executive department is to advise the courts. so we have one part. but  the other. i can see how this can work.
