. under present law. a u.s. citizen and spouse may adopt a foreign child under the age of 14 or an orphan or a child whose sole or surviving parent is incapable of providing for the childand has irrevocably released the child for emigration and adoptionand the u.s. citizen may file a petition with the attorney general to have the adopted child accorded immediate relative status. if the petition is approved by the attorney general. the child. if otherwise qualified for admission as an immigrant. is admitted to the united states without regard to the numerical quota limitations of the immigration and nationality act. however. the definition of "child" for the purposes of the act is limited in section 101(b) (1) (f) to a child adopted abroad or brought over to the united states for adoption by a u.s. citizen and spouse. under this definition. if a child is adopted by only one parent. he or she would  be considered a child for purposes of the immigration law. and the parent could  petition the immediate relative status for the child. if only one parent adopts a foreign child. that child can be considered a child under section 101(b) (1) (e) of the act if the child is under 14 years of age and the parent has legal custody or resides with the child for a period of 2 years. this would require the single parent to move to the childs home country for a 2year period before becoming eligible to petition for immediate relative status for the child. the legislation i have introduced would remove the present distinction between married and unmarried u.s. citizens. it would allow an unmarried individual to adopt a foreign child and petition for immediate relative status on the same basis as a married couple. it makes other change. there is reason that an unmarried. though eligible. person should be discriminated against by making that person wait for a long period before the foreign child is able to come to the united states under the applicable quota. as long as the preference exists. it should be available to all eligible parents regardless of marital status.
