but we feel  that the amendment by the senator from new hampshire is a good compromise amendmentand one with which we certainly can live. . . one of these amendments is a prohibition against issuing citations against businesses with 10 or fewer employees the first time they are found to be in violation of the osha act. this sounds as though it is designed to go a little easier on the small businessman in enforcing the osha laws. in truth it appears to be aimed at providing a complete exemption for the firm with 10 or fewer employees. the fact is that if osha is prohibited from issuing a citation the first time it inspects a firm. it may be years or never before such a firm is inspected again. for at present oshas small compliance staff is able to inspect only about 7 percent. of the nations 5 million businesses. however. it has a longer arm than this because all companies k that under the law they can be inspected at any time without warning and that a citation may be issued for any violation found. thus. the osha inspection force. while small in numbers. has a large deterrent potential. this amendment would reduce that deterrent potential by a large measure. also the department points out that if adopted the amendment would effectively deny the protection of the osha act to employees of threefourths of the employers in the nation. and in a recent letter to a member of the house. the solicitor of the labor department states that since first instance citations are an essential ingredient of the statutory scheme of osha. "enactment of this amendment will present a serious danger that all appropriations to the department * * * for implementation of the osha act would be barred." that is a very serious charge. and one which my senate colleagues should take seriously. the other amendment prohibits enforcement of the osha law against farms with 10 or fewer employees. here again someone is trying to play a numbers game with the health and safety of american workers. we are told that this amendment. if adopted. would take 90 percent of the nations farm workers out of the osha program. yet we also are told that agriculture is the third most hazardous industry in the nation. with more than 2.000 occupational deaths and 190.000 injuries last year alone. i could go on and on. many senators want to speak. i see . but again i say that because i think the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from new hampshire is a sound compromise we would be willing to go along with that amendment. several senators addressed the chair.
