. i have very grave reservations about the measure before us. i must say that this is a consistent position for me. i have had these reservations before. and i shall certainly support the 1year extension amendment which has been offered by the senator from delaware . however. i also wish to deal with the substantive aspects of the bill before us. in a strictly public policy sense. and i point out that i speak from a double vantage point. first. i represent the principal financial market of the country. i use those worfs advisedly. because it is  necessarily the principal source of money or the richest place in the country. it is the principal financial market of the country. which has a certain asset value to our nation. as it results in the marking of the overwhelmingly large amount of domestic financing as well as foreign financing. such as it is. which is floated to investors in the united states. second. i have spent a great part of my life as a lawyer engaged in small and large financial transactions. and i k something. in a personal sense. about the banking business. upon both grounds. i have very grave concern about interest equalization tax and whether or  it is counter productive. i point out. first. that the basic justification for the bill is that it cuts private capital outflows which we are concerned about as being of a critical nature. two aspects of that matter are very important. one is the capital outflow. which is represented by overseas private investment. this it does  cut at all. because that is the subject of a voluntary restraint program which affects both the banks an6 american investors abroad. but it does affectat least. it seeks to affectthe amount of capital flotations in the country by foreigners by really putting a penalty upon them. the main objection i have to the bill is that we have  had this tax on the books for 4 years. and we have little. if anything. to show for it. except the fact that the united states has been impaired as the major capital market of the world. and there is a great asset value in being the major capital market of the world. that asset value is  only in commissions and fees which are earned for being the originator of capital issues. but also. it is an insurance in many other types of services. from advertising and public relations to more technical and engineering services. all of which introduce very worthwhile income in the united states. important to our balance of payments. because in many cases it is money which is paid here by foreign concerns in their own currency. which is of critical importance to us. i point out that our balance of payments. while we have had this interest equalization tax. has  necessarily been improved. but has gone the other way. i do  lay that at the door of the interest equalization tax. but i simply point out that it has  had any major or material effect upon the situation. in 1966. we had a balance of payments against us in the area of $1.357 million. in the first quarter of 1967. we are running at the rate of roughly $2.176 million a year. so i do  see that we have had any real result in terms of the overall aspect of the matter. which interests us. with respect to imposing this tax. aher important aspect is that it representsthe leaders of the free world in terms of capital and capital movementa restriction on trade and capital movement. therefore. it represents a great disadvantage to the system which we have sought to establish in the world since the end of world war ii. on the theory that. as the most important production center and financial center in the world. it is much better for us to have a minimum of restrictions on trade and capital movement. rather than contribute to it ourselves. as we have in this interest equalization tax. the third point isand it has been developed during the course of the debatethat the tax is being avoided on a large scale. thereby nullifying its effects. through various contrivances. including the charade about the securities being bought and sold as between americans. about which we have heard much in the course of the debate. what is interesting in that regard is that it is freely anticipated and predicted that even if we pass the provisions which are contained in the bill to tighten up on the avoidance. there is bound to be found yet aher way in which to avoid the tax. thereby contributing to nullify it to major part. next. it is clear that there is considerable opposition to the bill. the national association of security dealers is opposed. the investment bankers association is opposed. it seems to me that these are the people who are most intimately affected. and therefore would have a very interesting viewpoint with respect to what is to be done about the bill. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony given by  of the foreign committee of the national association of securities dealers. inc.. and mr. robert f. seebeck testifying for the foreign investment committee of the investment bankers association of america.
