s funds. we have had a real national emergency. holding up the entire urban renewal program. with rationing imposed on cities. restraining them from going forward with the programs which were in effect. and restraining them from proposing new programs. the $450 million annually provided by the clark amendment for the next 4 years would give us a smaller authorization. even. than tha" in the bill of the senator from alabama . however. it would have the advantage of giving it to us when we need it in the big cities. it must be compared with the budget request for $4.500 million for farm price supports. which directly benefit 11 percent of our population living on the farms. as contrasted with this request. which does  mean any money out of our pockets. essentially. considering the values it creates. and considering the fact that it is for the benefit of the majority of the american people who live in the cities. i again emphasize that this is  strictly a big city operation. onethird of all the projects  under way are located in cities with populations of less than 25.000. it is these relative newcomers to the program which were the hardest hit by failure to authorize new grant funds for urban renewal during the last session. applications are  beginning to flow in. and unless we abolish the rationing system which has been established. which blocks the money and does  allow it to be used. because it is assumed that every city will ask for its allocation. when some cities do . the result will be denials to other cities which have already used up their allocations. and find that they are far short of what is needed for established urban renewal projects. in the case of buffalo. n.y.. applications for a total of $18.200.000 were filed. in reliance on established policies. but the rationing formula. attributable to the fact that congress had  authorized the necessary funds. limited that city to $21/2 million. forcing the shelving of one project and cutting aher by twothirds. the banking and currency committee has declared itself against this rationing program. and has said that the best interests of the urban renewal program will be served by returning to the practice of issuing capital grant reservations on a firstcomefirstserved basis. there would be danger of the continuation of this unfair and thwarting rationing policy if congress were to authorize sufficient urban renewal funds at this time. i am convinced that we must have the $450 million provision which the senator from pennsylvania has proposed. this is the essence of all the evidence on this subject. from the cities. from the american municipal association. from mayors. and from everyone else who is really in a position to k. i believe this final point must be made very clear: it is  often that the people of the big cities of the united states and of the small cities come to the congress for help which is directly for their benefit. in terms of the living conditions in their own home communities. anyone who has surveyed large and small american cities must agree that the faces of our great cities are being changed by urban renewal programs. this is the most revolutionary change which has come about on the faces of american cities.
