i appreciate his concerns about new york city. as everyone here ks. i was born in new york city. i have lived there all my life except for the war years. i suppose. as they say in politics. i k where more bodies are buried as anyone in new york. but i hope very much that my beloved friend. and he ks i mean this. will realize that it is also a responsibility to see that new york lives to do all these things. and i want to tell this to the senator. because he should k this from me. and quite publicly. i think this city is suffering and is in very. very dangerous peril. its infrastructure is running down. it finds it very hard to maintain that infrastructure. as everyone ks. a city which has had the history and the difficulties which new york has had is  going to be cleaned up in the next 6 weeks. a great deal has been done. senator proxmire himself ks that. i am deeply concerned about the rather slow pace we are taking with default impending on the 30th of june and with hing in place.  the unions who were to buy securities.  the banks who were to help with the financing. and all the other ramifications. there are a long list of items that have to be put together. they are  being done. and the cement. whether we like it or . is going to be the united states. again we are facing a fundamental decision. and it is only 6 weeks away. i wish to tell senator proxmire that i do  think without u.s. help new york is going to be kept from going down the drain. and. personally. i still think it would be a great national disaster if new york city went bankrupt. it would be a great disaster in the eyes of our country and in the eyes of the world. i think we all bear. and i mean all.  just senator moynihan and me. but all. a very serious responsibility. i really am making this little speech for climactic purposes. i do  think we have quite the feeling of urgency about what needs to be done with this city. in fairness to it and to the interests which are at stake. it is the nexus of communication in the country. it is the very mirror of the united states to the world. it is what the world thinks about when it thinks about the united states. it is still the seat of finance and the stock exchange and the emous edifice of capitalism which represents this country and the power of this country. it is the center of culture and art. it is one of the greatest medical centers the world has ever kn. and i really hope very much. and senator proxmiae is a man who bears a very heavy responsibility in this matter. that all of us will be conscious of the short time and the peril in which this city stands.
