. hitler at freedoms door it was a time of crisis. the can about to roar our guest of ho took his seat on the republican side of the senate aisle where. ever since. through good times and bad he served with ho and style without flamboyance. ostentation. arrogance or cant  once has his voice been lifted in sense or to rant vermonts gift has been. insteada model to be heeded he has brought to national politics. a commonsense and wisdom always needed the pericles of putney. the voltaire of vermont hell blush at titles like that but aptness they do  want as his days in the senate dwindle down to a very precious few its both fitting and proper for us to voice a most sincere thank you when adjournment comes and session ends millions of americans who consider themselves friends with -as will wish him adieu. god speed as back to his orchards and garden his path will lead the soil. some books. a loving wife. his home sweet home a happy fate with which to close this poem.
s john adams. john quincy adams. and franklin roosevelt all have worshipped at st. pauls church. eastchester. the church was designated as a national historic site by the interior department in 1943. following a restoration which was done under the leadership of sara delaroosevelt. however money has been provided for the site. the problem  is that this historic site is in a state of ill repair. and in need of restoration. the episcopal diocese of new york. which owns st. pauls. is longer able to maintain it as an active church. however. the diocese recognizes the historic significance of the church and grounds. and is willing to donate the property to the national park service. the church would longer be used for religious purposes. there are many people in westehester county and around the country who are eager to see st. pauls protected permanently. such organizations as the society of the national shrine of the bill of rights at st. pauls church. eastchester. inc.. the knapp chapter of the daughters of the american revolution in pelham. n.y.. the eastchester historical society. the city of mount ver. the town of eastchester. and others have been actively involved in seeking to achieve preservation once dedicated as a historic site. i understand its use as a religious establishment will be ended. a companion measure has been introduced in the house by representative
