first. i should like to identify myself with the senator from oklahoma . the senator from arkansas [mr. fulbrighti. and other senators. regardless of party. who have supported the international development association. an organization which will prove to be a real milestone in our efforts to give the less developed areas of the free world an acceptable opportunity for ecoic progress. as well as to keep them enrolled with us in the world of the free. i believe the senator probably will agree that what we are doing is still  adequate to the occasion. but it will certainly help. and will enable many of these nations to realize the aspirations they had in connection with what we could  go along with in the united nations. that which was called sunfedthe special united nations fund for ecoic development. we promised at the time that we would do something constructive. and i think the present proposal certainly shows that the united states is keeping its word. consistent with this policy. in the nato parliamentarians conference. with which i have the ho to be closely identified. and in which we are working with the department of state. especially with under secretary douglas dillon. we will continue. of course. to endeavor to get the maximum effort from the other free world industrial nations in order to buttress the aid program. in aid of the movement the senator from oklahoma and the senator from arkansas have been leading. a question arose as to whether there might be an effort to include some provision in the pending measure. a provision similar to the one we recently added to the mutual security act. i refer to the provision about the hampering of the shipment of free world ships and cargoes through the suez canal. i am very glad to state to the senator from oklahoma that as matters  appear. we have every reason to depend upon the fact that that subject is happily removed from our consideration. it having been satisfactorily disposed of by agreement between representative multer. of new york. who was carrying the ball in the house. and the secretary of the treasury. indeed. i understand the committee on banking and currency in the other body today reported the bill without amendment. of course. it will be up to representative multer and the secretary of the treasury to develop whatever details need to be developed on this subject. however. i am  satisfied. and so wish to inform senators. that the subject will  figure in the bill and in the ratifying resolution which is before the senate. and also to state that i myself am indebted to my colleague from new york and to the distinguished senator from pennsylvania . who interested themselves very much in bringing about this result.
. i am deeply saddened by the death of my friend and former colleague. clarence kilburn. mr. kilburn. a veteran at his retirement in 1964 of 25 years service as a congressman. served his party and his state on numerous committees. including the gop policy committee. the house banking and currency committee. and the joint congressional ecoic committee. his ecoic expertise led him to serve as adviser to several international monetary conferences. taking him as far afield as south america and austria. his many contributions to the residents of thern new york included a long sustained effort to authorize u.s. participation in the st. lawrence seaway and power projects. he was responsible for cosponsoring the legislation which finally made this possible. an achievement he labeled the "greatest thrill" of his congressional career. i join the citizens of malone. n.y.. in extending my sympathies to his surviving family.
