. the disorders attendant upon school opening in little rock only emphasize the vital importance of demonstrating with firmness though with tact that the laws of the united states are paramount in respect to the equal opportunities guaranteed by the constitution and that we do  propose to see them nullified in any state. this does  mean the use of force. but it means the use of every means of communication. education and mediation and with a final sanction of law. preferably civil law. if all else proves ineffective. the determination of the congress to back law enforcement which is the essence of the civil rights bills therefore becomes more important than ever in serving ice on those who would seek to subvert or nullify our laws by force and violence. coercion or public disorder. and in defiance of the great majority of lawabiding americans. certainly the desegregation of schools in little rock is most modest and minimal. it should incite only concern over its limited scope rather than inciting to riot. municipal authorities who are enforcing the law are entitled to k that they are backed by the people of the united states and any officials who would defy the law should k that the people of the united states will do everything they can. practically. to see it enforced. while most of us in the united states may find ourselves preoccupied with news stories about khrushchevs visit throughout september. we can be sure that both communist newspapers and communist newspapers throughout the world. especially those in asia. africa. and the other americas. will be following on page 1 the stories on desegregation in the schools of little rock. ark.. atlanta. ga.. nashville. tenn.. and alabama. the best insurance we can have that there will be repetition of the past resistance and open. lawless defiance of u.s. court orders concerning public school desegregation. that hate bombing will be discouraged and that voting rights will be facilitated. is to be found in the enactment of a reasonable civil rights statute in the next few weeks. we need a meaningful civil rights bill. i use the word "meaningful" because there is very great danger. in view of the time schedule. that because of the pressures incident to adjournment we shall  have a meaningful civil rights bill. in fact. we do  k that we shall have a civil rights bill at all. there willand mustbe a meaningful civil rights bill enacted this year. this is agreed to by most people and is on the majority leaders list of "must" legislation. the question is how meaningful will the bill be. will it contain an acceptable substitute for part iii of the 1957 measure which would enable the u.s. attorney general to go into court to safeguard the civil rights of the individual as guaranteed under the constitution withstanding the efforts to suppress litigation by affected individuals embodied in the antibarratry statutes of at least six southern states. will the bill include a declaration recognizing that the supreme court decision against segregation in the public schools is the law of the land and should be obeyed. will it also provide technical and financial assistance from the federal government for schools attempting to desegregate despite local or state governments in opposition. and will it deal with hate bombings. this is the time schedule: in 1957. we got a civil rights bill from the house of representatives on june 18. 1957. on june 20. 1957. the senate voted  to refer the bill to the judiciary committee and put it directly on the calendar. on june 19. 1957. 24 days of debate started in the senate and ended on august 7. 1957all of these dates are  behind us this year. on august 27. 1957. the house took up the senate amendments and final senate concurrence took place on august 29. 1957. the next day the congress adjourned. from present appearances and clear indications. of what is at the very least a slowdown in the judiciary committee. we will be faced at best with some kind of civil rights bill at the very end of this session under the tremendous pressure that builds up for adjournmentand what is bound to be an unsatisfactory result for such a bill. i can forget what happened to the supporters of adequate foreign aid appropriations last yearthey were faced with the foreign aid appropriation bill on the very last day of the session and withstanding the senate votes they took a bad and immediate beating in the conference and within a few hours had substantially undone everything they voted for. this is the threat which faces civil rights this year and civilrights legislation advocates had best understand it clearly. starting right . at worst the senate is unlikely to have a civil rights bill before it at all unless a motion is made to discharge the judiciary committee from further consideration of the subject. or such legislation is added onto aher measure. under these circumstances. to be realistic. it seems clear to me that such action is clearly indicated  and is a function of the leadership. i made a similar speech on civil rights here on the senate floor on july 1. 1959hing whatever has happened since to advance realistically the consideration of civil rights legislation here. hence this needs to be said again and again by me and i hope very much by others similarly interested. the responsibility for giving us a timely opportunity to act on civil rights legislation at this session is that of the leadership of the majoritythat is the point which must be clearly before the country. the obligation for bringing a civil rights bill before us is an obligation of the majority leadership. what we do about it and the nature of civil rights legislation after we have the bill is a bipartisan responsibility. i believe that in the present situation. that point had better be crystal clear. hence i make it again today.
