 nixon advocated an insistence by the united states in international treaties that the parties be bound to the adjudication of disputes arising under them. this is as sound  as it was then. it is also time for us to reexamine our national posture on the connally reservation. we must discuss this matter openly and in a spirit of reason. this provision has raised doubts about u.s. adherence to the principles of international law and has provided other nations with an excuse to avoid its jurisdiction. these are only a few of the steps we can take to reaffirm our tradition of respect for the rule of law in the family of nations. i am proud that the republican party has historically upheld this principle and i believe that our party has a great opportunity and a unique responsibility to apply these principles to the perplexing problems that face us today. i am  unaware of the difficulties we face in achieving the world rule of law long advocated by distinguished american leaders. the refusal of both communist china and france to ratify the test ban treaty indicates that both communism and doctrinaire nationalism will be obstacles to the achievement of world order. yet we must persevere. for the goal of our foreign policy is le and majestic. that goal. as i see it. is to help create an environment on this earth in which men can live in liberty with an opportunity to achieve their highest spiritual. cultural. social. ecoic. and political aspirations. this is the goal for which men of massachusetts answered the call of paul revere and the goal for which american men fought and died in two world wars and in korea. they are dying for it right  in the mud of vietnam. we can do less than to exert our every effort toward the application of the fundamental ideals of liberty and justice to the problems of mankind.
. i am pleased to introduce legislation today with senator cohen and senator murkowski to establish a commercial fishing industry vessel advisory committee. the primary purpose of this legislation is to establish a committee to address the problem of escalating insurance rates for fishing vessels. protection and indemnity [p&i] insurance preritiums have risen from 25 percent to as much as several hundred percent for vessels in some fisheries. as insurance becomes increasingly unaffordable. fishing vessels are either going without insurance or are going out of business. the jones act permits fishing vessel crewmen and seamen to sue vessel owners for negligence and unseaworthiness when an accident occurs aboard ship. unlike most other industries in which workers are covered by workmens compensation. fishermen are covered through the boat owners policy. thus. fishermen go to court to collect. resulting in expensive settlements. the number and size of jury awards has escalated in recent years. court settlements have been as high as several hundred thousarid dollars for correctable occupational injuries. theinsurance companies are longer able to adequately predict the risks or the dollar awards in the fishing industry. the damage award for the same injury before two different juries often varies by a factor of 10. because there can be actuarial basis for these awards. insurance of fishing vessels has become increasingly risky and unprofitable. some insurance companies are experiencing loss ratios which exceed 100 percent. the causes of the marine insurance problem are complex and can- be solely attributed to the escalating jury awards. the problem is also aggravated by inadequate vessel and crew safety. improper vessel design. personnel qualifications. fishery management regulations. and the general decline in the profitability of the insurance industry. many insurance companies will longer write policies for the commercial fishing industry. last year there were. 10 to 15 domestic underwriters providing marine insurance. . only four u.s. companies cover the nations maritime fleet. many fishing vessels are either unable to obtain insurance or obtain it at such a high premium. that profitability and competitiveness are severely affected. despite evidence of a problem in marine insurance in the fishing industry. a comprehensive solution has  been .found. many solutions have. focused on improved fishing vessel safety regulations. however. improving safety will  guarantee lower insurance premiums. the problem may be rooted in the structure of the current insurance liability and compensation system. in addition to uncertainty over the cause of the problem. there still exists a need to better understand and document the nature of casualties occurring at sea. therefore. a comprehensive study of these problems. with active participation of all parties. is necessary in order to bring the cost of insurance to affordable levels and still provide fair compensation for injured fishermen. the bill i am introducing today provides for a commercial fishing vessel advisory committee to address- these problems. the comriittee will be responsible for. advising and making recommendations to the coast guard on matters relating to fishing vessel safety and insurance. this issue falls within the coast guards jurisdiction over commercial vessel safety. their objective has been to minimize deaths. personal injuries. property loss or damage associated with design. construction. manning of merchant vessels. and handling of hazardous cargoes. the committee will consist of 17 members. including individuals from the fishing industry and the insurance industry. other representatives will inchide a naval architect/marine surveyor. a manufacturer of fishing vessel equipment. and an individual connected with education or training in vessel safety. the committee shall operate for 6 years and can be extended by congress. with this legislation. representatives from both the fishing and insurance industries will work together to develop a solution to the marine insurance problem. without such a forum. it is unlikely that a comprehensive solution will be agreed upon. in a statement before the house subcommittee on merchant marine. mr. dennis nixon. coordinator of the graduate marine affairs program at the university of rhode island. said: "if the problem is allowed to simply work itself out once again. many fishermen will be facing the same grim scenario of mortgage foreclosures that family farmers presented to you." the ones who will suffer from the increased insurance premiums will be the fishermen. insurance companies can raise their premiums or get out of the marine insurance market. given the current competitive market. fishermen can pass along the increased cost of insurance. fishermen can choose to go without insurance or reduce their profits. perhaps to the point of bankruptcy. this legislation is intended to result in a solution to the marine insurance problem. a more cooperative relationship between the fishing and insurance industries. and improved fishing vessel safety. the atlantic offshore fishermens association responded to this legislation by saying: "we feel that this proposal could be. a step in the right direction" and "could increase the participation of the commercial fishing industry in the formation of new policies." since passage of the fisheries conservation and management act of 1976. total harvests in the united states has increased 85 percent: from 5.3 billion pounds to 9.8 billion pounds. if our fishing industry is to continue to grow and prosper. we must find a way to provide adequate insurance protection at affordable rates for our fishing vessels. this legislation represents a first step toward a solution to the marine insurance problem. i hope the senate will give the matter expeditious and favorable consideration.o by mr. stafford: 8. 1761. a bill to amend the atomic energy act of 1954. as amended. to establish a comprehensive. equitable. reliable. and efficient mechanism for full compensation of the public in the event of an accident arising out of activities of the nuclear regulatory commission licensees or undertaken pursuant to the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 involving nuclear materials. to the committee on environment and public works.
. i am pleased to introduce legislation today with senator cohen and senator murkowski to establish a commercial fishing industry vessel advisory committee. the primary purpose of this legislation is to establish a committee to address the problem of escalating insurance rates for fishing vessels. protection and indemnity [p&i] insurance preritiums have risen from 25 percent to as much as several hundred percent for vessels in some fisheries. as insurance becomes increasingly unaffordable. fishing vessels are either going without insurance or are going out of business. the jones act permits fishing vessel crewmen and seamen to sue vessel owners for negligence and unseaworthiness when an accident occurs aboard ship. unlike most other industries in which workers are covered by workmens compensation. fishermen are covered through the boat owners policy. thus. fishermen go to court to collect. resulting in expensive settlements. the number and size of jury awards has escalated in recent years. court settlements have been as high as several hundred thousarid dollars for correctable occupational injuries. theinsurance companies are longer able to adequately predict the risks or the dollar awards in the fishing industry. the damage award for the same injury before two different juries often varies by a factor of 10. because there can be actuarial basis for these awards. insurance of fishing vessels has become increasingly risky and unprofitable. some insurance companies are experiencing loss ratios which exceed 100 percent. the causes of the marine insurance problem are complex and can- be solely attributed to the escalating jury awards. the problem is also aggravated by inadequate vessel and crew safety. improper vessel design. personnel qualifications. fishery management regulations. and the general decline in the profitability of the insurance industry. many insurance companies will longer write policies for the commercial fishing industry. last year there were. 10 to 15 domestic underwriters providing marine insurance. . only four u.s. companies cover the nations maritime fleet. many fishing vessels are either unable to obtain insurance or obtain it at such a high premium. that profitability and competitiveness are severely affected. despite evidence of a problem in marine insurance in the fishing industry. a comprehensive solution has  been .found. many solutions have. focused on improved fishing vessel safety regulations. however. improving safety will  guarantee lower insurance premiums. the problem may be rooted in the structure of the current insurance liability and compensation system. in addition to uncertainty over the cause of the problem. there still exists a need to better understand and document the nature of casualties occurring at sea. therefore. a comprehensive study of these problems. with active participation of all parties. is necessary in order to bring the cost of insurance to affordable levels and still provide fair compensation for injured fishermen. the bill i am introducing today provides for a commercial fishing vessel advisory committee to address- these problems. the comriittee will be responsible for. advising and making recommendations to the coast guard on matters relating to fishing vessel safety and insurance. this issue falls within the coast guards jurisdiction over commercial vessel safety. their objective has been to minimize deaths. personal injuries. property loss or damage associated with design. construction. manning of merchant vessels. and handling of hazardous cargoes. the committee will consist of 17 members. including individuals from the fishing industry and the insurance industry. other representatives will inchide a naval architect/marine surveyor. a manufacturer of fishing vessel equipment. and an individual connected with education or training in vessel safety. the committee shall operate for 6 years and can be extended by congress. with this legislation. representatives from both the fishing and insurance industries will work together to develop a solution to the marine insurance problem. without such a forum. it is unlikely that a comprehensive solution will be agreed upon. in a statement before the house subcommittee on merchant marine. mr. dennis nixon. coordinator of the graduate marine affairs program at the university of rhode island. said: "if the problem is allowed to simply work itself out once again. many fishermen will be facing the same grim scenario of mortgage foreclosures that family farmers presented to you." the ones who will suffer from the increased insurance premiums will be the fishermen. insurance companies can raise their premiums or get out of the marine insurance market. given the current competitive market. fishermen can pass along the increased cost of insurance. fishermen can choose to go without insurance or reduce their profits. perhaps to the point of bankruptcy. this legislation is intended to result in a solution to the marine insurance problem. a more cooperative relationship between the fishing and insurance industries. and improved fishing vessel safety. the atlantic offshore fishermens association responded to this legislation by saying: "we feel that this proposal could be. a step in the right direction" and "could increase the participation of the commercial fishing industry in the formation of new policies." since passage of the fisheries conservation and management act of 1976. total harvests in the united states has increased 85 percent: from 5.3 billion pounds to 9.8 billion pounds. if our fishing industry is to continue to grow and prosper. we must find a way to provide adequate insurance protection at affordable rates for our fishing vessels. this legislation represents a first step toward a solution to the marine insurance problem. i hope the senate will give the matter expeditious and favorable consideration.o by mr. stafford: 8. 1761. a bill to amend the atomic energy act of 1954. as amended. to establish a comprehensive. equitable. reliable. and efficient mechanism for full compensation of the public in the event of an accident arising out of activities of the nuclear regulatory commission licensees or undertaken pursuant to the nuclear waste policy act of 1982 involving nuclear materials. to the committee on environment and public works.
madam president. i thank the chairman of our subcommittee of the environment and public works committee. senator mitchell. for the splendid leadership that he gave on this matter and of course a host of other matters that he deals with as chairman of the environmental protection subcommittee of the environment committee. senator mitchell is a giant in all of these areas. and i think  only those of us here in the senate but across the nation owe senator mitchell a deep debt of gratitude for the terrific job he does in all of these environmental concerns. madam president. as senator mitchell mentioned. this bill that we bring to you today on the conference report is basically the bill that we passed in the senate in july with one major exception. and that major exception is the addition of the housepassed title on elephants. so since we discussed the other provisions of the legislation in july. and senator mitchell has touched on them here today. i thought i would briefly discuss what we have done in connection with the protection of the elephants. but before doing that. i would mention that this overall endangered species legislation is really extraordinary. and it started in the early seventies. and thank goodness we have it on our books today. it is  perl:ect. but each year or each authorization. and as the distinguished chairman. the manager of the bill. mentioned we have  reauthorized this  for some 6 years. but we have brought out a bill that is stronger than the previous legislation. so each year we are able to move forward. what have we done here. well. we have added a new requirement for the monitoring of the species that are awaiting listing as either threatened or endangered. we increase the laws protection of plants by making it a crime to destroy or to remove endangered plants from federal or private property. third. we impose civil and criminal penalties for violators of the act. these are increased. a new program is added to monitor species that have recovered and have been removed from the list of endangered or threatened species. let me just briefly talk about the african elephant conservation portions of this bill. in africa. 10 years ago there were 1.5 million elephants. . 10 years later. there are  a million and a half elephants. there are 750.000. seven hundred fifty thousand is still a lot of elephants. but when you think that this herd has been cut from a million and a half to september 15. 1988 con. 750.000 exactly by 50 percent. and unless something is done. that drastic decline is going to continue. this bill came from the house. we would have passed it here but because of procedural reasons it originated in the house. and we adopted their version. i would like to pay tribute to congressman tony beilenson who has been a champion of the elephant cause. and congressman gerry studds who led the effort in getting this approved on august 8. that billthat is. the elephant portionwas unanimously supported by a bipartisan group of environmentalists. wildlife conservations. and hunters. hunters sometimes are unfairly tarnished. but it is the hunters who were deeply concerned about many conservation activities and particularly with the preservation of the african elephant. all of them believe that there is an essential step which may be our only chance to preserve that magnificent species. the african elephant. so their interest in this area laid the groundwork for action by the endangered species act conferees. and i am proud to present this bill for senate approval today. the thesis is that all of us all over the worldbut we are talking about the united states where. of course. we have elephantshave to join in africas efforts to save the elephant. why is this decline occurring. is it habitat.  they are being shot and destroyed because of the ivory. hunting elephants for ivory is a centuriesold business. in recent years. however. the slaughter of the elephant has accelerated. it can be traced directly to the price of ivory which  stands at approximately $150 a pound. in countries where the annual per capita income is sometimes in the neighborhood of $200. $300. or $400 a year. you can understand why in rural africa so many natives have flocked to the profitable and illegal poaching of elephants. as a major importer of ivory the united states must take a lead in developing a solution to this decline in the african elephant. our fish and wildlife service in the united states has already pledged its support for a national effort that will raise up to $4 million in this nation for african elephant conservation. but more needs to be done. as a federally designated threatened specieswe in this country have designated the african elephant as a threatened species. and it is so listed under the united nations convention on international trade in endangered species. the socalled cites agreementafrican elephants and their products. namely the ivory. can lawfully be traded under certain conditions. additional controls are needed. the african land mass is so great that it is impossible to police the area and directly protect the threatened elephant population. we just do  have the manpower to cover all of africa to protect these elephants from the poaching. but we can deal with the laws of supply and demand. namely the demand. as a substitute. we must monitor trade in elephant products more closely. the protection of african elephants is  just an african concern. it is a global concern. so this act was crafted to prohibit the importation into the united states of ivory that originates from the socalled elephantpoaching nations. there are certain nations over there in africa that are doing a good job. there are certain nations that are . i am talking in connection with the preservation of the elephant. and policing the prohibitions against poaching. the legislation would ban the importation of ivory from countries that do  have adequate programs as determined by our secretary of the interior. in addition. the conservation act that we are addressing takes care of one of the most serious cases of elephant decline by banning the importation of ivory from intermediate area countries unless those countries can certify that the ivory was derived from legal sources. what happens is ivory comes in from countries that do  have any elephants at all. and what we have done is set up a tracking system. and if they can certify that the ivory came from a country where it is legal to trade in it. and it is approved. then the importation is illegal in this nation. it calls for the establishment of an african elephant conservation fund which will authorize financial support for african countries to assist them in managing their elephant populations. and eliminating poaching. this legislation represents a balanced approach to the elephant decline. the focus is  on sanctions. it is on incentives. it in way prohibits the continued importation of ivory from nations that are effectively protecting their elephant populations. rather. the legislation underscores the problems of the herd decline. and establishes a program for africanamerican cooperation which is really the way to do it. we do  want to be big brother telling them what to do incurring their resentment. we want to be helpful to them in what they have set out to do. so there it is. madam president. i think it is a magnificent step forward. we will monitor this as we go along in the years to come. and see how it works. maybe we should take stiffer measures. but this is an excellent step forward.
if i might finish. please. urban smog would undermine the efforts we made. it would shield new industries from new regulations and waive current enforcement provisions for criminal violations of the law. just listen to this one. . i wonder if the sponsors of the amendment are totally aware of what this does. in the act. we provided that a plant that emits air toxics in a sum total of 25 tons. or 10 tons of a single air toxic. is subject- to these regulations. is subject to mact. maximum achievable -controlled techogy. what. this amendment does. it. pushes that up to 100 tons. if youare in it less than 100 tons. you will get special dis pensation. special rules. and that is to take care of socalled small business.
so they do  like the decision of the administrative law judge. they drag this out and they go to the u.s. district court. everybody.in this chamber ks what going to the u.s. district court means. so there is a trial. a full trial. here we are trying to stop some polluting. then they do  like the decision there. so what does the company do. 7it .goes to -the court of appeals. is that any way to clean up the environment. delay. delay. delay.. and i would like the proponents of this amendment to explain why on earth there has to be these- kind of delays- when what is being effected is harm to the environment and harm to public health. let us go to the next one: citizen suits. . citizen suits are  anything new to this chamber or to environmental law. we permit them in the clean water act. we permit them in the superfund. we permit them in rcra. citizen suits are a standard environmentallaw action. why. because it seemed important to us in the environment committee. and it seemed important to -the u.s. senate and to the u.s. house of representatives and the president of the united states. and indeed the one who * signed. superfund rcra. and clean wateri will take back clean water. because the president did rot agree. he did  disagree on this point. he disagreed on the total money cost of the clean water act. :. • but there was objection from any of those presidents. -and certainly one will accuse our last president of being a wildeyed liberal ..he accepted *every single one of those proposals involving citizen suits who are citizens. they are citizens .like you and me we live downstream from some polluter and we want to do something about the pollution. but there are.also other organizations that make the nation hew to our environmental laws•and i am talking. the natural resources. defense council i am" talking the environmental defense fund. i .am talking the wilderness so-. ciety. they come in and bring "suit.. • . what does this amendriient provide for.. this amendment .says that$s3176 mardh 26. 1990 co when a citizenbrings suit. that just as he reachesthe great point of victoryhow the -senator justifies this is beyond mejust as he reaches the great point of victory. the government can step in and say. "step side. citizen. we are taking over." and the citizen is longer in charge. of the case. you might say. well. what difference does that make. the government is stepping in. they arerunning the show. it makes a lot of difference. frequently-. these organizations i mentioned. or even the individual who is involved. do  want the fine to go to the federal government as it would when the government is involved. they do  want it to go into the federal treasury. they want those funds to be used for what we call environmental mitigation. to try and straighten out the mess that is made. a perfectly justifiable use of the funds. that is  permitted. or that could well be  permitted under this peculiar provision that the senator has in his amendment. . . . he says at any -point the government can step in. muscle aside the citizen. the citizen who has done all- the work. brought the case right up to the end. and at the last minute. -in comes big brother and takes over for the federal government. that is the first strange provision he has in here dealing with citizen suits. the next one is as follows. listen to this possibility. a citizen has a polluter upstream from him. polluting the air. the citizen is sick and tired of it. and he wants that pollution stopped. : under the law. he has to go to that plant and give that plant 60 days ice. he has to say. "i am going to sue you if you. do  straighten up your act." so the polluter. who has beendoing this for a year and. ahalf. stops. so the citizen can bring the suit because under this amendment. he is  permitted to.sue. for past damages. five more minutes. if i may.
i thank the senator. madam president i do wish to stress the problems that are raised by this legislation. i would return once again to the illustration that i previously used. if you look carefully on page 4 of the legislation submitted. it says: "any area -of -agricultural land * * * determined to be exempt from the requirements of this subtitle"--namely. exempt from the socalled swampbuster provisions--"shall also be exempt from" the provisions of section 404. therefore. it would seem to me to be very clear that if one wishes to grow sugarcane in the everglades. draining of those everglades for the purpose of growing sugarcane would be exempt from the provisions of section 404. this is a very. very dramatic step that we are undertaking here. perhaps without fully recognizing it. i would also like to point out aher problem raised by the senators provision. as you k. under section 404. the corps of engineers and epa can turn over to the states. those states that wish. to assume the authority under section 404. . what happens to them. take michigan. for example. michigan has accepted the authority to police under the section 404. does michigan  have to turn around and cede that authority back to the soil conservation service. that is  clear. and i can only assume they would have to. because that is what the legislation does. although it specifically does  cover the areas when it has been turned over to the states as. for example. in the situation of michigan. so. madam president. i urge my colleagues  to accept this amendment. this is accompanied by a sense of frustration which is understandable. but it just simply does  solve the problems and raises a lot more besides. i thank the chair andthank the manager.
i rise to express my views on the second degree amendment offered -by senator bumpers. i .have some significant concerns that this second degree. like the dole amendment. will result in paralysis byanalysis. while the bumpers second degree is a substantial improvement over the dole amendment. i question whether this type of amendment is necessary .at all. first. let -me express my general concerns about this entire approach. while the scope of the bumpers amendment is much more reasonable than the original amendment. it still would require that a fairly extensive takings analysis be completed whenever any federal action was likely to result in a taking this would be a costly requirement and divert significant federal resources. i question whether this amendment is necessary when the fifth amendment fully protects property rights. it is proper for the courts.  the agencies. to judge when a taking has occurred. i am also concerned that the resources for performing these takings analyses will come from the scarce resources available to protect the public health. environment and welfare. the second degree w6uld improve this situation by including reasonable exceptions and by streamlining the .required analysis. however.. it will cost money that we simply do  have. on the plus side. the second degree amendment would  -require. as in the dole amendment. agencies submit .a certification regarding their takings analyses to the attorney general. this requirement provides little protection for property owners while raising the specter of unnecessary bureaucratic delays for important federal regulations. so. striking that requirement is an improvement. in addition. the second degree amendment exempts a limited list of federal actions relating to foreign policy. military matters. law enforcement and .study and planning activities. these actions would rarely. if ever. effect a taking under the fifth amendmerit. further. ifa number of these activities were delayed due to the requirement for a takings impact assessment. united states interests would be seriously compromised. so -again. adding these exemptions is an improvement. consistent with current supreme court takings jurisprudence and: common sense.. -the second degree would require a takings impact assessment only for those actions likely to affect a taking. and  for actions which may in some way diminish the use or value of property. this will avoid redefining constitutional takings law. and reinforce the primary purpose of the legislationto enhance constitutional protection of private property rights. this change will also ensure that the government can continue to fulfill its other responsibilities to protect the public health. safety and environment. unlike the dole amendment. the second degree would  make these.internal agency analyses public. instead. agencies would be required to provide the analyses to the office .of management and budget. making these documents public would encourage takings litigation at the expense of the taxpayer. the second degree amendment would avoid the prospect .of providing a bonanza for takings lawyers rather -than protecting property rights. . i am opposed to the bumpers amendment. we are going to have a voice vote and i would like to have it ed that i voted 
s bold proposal for a new federal grant program deserves some of the credit for our presence here today. senator baucus used the 10 epa recommendations as the foundation for his bill. 8. 1547. which was introduced in october of last year. the committee held hearings on that bill and it was the starting point for the bill that is  before the senate. some parts of that bill. including new fees to be imposed on drinking water systems and criminal enforcement provisions that had been recommended by epa. generated strong opposition among officials of state and local government. because of these objections. some significant adjustments were required when the bill reached markup at the full committee. i want to applaud my colleagues on the republican side of the aisle for the help they gave us at that point in the process. although some of them preferred a much stronger dose of reform. they voted unanimously to supportthe committee process and report a reauthorization bill to the senate. the s6976 co votes by senators simpson. duren-
yes. the purpose of this statement is to establish that in one sense the new authority contained in section 1412b(5) does apply to the stage i rulemaking. as i said. we are attempting a delicate legislative task here. we are changing the statute to provide epa with explicit authority to set standards that balance risks. but we do  want the detailed provisions of this new authority to upset a specific rule of that type that has recently beeri proposed. we want to make clear that epa is authorized by the safe drinking water act. as it is amended by this bill. to issue the stage i rule. if this bill is enacted and the stage i rule is promulgated as it was proposed. one could bring a court challenge against the rule on the grounds that it wasnt authorized by the statute. at the same time. the stage i rule is  to be tested against the specific provisions of the statute to determine whether it is consistent in every respect. it may  be. so long as the final stage i rule stays within the parameters of the agreement negotiated by the parties. it is authorized by the statute as amended. the bill applies to the stage i rule because epa is given general authority to issue a rule that is consistent with the negotiated agreement. but the specific provisions of the risk balancing authorities in the new subsection 1412(b)(5) are  to be applied by epa or by the courts in determining whether the final rule is in accordance with the law. that determination is to be based on the agreement that was signed by the parties to the negotiation. hing in this bill affects the applicability of new subsection 1412(b)(5) to the stage ii rulemaking on disinfection by products. madam president. that completes everything on this side. i inform all senators. immediately following the vote on the motion to table the boxer amendment. we will then go to final passage. i ask. if proper. for the yeas and nays on final passage at this time.
 of the senate on the recommendation of the majority leader and with the concurrence of the miity leader. the chairman of the armed services committee. and the chairman of the foreign relations committee. five others would be appointed by a similar method in the house of representatives. the appointing role of the several respected members i have named gives high confidence. i believe. that the commission would have a most capable membership. together with the ample authority to assemble a senior and superior staff. such a membership could undertake a concentrated and independent evaluation. with full access to the necessary information. of the whole range of national security issues. the unique congressional appointment process also should assure that the analyses and recommendations of the commission receive serious consideration when they are eventually filed. it makes it clear from the very beginning that the responsible committees are principal agents for creating the commission and for making use of its product. each of us can think of the kind of men who could make major contributions to such an historic commission. as i have considered this matter over recent months. many eminent and qualified candidates have come to mind: such able former defense executives as thomas gates and cyrus vance. such kledgeable scientist administrators as james killian and harold brown. prominent technical and strategic analysts like thomas schelling and gordon macdonald. and numerous other distinguished individuals whose competence and balanced judgment would be recognized by the congress and the nation. an eminent group of this character and with this mission could prove invaluable in this period of grave challenge to the national security policy process. the proposed commission might well confirm the good sense of many of the current policies and proposals being advanced by the executive. others it might subject to serious challenge. the fundamental point is that this wholly independent body of respected citizens would be able to function without the specific obligations and vested interests which affect the nature of executive recommendations in this field. it would be in a position to submit the most objective assessment of our national security options. requirements. and priorities. there can be question that we need such a clearly objective evaluation if we are to restore public and congressional confidence in the national security process. this observation is affront to the able and hardworking men who apply themselves so diligently in the department of defense and elsewhere. indeed it could serve to relieve them of the often unwarranted suspicions which have come to handicap them in their service to their country. those of us who have been most critical of recent governmental policies in foreign policy and defense matters are obliged to realize the significant truth contained in the old maxim that "politics stops at the waters edge." the truth of that ancient insight lies  in any suggestion that critical discussion of the nations international problems is taboo. rather it consists of the understanding that a democratic government can operate effectively in an often hostile international environment if there is serious division on the homefront regarding the wisdom and justice of the nations foreign policies. that is especially the case in matters of national security. to act effectively on these matters. our form of government dictates that we find a wide area of domestic consensus. it is evident that the consensus on our postwar national security policies has been eroding for some time. and the longterm interests of our nation require that we find the basis for a new one. in my opinion the suggested commission could contribute much to that quest. by performing its task efficiently. objectively. and with a full understanding of its longrange significance. such a commission could help reestablish national confidence in the process by which the country governs its international activities. strategic policies. and military expenditures. that is an essential goal. and i commend the proposal to the senate as worthy of prompt approval.
that is exactly correct. i am very glad to develop that subject with my colleague. i am very grateful to the senator from oregon for highlighting the matter from his own experience and from his emous kledge of the water supply of the great thwest. of which he is such an ornament. . i ask unanimous consent thai. there be made a part of my remarks a document entitled "history of past litigation and description of proceedings currently pending in the u.s. supreme court relating to diversions from lake michigan by illis." prepared by the general counsel of the power authority of the state of new york.
. i introduce for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself and my colleague from new york . a bill to provide for an additional payment of $40.000 to the village of highland falls. n.y.. toward the cost of a water filtration plant constructed in 1954. this bill is an important piece of legislation to the village of highland falls. n.y.. which has faced a severe shortage. this situation would only be remedied by construction of a water filtration plant. this bill authorizes an additional payment to the village because of the increased construction costs of the governments proportionate share of liability toward the plant. the reason for the construction of the plant was that federal activity at the u.s. military academy of west point. n.y.. so increased the turbidity of the water supply in the area that filtration facilities were necessary. contribution to the cost of this construction was considered by the 80th congress. and public law 627. approved june 12. 1948. authorized payment of $85.000 to the village of highland falls. after the enactment of public law 627. land was conveyed without consideration to the village of highland falls for construction of a water filtration plant. which conveyance was authorized by public law 91. 82d congress. approved july 30. 1951. the cost of construction. which was completed in april 1954. amounted to $250.000 which included expenditures for legal and engineering work in the amount of $25.000. the cost of the construction of the plant has been considered reasonable in view of the rise in costs. the plant capacity is 1.500.000 gallons per day. as originally planned in 1948. with added improvements. legislation to provide federal compensation for a larger amount was originally introduced in the 83d congress. and has been subsequently introduced. the original bill passed the house of representatives in the 86th and 87th congresses. although modified in amount. but action has  been taken by the senate. it is time that the congress acted favorably in this matter to dispose of an outstanding obligation which has been pending too long. i hope very much that we may at long last be successful. as a matter of considerable justice is involved.
