. 60 years ago. on april 1. 1907. the state of colorado became the first state in the union to commemorate the discovery of america by christopher columbus. by designating october 12 a legal holiday. the movement to pass this law was apparently spurred by an italian immigrant. angelo e. a native of columbus hometown. ge. italy. mr. e organized civic and italian welfare groups in denver to forward the cause. and on january 13. 1905. the measure was introduced in the colorado house of representatives by hon. emmet a. bromley. five days later. it was presented to the colorado senate by senator cacimero barela. i am pleased to e that my own state of new york followed colorados lead and declared october 12 to be a legal holiday. many of us in congress have sponsored legislation calling for the designation of columbus day as a national holiday. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent that a concurrent resolution of the legislature of the state of new york. calling upon congress to make columbus day a national holiday. be printed in the record. there being objectin. the concurrent resolution was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. if i may digress for a moment. i think the amendments are so important that they should be referred to specifically. because the senator from wisconsin and the senator from new mexico have raised certain concerns they have about the new part d programs in title i of s. 2617. the senator from wisconsin has been concerned. among other things. about the possible crowding out effects of the lead agencies described in section 133. particularly on existing community action agencies operated locally under title ii of the ecoic opportunity act. on reflection. i agreed that to the extent volunteers under this bill would be working in both poverty and poverty areas. there was some danger that the cap agencieswhich are almost exclusively poverty areaorientedmight be preempted from selection as lead agencies. accordingly. the amendment before us has been drafted in order to secure the place of community action agencies in being designated as lead agencies under part d. specifically. the amendment: first. mandates consultation between the action director and the director of csa in the preparation of regulations under section 133. and second. provides that where the program to be operated will focus predominantly on lowincome persons. priority for selection of the lead agency will be afforded to community action agencies. i commend highly the senator from wisconsin for bringing this matter to the attention of the committee and believe the agreed upon language greatly improves part d of the bill. the senator from new mexico expressed a number of concerns to the committee. including the fact that action intended to request an appropriation of $40 million for part d. even though funding for the rsvp. foster grandparents and senior companions programs has remained relatively unchanged at around $62 million. we have discussed this particular matter in detail and concluded that $10 million of the planned request for part d ought to be earmarked instead for title ii older american volunteer programs. accordingly. our amendment provides that funds appropriated for part d may be obligated unless  less than $72.6 million has been appropriated for section 502. the authorization of appropriations provisions for the national older american volunteer programs. i specify that because he considered this an important element of his agreement with us. which we have duly entered into. the senator from new mexico was also concerned that section 133 of part d was lacking in specifics respecting the kinds of activities volunteers would engage in on behalf of neighborhood groups. while there was generic objection to the idea of professionals as volunteers assisting organizations in community revitalization activitiesthere was some concern that volunteers might get engaged in irrelevant or controversial issues. i wish to make clear that it is our intent that volunteers  get involved in political activities. we do . however. wish to discourage the wide range of useful activities volunteers could engage in at the local level. such as lawyers helping with tax exempt status. architects designing community recreation facilities. athletes organizing neighborhood sports programs or artists helping prepare neighborhood crafts festivals. there really is limit to the kinds of fine activities these volunteers could undertake. so we had to be very careful in how we wrote the provisions. but i understood the senators concerns and k that as a former mayor of the city of albuquerque he supports the committees effort to design an urban volunteer program that can have such salutary effects on our cities. small and large. what the amendment does. therefore. is to pinpoint that the activity. especially of professionalsdoctors. lawyers. accountants. or engineers. which will be as volunteers. and which. by the way. will  displace activities which might otherwise be profesionally engaged inwill be of a very finite nature. the activity will be defined in advance. sixty days before commencing any program. a ice is to be filed with congress. quoting  from the amendment. "describing in particularity the proposed nature. scope and geographic distribution of such programs." also. i have given assurance to senator domenici. as the ranking miity member of the committee. that i will see that there is strong oversight by the committee of the activities that are undertaken under this part d. in my judgment. senator domenici has made a most valuable contribution to the development of this idea. one that will help to assure that the urban neighborhood volunteer programs improve the quality of living in our distressed urban areas. i thank him for his interest and concern in this regard and urge the senate to agree to the amendment.
