 of the committee on banking and currency has explained. there is first a 60day ice period and then after decontrol is finally determined upon. a 90day ice period within which tenants may relocate or make other preparations before there is decontrol. in the provision  before us. if eviction is to take place by virtue of an act of the landlord. as permitted under the bill. such as remodeling or because he has withdrawn the accommodations entirely from housing or because he wants to occupy them himself. he must give 60 days ice. my amendment provides that the court which has jurisdiction to issue an eviction judgment may in its discretion give in addition up to 90 days grace to the tenant. hence the tenant is getting exactly the same rights as he would get if the whole area or that particular type of housing accommodations were being decontrolled. i submit that the standard established by the bill as to what is necessary under existing conditions to enable people to relocate themselves. which is 60 days and 90 days. even in an area to be decontrolled. should be applicable equally to tenants who are being evicted from premises through fault of their own and because of rights which are given to the landlord under this bill. i believe in all fairness that the house should adopt this amendment. and in all fairness the committee ought to accept it.
. i send to the desk. for reference to the banking and currency committee. three amendments to the housing act of 1964. the omnibus administration housing bill which is presently pending before our committee. s. 2468. the first amendment would establish a federal limited profit mortgage corporation. financed by taxfree bond issues on the money market. to underwrite limitedprofit. middleincome housing at a cost within the reach of families earning between $5.000 and $8.000. this would create a parallel on the federal level of the successful new york state mitchelllama program. which has been in effect since 1956. and as expanded under gov. nelson a. rockefellers administration to a total authorization of $1.150.000.000 and through the new york state housing finance agency. has completed or has underway some 61 projects consisting of over 30.000 apartments. the middleincome housing plan which the congress adopted in 1961 has so far been little used. but the need for housing for this income bracket in the urban centers has become increasingly desperate. our urban centers are tending to become the homes of only the extremes of wealth and poverty. and the suburban commuter is forced to use transportation facilities that are becoming more and more impossible. what the congress has done in the past and what it is  being asked to do. has  and will  reverse this process or even slow it down significantly. the second amendment would help to relieve the great pressure on available urban space for residential development. in the search for better ways to use urban space. gover rockefeller has pioneered with the use of air rights sites over railroad rightsofway. bridge and tunnel entrances. subway storage yards and highways. for middleincome housing. a committee which he appointed has concluded that. with the kind of federal support which is available  in the urban renewal matching grant formula. the development of such sites is feasible. federal law should provide the incentive for this development. and the amendment would make it clear that air rights are eligible urban renewal sites. the third amendment would expand relocation assistance to small businesses which are forced to move out of an urban renewal site. a problem which i have long sought to resolve. in the 1961 housing act the preexisting $3.000 limit on moving expenses was removed. but experience to date indicates that many of the smallest businesses in such areas. the small retail shops. for example. have such small inventories that their moving expenses are  significant to their survival. what is crucial to their survival is the good will built up over years of continued operation in the same neighborhood location. s. 3808. which i introduced in the 87th congress. would have allowed to such businesses onehalf of their average annual net taxable income during the preceding 3year period. with a maximum allowance of $7.500. to be eligible for such assistance the business would have had to have been continuously located in that area for 3 consecutive years. the administration bill recognizes the need for such payments by allowing in section 114(b) an additional payment of $1.000 upon displacement and a further $1.500 if the business has  been reestablished within 1 year following displacement. i believe these amounts are far too low to achieve their purpose or to do justice in given situations. and conditioning the further amount on relocation seems to me to be a possibly counterproductive incentive to going out of business rather than moving to a new location. my third amendment would substitute the substance of s. 3808 for the administrations recommendation. i ask unanimous consent that each of the amendments be printed in the record. along with a report relating to the air rights amendment from the housing and home finance administrator.
