i would point out to the senator from south carolina that i spent what i thought had been 6 very productive months with the distinguished senator from south carolina. the chairman of the committee. working out the report  lying on every senators desk. only to learn. when i entered the chamber today. that the report does  mean anything. indeed. the senator has some sort of substitute bill which totally obviates the work expended. it is a substitute  discussed or worked out with the ranking miity member of the committee. therefore. when the senator from south carolina refers to monkeyshines. i would say. in the light of the fact that i am the ranking miity member of the committee and he the chairman. where we have worked well together in the past. for him to present this substitute without consultation or any investigation or research is a shortcut which. to put it in the kindest terms. is  appreciated by this senator. i do  k what it is going to cost me. i think what it will cost me. in relation to standing up for the committee and the work of the committee. is something the chairman should have done. and  the ranking member. if that is wrong. then so be it. but far. far worse is what it is that the senator from delaware is attempting to do. and because he has the distinguished chairman a little nervous with his presentation. he does  have me nervous. and quite frankly. i very possibly have many peole on both sides mad at me. i gather i have. if my own side and the chairman are both mad at me. so be it. but the fact is that the work product of the chairman and his staff. and this member and his staff. was an excellent work product. i am  reading the bible or the constitution of the united states. i am reading what it is we took 6 months to prepare. i am reading the priorities we set. the policy directions that we took. and i. am proud of what it is that we did. i do  feel that is something to be just tossed out because of some sort of a son of proposition 13 type of amendment presented by the senator from delaware. who had never attended one of those hearings. who does  k one item in this bill except the total amount. it would be possible for me to go on and talk through the evening. i am . i am anxious to get this issue resolved. but i think if i do  move to table. [ k what will happen. we will get a lesser. watereddown version offered by the senator from south carolina as a substitute. let us vote on this right here.  a watereddown substitute. i am willing to go head and take it. one way or the other. if i fail. there is plenty of time for the senator from south carolina to go ahead and present his case. but i repeat. i would certainly be more than glad to ask unanimous consent to allow the senator from south carolina to go ahead and express his views on this matter if he so desires. i am  anxious to either cut short debate or explanation from him. i do  see what the explanation can be. i have absolutely criticism. but hing but praise. for the work constructed by him and those associated with him over the period of 6 months. i have hing but contempt for what was devised in a matter of minutes here as a substitute amendment for the amendment of the senator from delaware. that is  the appropriations process. and i am  just speaking  for this appropriations subcommitteei am speaking for every committee which thinks it is doing its work in congress. and sees its work. in a blanket way. torn apart. i understand every one of our bills is amended. improved. and adjusted. but on a line by line. word by word. policy by policy basis. but to take acrosstheboard cuts. without exception or consideration. believe me. there is  much purpose in any of us being here. i continue:
mr. prealent. i tise in opposition to the various constitational amendments that hiave been presented to this body. which amendmnents address the subject of prayer in school. or more particularly the debates might be framed along the lines of those who desire state prayer versus those who believe in total religious freedom. we do enjoy in the united states at the present time total religious freedom. any action taken on the floor of the u.s. senate will be a lessening of those freedoms. the first amendment to the constitution of the united states was directed against institutions.  against individuals. as this debate proceeds. i think it is going to be necessary to make certain statements of fact and truth rather than to accept a fast and loose description of what is the state of the law in this country today. schoolchildren of america enjoyat least if the constitution. the law of the. land. is being enforced. and it may be that it is  being enforced in some jurisdictionsdo enjoy voluntary prayertruly voluntary. in wise are they restricted from uttering their own prayer at any time of the day in the school. what is prohibited is the institutionalization of prayer in the school. and the minute you do that. it is longer voluntary. so let us understand clearly that those who are for voluntart. prayer are for the law as it  stantic. what is attempted here on the floor is to achieve an involuntary status for prayer in the united states. what is sought to be achieved is state prayer. my friends. the proponents of this amendment. like to feel when you add the word "voluntary." and when you add the word "school." it disguises the fact that what we are talking about is state prayer. whereas the first amendment of the constitution of the united states. as written. as intended. and as enforced by the courts of this nation. permit for total religious freedom in our country. the great contribution of the united states of america to western civilization. indeed to the history of the world. was we were the first nation. the first. in the course of our government and the setting up of that government  to have an established religion. western europe had been devastateddevastatedby the establishment of religion. the hugues. slaughtered in france. the waldenslans in italy. the irish and the english in england. the covenanters in scotland. indeed. history does  change. even today. the source of conflict in thern ireland is of a religious nature. irishmen killing irishmen.  over who is going to win the irish sweepstakes. but. rather. by virtue of various faiths which they espouse. tragially. in leba it continues.  for some small reason or differ*ence in politics but because of the great rift among the various religions of that nation. so we are  exempt from the lew sons of history. we are living amongst them right . the greatest trage. dies have been caused where men tried to establish religion within the civil aspects of their governments. eighteen years ago sam ervin stood in much the same place that i stand today. his opponent at that time was the father*-inlaw of the distinguished majority li ader. ipsay the same things that sens tor ervin said to senator dirkson. rather. it is  that there are those who believe in a creator and those who do  but. rather. which ts the beat route to take in understanding the creator and being able to worship the creator. in his statement that day on the floor. senator ervin quoted the late chief justice walter stacy of the supreme court of th carolina where justice stacy declared in the opinion that he wrote in state against beal: for some reason too deep to fathom. men contend more furiously over the route to heaven which they can see than over their visible walks on earth. [and) it would be almost unbelievable if history did  record the traic fact men have gone to war and cut each others throats because they could  agree as to what was to become of them after their throats were cut. . in the course of the days and weeks ahead. i and many of my colleagues will attempt to set the record straight insofar as explaining what this constitution is all about. explaining how it came to be. what it says. what the intent of these who wrote the constitution and the bill of rights was. and what has occurred in light of both congressional and court action. ody is going to filibuster this issue. ody. indeed. prior to coming to the floor today. i sat down with the majority leader and gave him a time certain of june 1 when we would vote on this measure. i am  so sure that he does  consider that to be long. i do . may i point out that the court stripping measures which we debated on this floor a year ago took 11 months. nnd that was a filibuster. but what the proponents of these measures are asking to be done would overturn 193 years of american history. i am  willing to see that done in a week to 10 days. the matter of religion was very much in the minds of the drafters of this document. it was  a causal thought.  tonight but at a later date we will get into the history but let me give you just a sampling of the thought that went behind this key part of our national heritage. first of all. this is where i learned. and this is when i try to apprise our fellow americans of what the constitution is all about. this is  something that we are doing because we k it all. every time i get into one of these debates i teach myself. we have all
mr. prealent. i tise in opposition to the various constitational amendments that hiave been presented to this body. which amendmnents address the subject of prayer in school. or more particularly the debates might be framed along the lines of those who desire state prayer versus those who believe in total religious freedom. we do enjoy in the united states at the present time total religious freedom. any action taken on the floor of the u.s. senate will be a lessening of those freedoms. the first amendment to the constitution of the united states was directed against institutions.  against individuals. as this debate proceeds. i think it is going to be necessary to make certain statements of fact and truth rather than to accept a fast and loose description of what is the state of the law in this country today. schoolchildren of america enjoyat least if the constitution. the law of the. land. is being enforced. and it may be that it is  being enforced in some jurisdictionsdo enjoy voluntary prayertruly voluntary. in wise are they restricted from uttering their own prayer at any time of the day in the school. what is prohibited is the institutionalization of prayer in the school. and the minute you do that. it is longer voluntary. so let us understand clearly that those who are for voluntart. prayer are for the law as it  stantic. what is attempted here on the floor is to achieve an involuntary status for prayer in the united states. what is sought to be achieved is state prayer. my friends. the proponents of this amendment. like to feel when you add the word "voluntary." and when you add the word "school." it disguises the fact that what we are talking about is state prayer. whereas the first amendment of the constitution of the united states. as written. as intended. and as enforced by the courts of this nation. permit for total religious freedom in our country. the great contribution of the united states of america to western civilization. indeed to the history of the world. was we were the first nation. the first. in the course of our government and the setting up of that government  to have an established religion. western europe had been devastateddevastatedby the establishment of religion. the hugues. slaughtered in france. the waldenslans in italy. the irish and the english in england. the covenanters in scotland. indeed. history does  change. even today. the source of conflict in thern ireland is of a religious nature. irishmen killing irishmen.  over who is going to win the irish sweepstakes. but. rather. by virtue of various faiths which they espouse. tragially. in leba it continues.  for some small reason or differ*ence in politics but because of the great rift among the various religions of that nation. so we are  exempt from the lew sons of history. we are living amongst them right . the greatest trage. dies have been caused where men tried to establish religion within the civil aspects of their governments. eighteen years ago sam ervin stood in much the same place that i stand today. his opponent at that time was the father*-inlaw of the distinguished majority li ader. ipsay the same things that sens tor ervin said to senator dirkson. rather. it is  that there are those who believe in a creator and those who do  but. rather. which ts the beat route to take in understanding the creator and being able to worship the creator. in his statement that day on the floor. senator ervin quoted the late chief justice walter stacy of the supreme court of th carolina where justice stacy declared in the opinion that he wrote in state against beal: for some reason too deep to fathom. men contend more furiously over the route to heaven which they can see than over their visible walks on earth. [and) it would be almost unbelievable if history did  record the traic fact men have gone to war and cut each others throats because they could  agree as to what was to become of them after their throats were cut. . in the course of the days and weeks ahead. i and many of my colleagues will attempt to set the record straight insofar as explaining what this constitution is all about. explaining how it came to be. what it says. what the intent of these who wrote the constitution and the bill of rights was. and what has occurred in light of both congressional and court action. ody is going to filibuster this issue. ody. indeed. prior to coming to the floor today. i sat down with the majority leader and gave him a time certain of june 1 when we would vote on this measure. i am  so sure that he does  consider that to be long. i do . may i point out that the court stripping measures which we debated on this floor a year ago took 11 months. nnd that was a filibuster. but what the proponents of these measures are asking to be done would overturn 193 years of american history. i am  willing to see that done in a week to 10 days. the matter of religion was very much in the minds of the drafters of this document. it was  a causal thought.  tonight but at a later date we will get into the history but let me give you just a sampling of the thought that went behind this key part of our national heritage. first of all. this is where i learned. and this is when i try to apprise our fellow americans of what the constitution is all about. this is  something that we are doing because we k it all. every time i get into one of these debates i teach myself. we have all
. all americans should be properly alarmed by the affront to the dignity of the nation. and to the respect for law and the federal courts shown by the disorders at the university of georgia. these incidents have for the moment resulted in flouting federal court orders which require the university. a creature of the state. to accept two negro students in compliance with the constitutional mandate against the unequal application of the laws by virtue of race and color. i believe that this is a clear example of why this problem is  a local problem. the courts of the united states are involved. the constitution of the united states is involved. and the prestige of the united states abroad. so much talked about during the campaign. is involved. hundreds of millions in the world whose skins are yellow or black are reading about this situation. i am sure the communists will see that they are fully briefed with the usual additio falsehoodsand exaggerations. in the face of such a national situation. it is a sad commentary that only this week. by our action on the senate rules. we have seriously jeopardized our own ability for passing civil rights legislation in this session. yet the congress must back the courts on this question of discrimination in education opportunity. the full majesty of our government must be brought into play to make it clear to those who have breached the public order that the nation will  tolerate it. such measures as added authority to the attorney general in these cases and technical and financial aid to educational systems subject to them are essential. in this same connection. we in other parts of the country can be complacent. either. the front page of the new york times today carries a story about the barring of a youth from a country club in the fashionable suburb of scarsdale. n.y.. because he was born jewish. all credit must go to the rev. george f. kempsell. jr.. of the church of st. james the less of scarsdale. n.y.. for his magnificent stand on human rights. i have boen the first to say that law is essential to prevent constitutional deprivations of opportunity. but can be expected to reach social discrimination. yet social discrimination is equally reprehensible in terms of the morals and spirit of the country. and must be equally condemned even if it can be effectively reached by law. the moral climate of the country set here in the congress has a great deal to do with the elimination of social discrimination. too. every american is entitled to be a citizen of the first class under the constitution. according to our laws. this is the promise of our country.
. where are we living. i think that is the question which all americans must answer. where are we living. this is  a matter of building a street or a road. or of putting in a sewer. which are local matters. we all understand that. this is a matter of the constitution of the united states and the freedom of any american citizen to go into any town or city in the united states and to get the benefit of protection there as a citizen of the united states. that is what this "united states" is all about. if we are outsiders in albany. ga.. then everyone in albany. ga.. is an outsider in new york city. chicago. and los angeles. that may be very uncomfortable. we could dismember our country upon that theory. yet that is the theory on which the united states apparently. without egh of a vocal protest to make itself heard in albany. ga.. is allowed to operate. the situation has become intolerable and beyond anyones endurance when 75 ministers of religion are arrested on a new theory of defeating the effort to break segregation in albany. ga.. through mass arrests. which is yet to be passed upon by the courts. i do  think there is any question that it ought to be enjoined as running counter to the constitution of the united states. etheless. it is one thing to be in court and aher thing to have the nation express its conscience. that is what is needed . there could be more eloquent speech of protest against this unamerican and inhuman performance than a news report of the bare facts. i beg the senates indulgence while i read from the new york times. a very reliable newspaper. merely the bare facts. hing else.  embellished in any way: chief of police laurie pritchett charged the demonstrators with congregating on the sidewalk. disorderly conduct. and failing to obey his commands to disperse. they were held in lieu of $200 cash bonds each and jailed here and in nearby leesburg. the story continues: this afternwhich was yesterday. the 28ththeymeaning these clergymen and lay religious leadersmarched by twos to the city hall. where chief pritchett and 20 patrolmen were waiting. the demonstrators stood for a while in silence. one policeman remarked to aher. "is everybody bashful. aint ody gonna: say hing." then the reverend man c. eddy of east harlem protestant parish in new york asked the reverend john w. p. collier of israel memorial a.m.e. church in newark. n.j.. to read from the scriptures.
