 of the standard oil co.. new jersey. said: our estimates indicate that there will  be any overall oil shortage during the coming year. barring war. disaster. or serious strikes. we do  think. however. that all instances of localized spot shortages can be avoided. elimination of spot shortages can be achieved only when supply capacity and working stocks are appreciably higher in relation to demand than can be reasonably expected during the coming year. our definition of a spot shortage is a shortage which can be corrected promptly when it occurs. spot shortages are aning. they cause some inconvenience. but they are  symptoms of any overall crisis. * * * however. if average supplies merely equal demand over the coming 9 months. local spot shortages should be infrequent and quickly corrected. recent experience indicates that such balance can be achieved. there is even a possibility that average supplies will exceed the demand. mr. max ball. director of the oil and gas division. department of the interior. testified: assuming that the winter is worse than the last winter was as to weather. that we have continued consumer conservation. at least as complete as we had last winter. and that we have strikes in the oil business and coal or railroad strikes. that we have unexpected increases in military demand beyond those which the military has already foreshadowed. that the system of state coordinators is continued in operation through the winter and that. particularly. the voluntary plan under public law 395 on which we are  working is put into effect. then there will be little individual consumer hardship for want of oil. there will still be some consumer hardship and considerable amount of industrial hardship for want of gas. particularly in the middle west. if too many of these things fail or go wrong. then there will be consumer hardship for want of oil. and even more hardship than i have indicated for want of gas. you will recall that last winter one of the greatest sources of difficulty arose from the shortage of transportation. a committee of the national petroleum council recently reported that due to new construction the united states will have sufficient oil tankers to meet the demands for at least this coming year. land transportation has also improved. there is one major pipe line in the midwest  in operation and aher is scheduled for completion in the near future. in this connection. i would like to submit a question by the gentleman from minnesota and the reply of mr. ball.
