i rise to compliment the gentleman from massachusetts and in opposition to the several amendments. i believe the gentleman has touched succinctly and clearly on what some of the cuts might mean in a number of areas. i should like to touch on one or two others he did  mention. if we should substantially cut development grants. we would go to the heart of the point 4 program. if we should cut the technical cooperation program. we would affect schools. agricultural extension agents. technicians. health workers and teachers in some 48 countries in asia. africa. and the near east. as the gentleman ks. if we do  spend the amount of money necessary. for example. for teacher training for 100 teachers. which might be only $100.000. we might in turn cost 50.000 students. over a period of 20 years. their opportunity for a better education. i would add that adequate funds for international organizations and programs are important. unef. on the sinai border. unrwa. which affects refugees. or unicef are vital programs. if we cut them. we will be doing something harmful. in my judgment. we should fully support the peacekeeping machinery in the near east. and certainly we should support childrens programs through unicef. the gentleman from massachusetts was convincing about supporting assistance and the dangers of $51 million slash. it is quite true that 82 percent of these funds will go to sustain the necessary endeavors in defense support of korea. laos. vietnam. and thailand. counterinsurgency and road construction funds for example for the theast section of thailand bordering laosare obviously important in the light of recent events. finally. there are development loans under the alliance for progress.  that brazil is perhaps starting to turn the corner is hardly the time to cut back onefifth of this program. this could affect also the central american integration or common market. which can be a basis for ecoic and social progress in central americain costa rica. el salvador. guatemala. honduras. and nicaragua. in addition. cuts of $25 million on top of an earlier reduction of $40 million could affect key projects in chile and colombia. i stand with the gentleman in bipartisan support of this program and in bipartisan support of former president eisenhower and president johnson. it is a vital program. it should  be trimmed. the amendments should be defeated. this is a time for statesmanship and responsibility and  politics.
. terrorism is a disease that has reached epidemic proportions around the world. it is a contagion that all people of the world are equally susceptible to. it is  merely that there has been a steep annual increase in international or domestic attacks.  is it simply a question of terrorism spreading into third world countries that were previously free of this plaquebut that terrorism has become commonplace and far more lethal. in the recent past. terrorism has taken a large toll including: 3 vacations at frankfort airport. 13 people at a cafe in san salvador. 75 bystanders in tripoli. i murdered marine in the beirut hijacking. a soviet diplomat executed in beirut and  an italian ocean liner taken over by pirates. i am pleased to annce to you. however. that this aftern the pirates surrendered to a joint group of plo and egyptian forces on the ocean liner. when it was 8 kilometers out of port said. the captured terrorists. along with the plo and egyptian forces. are longer on the ship. aite s 13021 their current location is unkn. presently. there are confirmed deaths or injuries. an american passenger. mr. leon klinghoffer. is yet unaccounted for. the liner is headed for ashtaad. israel. the ships next stop on its scheduled mediteranean pleasure cruise. per the request of the liners owners. . the motives behind these acts of barbarism may have differed. but their consequences were identical. the victims have little or connection with the causes the killers espoused. terrorism remains effective. as classical reactions to the recent plethora of massacres attest to. outrage and disgust give way to a feeling of helplessness. only the victims are visible. the faceless killer vanishes either in the international underground or under cover provided by a cooperating government. a quest for sense and punishment soon follows. as members of a social state governed by the rule of law. we begin to wonder what the true reasons for terrorism are. accustomed to seeking motives for more mundane crimes. some grow prepared to show understanding to the murderer with ostensibly political motives. the quest always follows the same pattern. when people resort to violence we believe irmight be a cry for help from people who are oppressed and otherwise unable to gain a hearing. at first glance the logic of this argument seems striking. yet it carries weight because it merges.guilt with inence. we have almost absolved of blame that which is inexcusable. worse still. this argument brings us dangerously close to the logic of the terrorists themselves. we may feel political sympathy with one group or aher and sound out the root causes of violence. but we must never fall into the moral trap terrorists set. the injustice can be offset by understandingand by fresh injustice.  is terrorism a stroke of fate that must be borne like an earthquake or flood. terrorism need  be understood. the pirating of this ship need  be understood. i join my colleagues in dencing this latest act of terrorism. our hearts go out to the family of mr. leon klinghoffer who has yet to be accounted for. perhaps this latest act will start a dialog between all countries to find a strategy for combating terrorism. the fight must be persistent and backed by international cooperation.e
. terrorism is a disease that has reached epidemic proportions around the world. it is a contagion that all people of the world are equally susceptible to. it is  merely that there has been a steep annual increase in international or domestic attacks.  is it simply a question of terrorism spreading into third world countries that were previously free of this plaquebut that terrorism has become commonplace and far more lethal. in the recent past. terrorism has taken a large toll including: 3 vacations at frankfort airport. 13 people at a cafe in san salvador. 75 bystanders in tripoli. i murdered marine in the beirut hijacking. a soviet diplomat executed in beirut and  an italian ocean liner taken over by pirates. i am pleased to annce to you. however. that this aftern the pirates surrendered to a joint group of plo and egyptian forces on the ocean liner. when it was 8 kilometers out of port said. the captured terrorists. along with the plo and egyptian forces. are longer on the ship. aite s 13021 their current location is unkn. presently. there are confirmed deaths or injuries. an american passenger. mr. leon klinghoffer. is yet unaccounted for. the liner is headed for ashtaad. israel. the ships next stop on its scheduled mediteranean pleasure cruise. per the request of the liners owners. . the motives behind these acts of barbarism may have differed. but their consequences were identical. the victims have little or connection with the causes the killers espoused. terrorism remains effective. as classical reactions to the recent plethora of massacres attest to. outrage and disgust give way to a feeling of helplessness. only the victims are visible. the faceless killer vanishes either in the international underground or under cover provided by a cooperating government. a quest for sense and punishment soon follows. as members of a social state governed by the rule of law. we begin to wonder what the true reasons for terrorism are. accustomed to seeking motives for more mundane crimes. some grow prepared to show understanding to the murderer with ostensibly political motives. the quest always follows the same pattern. when people resort to violence we believe irmight be a cry for help from people who are oppressed and otherwise unable to gain a hearing. at first glance the logic of this argument seems striking. yet it carries weight because it merges.guilt with inence. we have almost absolved of blame that which is inexcusable. worse still. this argument brings us dangerously close to the logic of the terrorists themselves. we may feel political sympathy with one group or aher and sound out the root causes of violence. but we must never fall into the moral trap terrorists set. the injustice can be offset by understandingand by fresh injustice.  is terrorism a stroke of fate that must be borne like an earthquake or flood. terrorism need  be understood. the pirating of this ship need  be understood. i join my colleagues in dencing this latest act of terrorism. our hearts go out to the family of mr. leon klinghoffer who has yet to be accounted for. perhaps this latest act will start a dialog between all countries to find a strategy for combating terrorism. the fight must be persistent and backed by international cooperation.e
. the authors of this bill have worked hard trying to meet the needs of veterans who travel to va health care facilities. i believe that my amendment will only strengthen what they have done. and i urge its approval by the senate. it is my understanding that the amendment is acceptable to both sides.
. i want to thank the senator from indiana. the distinguished floor manager of this bill. the proponent of the amendment. i agree with what he is attempting to do. i k it is harsh medicine to many states that have been exporters of trash. but this process has gone on for a long time. i think there clearly will be sent a message to those exporting states. they have to get on with it and solve their own problems. as you k. in the superfund. we had a similar provision. we said each state must plan to have. within its own borders. the capacity to dispose of its superfund qualifying toxic waste within x years so each state would  be tempted to go into midnight dumping or continuing to ship across borders. so i commend the senator from indiana for what he is doing. this is a terrible problem for the receiving states. we k that municipalities can reject it. but privately owned solid waste dumps can. this would permit the privately owned ones -to do it. so there would be proposals submitted to epa. it can be argued how strong those proposals have to be. but i think the measure is a good one.
yes. you can use it for that. you can use it for motorcycle training. i must say. the coercion parti will be perfectly candid with the senator from kentuckyi started out in the committee trying to have an amendment that would be extremely persuasive toward the states to enact both seat belt and helmet laws. and indeed the original approach i had was a similar one that we used for raising the drinking age to 21. which. as the distinguished senator being here at the time recalls. said if you do  enact it by x number of years. 4 years. whatever the years were. you would lose 4 percent. 5 percent of your total highway funds. that was very persuasive. every state in the nation thus enacted the drinking limit age law to 21. that was the approach i took. but a kinder and gentler staff persuaded me that was  the way to go. and instead said at the end of 4 years the state. if they had  enacted a seat belt and helmet law. would have to dedicate 1.5 percent of its funds to safety. and at the end of 1 more year 3 percent of its funds for safety. but the definition of safety is extremely broad.
. i rise in strong opposition to this amendment which would prohibit the occupational safety and health administration to expend funds for the purpose of implementing or administering regulations affecting safety belt and motorcycle helmet use. i commend the appropriations committee and the leadership of the senator from iowa . the chairman of the subcommittee on labor. health and human services. and education for striking this prohibition from the house bill. the use of safety belts and motorcycle helmets save lives and reduces the severity of injuries. at my request and that of tht distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee. the general accounting office [gao] evaluated the research studies that have been done on the effectiveness of safety belts and motorcycle helmets. gaos conclusion was that the research literature showed that safety belt use reduced both the fatality rate and the serious injury rate significantly. that state laws requiring safety belt and motorcycle helmet use reduced both fatalities and serious injuries. and that costs were reduced where crash victims used safety belt and motorcycle helmets. clearly. the use of safety belts and motorcycle helmets also saves employers money. traffic crashes are the  1 killer of employees. each fatality costs employers an estinated $110.500 in workers compensation and a similar additional amount for uninsured costs. injuries cost thousands more in health care costs and lost productivity. employers pay for over 15 million days of lost. time every year because of motor vehicle crashes. the national highway traffic safety administration [nhtsa] estimates that automobile crashes cost employers over $1.9 billion each year. businesses of any size. but particularly small businesses. can afford these costs in a healthy. growing ecoy. they certainly can afford them in the current ecoy. nhtsa i urge the senate to defeat this amendment and allow osha to go forward with. at a minimum. implementing that portion of the rule which would require employees to use safety belt and motorcycle helmets while on the job. this rule will save lives and save money.
. i k we may face a formidable task in gaining approval of these proposalsespecially the excise tax. but we must persist. these measures set us on the road toward a firm federal policy on tobacco use: we should discourage it. i commend senator bradley and senator bingaman for their fine work on this issue and urge my colleagues to cosponsor these measures.* by mr. thurmond (for himself and mr. simon):
it seems to me. madam president. that what we are doing here. if this amendment should be adoptedand after all. if it applies here. i see reason why  the next step. when we have a clean water act. why the same requirements should  be levied on that. if the federal government is  prepared to pay 100 percent of the cost of waste treatment facilities to clean up lakes and rivers and streams. then the local communities do  have to do anything. but that is a step ahead. i am going to stick right to this treatment of safe drinking water. it seems to me the federal government. with the tremendous mobility that exists within our populations and with the tremendous amount of travel that takes place where somebody from ohio is going to california or somebody from nevada is going to new hampshire or somebody from montana comes to rhode island. that the federal government has a certain right to ensure. to the extent it can. to the citizens of our nation. that the water they drink is clean. if the federal government is going to step in and be helpful. that is grandas we do in this legislation. we start. under this bill. with $600 million of revolving funds to help the local communities produce clean water. this is the first time we have had a revolving fund in that area. so this is a big step forward. but to say the federal government has power to ensure that traveling citizens of this nation are going to be safe where they go in the water they drink unless the federal government pays 100 percent of the cost i think is a very unusual step. i do  think that is a fair requirement to levy in connection with the safety and the health and wellbeing of our citizens.
populace states. oh. a very popular state. but  populace. and ohio. likewise. has  passed it. but i have urged the passage of that legislation in my state. certainly. i am going to vote to retain the requirementit is  a requirement. what it is is a factor in the law. a provision in the law which says states that do  pass that legislation will have to devote a certain amount of their highway funds to education and training for safety purposes--safety in helmets. safety in motorcycles. safety in automobiles. i will be very candid. the states do  like that because it takes some of their highway funds that they would rather spend on highways than on education. you might ask. "what is the federal government doing in this anyway. isnt this a states rights matter. why doesnt the federal government stay out of this." the reason we are in it. and deeply into it. is because we pay medicaid. there is  a state where we do  pay 50 percent of medicaid and. in most instances. pay more than that. so if we are paying the piper. we have a right to call the tune. these motorcyclistsi will say more on this tomorrow when the amendment comes upbut these motorcyclists who are laid up in hospitals. grievously injured. many in a coma because they have head injuries because they did  wear a helmet. they are being maintained in these hospitals by medicaid. they do  have fancy insurance policies. they are being maintained by medicaid. which you and i and you and you and you and the people in the galleries and elsewhere are paying. they are paying the bill. i think if we are paying the bill. we have a right to require at least that these motorcyclists wear helmets and. to the extent it can be monitored. that the seat belts be used in the vehicles.
. i commend the senator from ohio for his analysis of the situation. i should like to sum it up this way to my colleagues: in a nation where we are bumper to bumper. where we get hung up over airports. where we are enveloped by pollution that comes from automobiles. it is amazing to me that we can get all steamed up over the sst. the icbms. vietnam. and earth day. and yet. curiously. we take all of the aforementioned again and again and again. i wondered why. and i came to the conclusion that it is because as far as transportation in the united states is concerned. it has been a creeping rather than an instantaneous catastrophe. i say to my colleagues that we are  talking about a problem just of the senators from new jersey. new york. connecticut. and illis. we are talking about any city that has lost a piece of its park because an express highway is going through the middle of town. and that is children. we are talking about elderly people dying of respiratory diseases because the air is all gunked up. we are talking about our children and our friends who suddenly become statistics when they join the nearly 55.000 fatalities on our highways each year. we are talking about the couple who used to own the comer drugstore. newsstand. or candy store before it was torn down to make room for aher expressway. and we are talking about you and me. every time we get into one of these traffic jams and can move. whether from the maryland suburbs into washington or from connecticut into new york. we are talking about colorado and the other beautiful open spaces of this country which still have their beauty. and we are talking. if we vote this program. of more deficits. but rather of a transportation system that would be selfsustaining.
we are speaking of being able to supply decent. balanced transportation to those areas that are  crowded. of making sure that the open spaces of the united states do  fall into the same difficulties of urban america. and of making sure that. whether it is from an environmental point of view. a safety point of view. a travel point of view. or a health point of view. we will have a system that is compatible with the best interest of the travelers of this country. and that is all of us.
. this amendment deletes language that limited travel expenses and motor vehicles for the office of the secretary of health and human services. due to actions taken by the secretary. this language is longer necessary.
. this amendment deletes language that limited travel expenses and motor vehicles for the office of the secretary of health and human services. due to actions taken by the secretary. this language is longer necessary.
so.  said: "if youre  for me and my contra policy. youre being soft on communism in that part of the world. you either believe in these paid mercenaries. in their activities against the goveminent in nicaragua. as a patriot or youre walking out on a communist takeover. nuts. there are those of us whobelieve in a very activist role for the united states in. central america. south america. and the caribbean. and have long advocated it. that part of the world is a textbook case insofar as the conditions that permit communism to enter are concerned. through democratic and republican regimes alike. we have totally neglected our neighbors to the south. and we are paying the price for that . so the alternatives are  to do hing or go in with paid mercenaries. it is to do actively the things that central america. south.america. and the caribbean are looking for: bring a quality of life that includes education. that includes medical care. housing. all those things which have been totally lacking and which  a totalitarian philosophy promises.
. i would like to ask the senator from rhode island to clarify one of the provisions of the conference report. in particular. i am concerned about the status of the health and life insurance benefits of contract retirees. in passing the 4r act. congress inadvertently omitted the necessary protection to insure that these benefits are continued. many retired railroad employees currently find themselves in a position where they will have to assume payments of the premiums in order to continue their health and life policies. such a situation places a heavy ecoic burden on a group of people forced to live within a fixed income. i was happy to see that both the senate and the house versions contained the provisions to protect these retired railroad employees. it is my understanding that the conferees intend that the legislation would provide for the continuation of these benefits.
. i submit an amendment to s. 2664. to provide a program of health care insurance for individuals 65 or over who are retired. which will cover the cost of insuring an estimated onehalf million beneficiaries of the railroad retirement act of 1937. these persons are presently eligible for health care benefits under my bill even though they are outside the social security system and costs for them would otherwise have come from general revenue. the contribution for these beneficiaries will be determined annually by the secretary of health. education. and welfare and the railroad retirement board and be paid out of the railroad retirement fund and added to the federal medical insurance trust fund.
i thank the senator. i have a rather important question i should like to ask the majority leader. first. i should like to qualify myself by saying that i was one of those who went to president boschs inauguration with our  vice president hubert h. humphrey. i also tried to help the bosch regime by arranging for 1.500.000 doses of antipolio vaccine to be sent to his country. the vaccine was sent free. including the transport by pan american. airways. and the doses were actually administered through the efforts of the u.s. public health service to the children of the dominican republic. in the hope of buttressing that regime. the point that is troubling me and. ibelieve. many others. concerns the question of  taking sides. which the senator mentioned specifically in his very fine and typically thoughtful statement. the president has annced that we are in the dominican republic in order to save americans. to save other nationals. and to prevent a communist takeover. i thoroughly agree with the president about preventing a communist takeoverwhich assumes that there is danger of one. i also agree with the senator with respect to thb oas and all the procedures which he has outlined. but i should like to ask the senator a question. the senator saidand i think i heard him correctlythat we must eschew immediate judgment in this situation. does the senator. who as majority leader is of great importance in these discussions. feel that the door is open for the united states to withdraw from the situation. considering the attitude that may be adopted by the oas and king what so many of us do k about what evidence there isat least so far as it has been reported to usof the likelihood of a communist takeover. in other words. if we eschew immediate judgment. may  our judgment be to stay in. i must say to the senator right  that i am all with the president. as i have always been. when we were in a tight spot. i am with him . and i pledge that. but i ask the senator whether. in his judgment. we really have freedom of action in this situation. withstanding what has been said and done already. if the senator feels that we do. i believe it would make a very great difference in how the whole situation is regarded.
. as indicated by robert choate. one of the leaders in bringing the "hunger issue" to national attention. in testimony before the house committee on appropriations on to get food delivered to the blind. to carry food up six flights of stairs to the aged crippled. to truck commodities out to the end of a kentucky hollow. to transport indian families both to the trading post and to the commodity warehouse while the mother attends a nutrition class in navajo. to buy food stamps in counties where many families have zero income. to visit doortodoor urging people to enroll in the school lunch program. to alert mass media of the need for nutrition education and public service spots commodity and food stamp benefits. to seek inative methods of packaging and combining foods for those uiable to make full use of the commodity package. to urge mothers to feed their infants better baby foods. to update cultural customs once based on good nutritional practice but today impaired by lowered food values. to invite inspection of water sources and parasitic infections. to pay for a doctors care when the malnutrition is evident. to generate interest in apathetic communities over the plight of the hungryall these are the rewards of a vigorous emergency food and medical services program. if only the requested $33.000.000 is appropriated. oeo will  be able to fund any new emergency food and medical services programs for fiscal year 1971.
