. as a cosponsor of this amendment. but more importantly as a senator who long has been concerned about the education of the children of this nation. i urge the senate to grant full administration request for funding of the teacher corps. this program. along with other education programs. deserves the highest priority. it should be expanded and strengthened. the teacher corps was established by the higher education act of 1965 to focus increased attention on the educational needs of disadvantaged children in poverty areas of this country. the program is based on the concept that this country does  lack wellqualified and highly motivated young people. a concept that has been proven successful by the peace corps. since initiation of the teacher corps. the young people of this nation have once again demonstrated that they are eager to get involved in solving the problems of this country. they have shown that they are ready to accept a challenge to help those less fortunate than themselves. some 10.000 of them have applied to help solve an annual shortage of 172.000 teachers. those who have already completed the program are staying with the challenge. seventytwo percent of this years first graduating class say they will stay in poverty classroom work. eightyfive percent say they will stay in teaching. the potential of the program has been widely recognized. calls for expansion have come from the national education association. the american federation of teachers. the kerner commission. and many other groups. but the impact of the program to date has been severely restricted by limited and late funding. my own state of new jersey. the most urbanized state in the nation. provides a vivid example of both aspects of this restriction. last year there were only 10 teacher corps interns in the whole state of new jersey. there was shortage of volunteers. but limited funding prevented a more expansive program. because of confusion caused by late funding. it is possible that there will be teacher corps interns in new jersey this year. the 10 interns in new jersey last year were sent to trenton. the state capital. from temple university. temple dropped its trenton program this year because trenton state college and the board of education of new jersey planned to begin a program to recruit 35 interns and experienced teachers. that plan has been approved by the state department of education and the teacher corps. but the teacher corps approval is conditioned on the size of the appropriation we provide for the program. trenton state is gambling that congress will act responsibly and that funds will be available for the program. if their gamble fails. there will be teacher corps as far as the disadvantaged children of the poverty areas of my state are concerned. the gamble was necessary because the teacher corps is the only one of nine office of education programs which does  have forward funding. under the program as it is currently operated. local officials have to initiate and plan their program with assurance that funds will be available to implement it. the request made by the administration this year for the teacher corps provides for forward funding so that local officials will k in advance whether funds will be available for their program. the request also includes funding for a program of recruiting 1.500 interns. that figure will provide the funds for going ahead with the trenton state program. the teacher corps is an excellent example of genuine federalism. it is a federal program which relies on local initiative and local control. republicans take great pride in the role they have played in promoting this principle. it is a principle which anyone can be proud of so long as everyone involved lives up to their responsibilities. but local officials could  be blamed for losing faith in the principle if all of their initiative and planning goes for ght because funds are  available to implement their program. if we are serious about genuine federalism. if we are serious about providing equal opportunity to our disadvantaged children. then i believe we must support appropriations which will let these programs go ahead and will let local officials plan their programs in advance.
i believe i can help in this situation. i received approximately the same telegram from the new york state catholic welfare committee that the senator from ohio received. i discussed it with the distinguished senator from oklahoma. i believe that when he gets into the explanation of the bill. he can give rather important satisfaction to people who think as do those who sent the telegram to the senator from ohio and those who sent the telegram to me. i most respectfully make this suggestion to the senator. he can evaluate the demand made in the telegram after the explanation has been made. in terms of what satisfaction the senator from oklahoma can. in the legislative history of the bill. give to this point of view. i submit that as a suggestion.
it is my construction of the amendment that where the parent organization animates the controlled affiliate to lobby for a certain issue. then the parent organization is responsible for reporting regarding that lobbying activity. an organization such as a diocese would qualify or  qualify depending on the terms of the law. but where. say. the chamber of commerce of the united states or the national catholic welfare conference sends out a broadside. let us say. saying "it is very wrong to revise title 20 of the social security act in this way." then the parent must undertake to report that on its own report because the affiliate was engaged in it at its request. the muskiejavits proposal goes directly to that situation. where a local lobbies on an issue at the request of the parent. the latter reports the activity. that is my interpretation. i might turn to senator ribicoff just to make sure we are on the same wavelength.
