. this report deserves real role in postwar europe. for all the frontwide currency and careful reading by all who love liberty and who understand erfahrungen aus der beobachtung und that its price is eternal vigilance- abwehr rechtsradikaler und antisemitischer against the forces of extremism. whether tendenzen im jahre 1964. der bundesmi the left or of the right. that preach ister des innern. bonn. february 1965. 2forum (magazine of the congress for culhate instead of love. violence instead of tural freedom. vienna). february 1960. justice. fear instead of courage. and war 8 antisemitism in great britain. views instead of peace. the american jewish (london). number 3. autumnwinter 1963. page attention accorded the recent swastika smearings and cemetery desecrations in bamberg. coblenz. and elsewhere. the current rightradical challenge lies  so much in their political parties and internationals as in the realm of propaganda and ideas. the neonazis predict and hope for ecoic and political disaster. their goal is to maintain themselves until their antidemocratic and nihilistic ideas again catch fire. and they are catapulted back into power. "what are our chances." asked veteran british blacksiirt leader oswald mosley in his national european last september. "e. until crisis." but that crisis. he went on. "is certain." while the early organizational neonazi thrust has been blocked by european prosperity and the establishment of working. democratic regimes in germany and italy. there remain a number of dangerous factors. these include: support for antisemitic and rightradical groups in europe and south america by the nasser government and the arab league. striking evidence of this appeared recently with the exposure of a neonazi underground in sweden. the attraction to rightwing ideologies of large numbers of university students. a key element in society. the increased currency and prestige of certain racist and political themes which. in the early postwar period. were advanced almost solely by neonazis. while crude nazi racist theories are still anathema. emphasis on ethnic or national personality is much more widespread in europe today than a few years ago. the demand that the united states withdraw from europe. voiced primarily by rightist fringe groups a few years ago. has become part of legitimate. controversy. similarly. aid to underdeveloped countries and support of the united nations. both under longstanding attack by rightradical groups. are  open to. more general questioning. although these developments are apparently a reflection of currents and changes on the european scene rather than a response to extremist appeals. they are nevertheless deeply troubling. as political scientist peter g. j. pulzer points out. the antisemitic movements which matured in germany and austria after 1918 originated in a period of hibernation and underground survival from 1867 to 1914 when. side by side with the lack of outward success. antisemitism penetrated political thinking and undermined the acceptance of liberal values.4
