 in any anncement of a bombing halt should state that "we assume that the parties to the talks would respect our restraint in the interest of substantive negotiations. further. as i said over 2 years ago. the nlf should be a party to these negotiations and a failure to recognize this constitutes a failure to recognize the lessons of the paix de la brave in algeriaalthough the situations are  totally similar. ultimately. both the united states and saigon must deal with forces and people in the field in interim arrangements looking toward a ceasefire and guarantees of free elections flowing from a negotiated settlement. an obvious advantage of creating the conditions necessary for serious negotiations would be to require our government to develop clearly our peace terms and to make saigon recognize the imperatives and realities of a negotiated settlement. unless this occurs. saigon is liable to fail to take major steps to end corruption. meet the horrendous refugee needs. carry out major land reform. and face the fact that neither a military victory  a narrowly based government will be supported by the people of south vietnam or by the people of the united states. in sum. we should . as a great nation. permit saigon to have a veto on our policies or pursue a course without diplomatic rationale which is likely to result in protracted fighting and higher american and vietnamese casualties. and postpone into the future. if  prevent. a negotiated. hoable settlement.
also. as i understand. the president. as commander in chief of the army and navy. conducts a great many negotiations in his military capacity. and. particularly in the present war. has entered into a great many military agreements which have been regarded as executive agreements. a question arose. as i understand. with respect to the relief and rehabilitation subject. a matter which is on the border line. and the senator from michigan called it to the attention of the secretary of state in time to prevent its being handled merely as an executive agreement. i understand the matter has been worked out  so that it is  to be in the form of a formal treaty. but that it will come before the two houses of congress in some other form before it finally becomes effective. i ask the senator from michigan if i am correct in that statement.
. i have been a member of the special subcommittee of the house foreign affairs committee on displaced persons and the international refugee organization. and i would like to say to the gentleman from georgia that one of the other members of the committee was the gentleman from kentucky who has about a hundred foreignborn in his district. he signed the unanimous. report together with the gentleman from pennsylvania . the gentleman from new york . and myself. we found that the dps were useful citizens. that they were completely anticommunist. if they are  then they could immediately go back to where they came from which is largely in the communist territory. we found them to be as able and fine a group of people as you could find anywhere. that they were  loafers. i hope the debate on the coming bill will expose some of these slanders against the dps. i want also to pay my tribute to the gentleman from maine who put together this bill covering a most delicate and difficult subject. the bill should pass the house as written. i say to the friends of the bill that if you try to amend it you may kill it. this problem of the dps is a world problem. after the war originally there were eight to nine million displaced persons in germany.  there are about a million. the russian forces kicked most of them out of the way in their zone and made them go back to where they came fromthere are dp camps in the soviet zonebut general eisenhower stood for more humane methods. a million of the dps said they did  want to go back where they came from because they were against the government and were in fear of persecutio in fear of religious persecution. the issue of the displaced persons is the great moral issue of europe. the russians said to send them all back where they came from. it made difference whether they legitimately feared for their lives due to political or religious persecution when they got there or . we said. " that is  humane. that is  in accordance with our principles. we will  do it. we will take care of them. and we will find them a safe haven." the resolution of that moral issue is the basis of this bill.
. the anncement the other day that our government has introduced an explosive e in the already troubleridden situation in the near east by its decision to give arms aid to iraq is properly a matter of grave concern. this question was raised by 35 members of congress. 29 from both parties in this body and 6 from the other body in a letter of february 5. 1954. to the secretary of state expressing grave concern over any such policy by our government. iraq is a member of the arab league and is still in a technical state of war with israel.  having concluded even an armistice agreement as have other arab states. the situation in the near east. we all k. is at a critical point with boycotts. border incidents of daily occurrence. and incendiary statements by arab leaders. it must be assumed that our government seeks to justify this decision on grounds of the national security. accordingly. in view of the seriousness of a decision to furnish arms to one of the arab states our people should k the answers to the following questions. and i am requesting the answers from the state department. first. what are the commitments and capability. if any. undertaken by iraq to support turkey and pakistan in their defense arrangements for the middle east. second. what commitments. if any. have been undertaken by iraq to refrain from using arms available to it for aggression. either itself or through other members of the arab league. third. how does our government believe arms available to iraq will affect the threepower declaration of may 1950 to preserve the integrity of the borders of the countries of the near eastdeclared by us. the united states. great britain. and france. fourth. what action is our government prepared to take and is any parallel action called for by the other two governments concerned to see that the threepower declaration of may 1950 is respected.
will the committee go thoroughly into the question of these particular refugee escapees. covered by a very extensive report involving a very important factor in the cold war between us and the soviet union.
all of us have great respect for the majority leader. the majority leader was gracious egh to advise me. and. i am certain. other senators as well. especially those of us who had taken an interest in the stimulating debate which he initiated by a generally similar treatment of the subject about 2 years ago that he would address himself to this question today. naturally. one must reactbecause reaction is importantwithout having opportunity to give the proposal the study in depth which our distinguished friend himself has had. i would say two things are clear from what he has already stated: first. that although he speaks for himself. and  for the president. although he is the majority leader of the senate. he states one firm and fundamental truth. which i believe is typical of all of us. i make bold to say. on both sides of the aisle. that although he may  particularly like the conations of the words "stand fast on berlin." that is what he. himself. recognized in the first instance. namely. that we shall  accept khrushchevs proposal. withstanding the attrition. withstanding the ultimatum. and withstanding the danger and the fact that the senator believes. as do i. that khrushchev means. or we must take him to mean. precisely what he says. so the senator and i are at one on the proposition that berlin is so important to the cause of freedom that if it is necessary to risk war on account of berlin. we will risk it. this is a critical point which must be made in the first instance. it is that. as regards berlin if that is the price khrushchev wants paid. second. the germans and the situation of the federal republic of germany are deeply affected by what happens in regard to berlin. they are about to have an election. i do  k whether my colleague took that point into consideration. but i believe it is very important. the germans are about to have an election. and in that election the people of the german federal republic will have an opportunity to express themselves on the critical issue i have just  stated. as the senator from montana has stated with the deep feeling and the humanitarianism which are so typical of him. the decision the president has to make in such a matter is an awful one. we should also think of the much more awful decision to be made by the german people themselves. who are looking directly into the face of this danger. across an imaginary border in the city of berlin. in the main body of their country. therefore. it seems to me that it would be very timely. before we began to discuss in any depth a proposition such as the one which just  has been given to usand i agree with the senator from montana that any alternatives must be considered and discussed. and are entirely suitable for discussion in the senatefor us to give the people of the german federal republic an opportunity to express themselves. so as to see whether it is their determinationand i am confident that it isright there on the spot. that berlin be dealt with in terms of its importance to their own freedom. i say that because of one statement by the senatori believe i correctly understood what he saidnamely. that bonn and pankow subscribe to this arrangement. on of the fundamental tenets of adenauers government has been that it did  recognize the east german government. which is  a freely elected government. it is hing but khrushchevs creature. khrushchev did  have to say he would back up the east german government with military force. and the whole world ks it. khrushchev is ulbricht. and ulbricht is khrushchev. so this is one point in connection with the senators proposal which would be a critical one as regards the attitude of the german federal republic toward what is here proposed. in that it would involve. for all practical purposes. the acceptance and the ackledgment of the east german government as one with which one can deal. because bonn and pankow. so said the senator. would have to agree. finally. madam president. we must  forget that this is  a matter which is being discussed in a vacuum. the fact is that in 1959 secretary of state herter. on behalf of the u.s. government. made certain proposals in regard to the berlin issue. he was willing to have appointed a committee which would do its best to adjust the relationships between both governments in the berlin area. perhaps even without involving recognition of the east german government. but looking toward a time when. somehow. some effort might be made to achieve the unification of all of germany. in that connection. let us remember that just as it is a russian obligation to see to it that the united states. france. and britain are  disturbed in their occupation of the zones of berlin which they presently occupy. it is also one of the russian obligations. which was undertaken at the same time. to try to bring about the unification of germany. i do  agree with the senator that merely because 15 years have elapsed. we must do something else or must find a third way. fifteen years have elapsed since poland. czechoslovakia. all the baltic countries and all the balkan countries were enslaved. but i do  want to find a third way as to them. i want them free. as the russians agreed they should be. the russians have limitless patience. they do  care if the situation in berlin continues for 45 years. similarly. madam president. we should  care. either. if we do. we invite disaster. in my opinion. i do  think the amount of time that has passed is a reason for finding a third way as regards berlin. so. madam president. in summary. i say to my colleague that i shall study further his proposal. and shall do my utmost to comment on it in greater detail and in more deliberate fashion at a subsequent time. but for the present. first. we are very grateful to him for the lumiity of his discussion of this matter and for his attempts to find a way for us to proceed in a very difficult situation. second. i do  believe we have to be in a hurry or need to feel under any pressure because of khrushchevs threats. if he does  make threats in regard to berlin. today. he may make threats. tomorrow. in regard to some other place. so i do  believe we should be influenced by such threats or attempts to exert pressure. third. i deeply believe we must await the outcome of the german federal republic election before we undertake to do anything serious about this matterin order to permit the german people. themselves. to give a new mandate in regard to their wishes. fourth. i do  believe we should recognize the east german puppet regime. if we do recognize that regime. the entire present situation in berlin will collapse. and then word would go out that we had given in. fifth. i believe that. regardless of whatever we decide we wish to do. we must start from where we were beforeto wit. with secretary herters proposal. at least. it should be very carefully examined. in order to see whether. in the first instance. it or some variation of it is a proper starting point for the united states. madam president. i am very grateful to the senator from montana for his patience in permitting me to make these remarks.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a joint resolution commemorating the signing of the rushbagot agreement on april 2829. 1817. in washington. d.c. the stilloperative agreement provided for naval disarmament along the great lakes and lake champlain. the principle of disarmament gradually extended to border fortifications. so that today- 150 years laterthis exemplary agreement is the oldest arms limitations treaty in the world. as a result of the foresight of then secretary of state richard rush and then acting foreign affairs minister of canada. charles bagot. the united states and canada today enjoy the longest unfortified boundary on the globe5.525 miles long. including alaska. the rushbagot agreement is one of the most significant steps in the development of peaceful relations between the united states and canada. the unfortifled boundary between our two countries is a tribute to the ho and integrity of both nations and should serve as a symbol to the rest of the world of the harmony and understanding which can be achieved by two sovereign governments. it is thus especially fitting that we give the rushbagot agreement the national recognition and admiration it deserves.
. before i ask the senator a question. i would like to say that for years. withstanding my deep feelings about united statesisrael relations. i have supported the u.s. participation in unrwa in such a major way to alleviate the plight of the palestinian refugees. i still feel that this continues to be a critical element of stability in that area of the world. i deplore the fact that we have  seen cases of very grave -abuse that are so inimical to the interests of the united states and peace in the area. i have described those. there is a dismaying lack of progress in moving toward some real settlement with respect to the refugees rhich will terminate the need for an unrwatype of operation. there is question about the fact that a solution to the refugee problem must be incorporated into a peace settlement inthe area or we will never be free of the terrible exacerbations caused by this problem. under all these circumstances. and bearing in mind that the mandate of this agency given by the united nations expires in 1972. we are getting toward the point of deciding whether we want the united states to continue along the old unrwa path. i would like to ask the senator. who has been very understanding in this situation. two questions: first. did the committee receive any information to make it feel that the proviso which we wrote into the enabling legislation is being taken seriously. so that we are able to find out that the u.s. contribution is  being used to furnish assistance to any refugee receiving military training as a member of the socalled palestinian liberation army or any other type of guerrilla organization or any refugee similarly engaged in any act of terrorism. that is pretty hard to believe. considering the recent -civil war in jordan. second. i wish to ask the senator whether the committee considered having our state department do something about terminating soon this aalous situation. especially of terminating the present type of unrwa operationwhich has  been going on for 20 years.
. i am pleased to join as a sponsor in the bill introduced yesterday by the junior senator from maine to authorize the secretary of state to furnish financial assistance for the resettlement in israel of jewish refugees from the soviet union. the immigration of beleagured jews from the u.s.s.r.to israel was a trickle of 1.000 in 1970. a flow of 13.000 last year. and is expected to grow to a heavy stream of some 40.000 this year. only last month 330 arrived on one el al flight. israel. with its limited resources strained to the utmost in securing its defenses and in providing for other impoverished refugees from the middle east and elsewhere who came in previous waves. is burdened almost beyond endurance in dealing with this new wave who come from the soviet with almost hing in the way of goods. enriched only by a desire to be free. this bill will help in carrying the new burden. this legislation is in keeping with the statement of secretary of state rogers in october 1970 when he declared: we believe that free movement is one of the basic human rights of all persons. we have expressed sympathy and support on many occasions for persons in the soviet union who wish to emigrate. often to rejoin their families elsewhere. but who are denied permission to do so. we shall continue to make these views kn and to take every practical measure which could overcome the hardships suffered by such persons. this legislation is one of those practical measures to overcome -the hardships suffered by these refugees which can be undertaken by the united states. since world war ii. this government has contributed $2.8 billion for refugee relief. about $500 million of which. for example. was for arab refugees. the assistance contemplated by the measure being introduced today is aher step forward in our national policy of aid to the homelegs. as a member of the committee on foreign relations. i shall cooperate in the prompt consideration of this bill in order that the jews of the sovi6t union who seek to be free might begin anew their lives in an atmosphere of freedom and tolerance.
