. october 8 wid be an important day for the state of connecticut and its 350.000 disabled citizens for it will mark the fifth anniversary of the creation of the state office of protection and advocacy for handicapped and developmentally disabled persons. established in 19.77 to comply with the developmental disabilities assistance and bill of rights act. the connecticut agency is one of the few protection and advocacy office in the nation which as part of its state mandate must serve all people with disabilities  just those with developmental disabilities as is currently required under federal law. over the past 5 years. therefore. the protection and advocacy office has filled quite a sizable gap in services for the disabled by being the only connecticut agency whose sole interest and very reason for being is to preserve. protect. and enhance the rights. of such individuals. in fulfilling this vital function. the office engages in a myriad of activities ranging from routine ssi casework to conducting public services advertising campaigns designed to heighten the publics awareness of the needs. rights. and abilities of people with disabilities. when it has had to. the protection and advocacy has  hesitated to go to court in order to insure that disabled people receive the full protection afforded them under the laws and the constitution of this country. as a result. some of the stands which the agency has taken over the years have  always been popular. however. through a rare combination of patience and persistence. the office has been making considerable progress in educating local elected officials and town residents alike to the fact that being retarded never stopped anyone from being a good neighbor. during the past 5 years. connecticuts protection and advocacy office has been a positive force working on behalf of our states disabled citizenry. small measure of the success of this agency is directly attributable to the leadership provided it by elliot j. dober. the agencys executive director. and stanley kosloski. assistant director. the foresight and fortitude of both of these men is the reason why the agency has come so far in eliminating environmental and attitudinal barriers which have long stood in the way in the participation of disabled persons in the mainstream of americas life. for all that both men and their staff have done to improve the opportunities available to disabled people to lead satisfying and productive lives. they deserve our commendation and our thanks. special thanks is also owed to robert melandor. who as a parent and attorney helped to draft the original state legislation establishing the office and who  serves as the acting chairperson of its citizen advisory panel.e
