. i am using the inte- teras island. and wrlghtsvlle bench. bodie rior department maps as the basis for island deleted from coastal barrier rethe amendments i am  proposing. source system. also bogue banks deltd. the maps reported by the commit- south carolina tee on environment and public works new areas: pawleys intel. boundary change: litchfield beach. daufuskie island. st. helena (renamed otter i.). captain sams inlet. and edisto complex. georgia new areas: wassaw island. little cumberland island. and cumberland island. boundary change: e. florida new areas: guana river. usinas beach. matanzas river. coconut point. bodwitch point. mandalay point. ochlockonce complex. and four mile village. boundary change: talbot islands complex. conch island. ormondbythesea. ponce inlet. vero beach. hutchinson island. th beach. lover key complex. sanibel island complex. bocilla island complex. manasota key. long boat key. the reefs. cape san blas. shell i.  called st. andrew complex. and morepoint. amelia island. jupiter island and st. george units deleted from coastal barrier resource system. alabama new areas: pelican i. boundary change: mobile point.
. this amendment is a technical amendment which simply corrects a small error made in naming the national recreation and park association. i would like to take a moment to express my appreciation to the chairman of the banking committee for his assistance in bringing this legislation to the floor. i also thank the majority leader and my other colleagues for their support for this important bill. s. 1853 bestows a fitting ho on laurance spelman rockefeller. a man whose lifelong dedication toward protection of open spaces. historic landmarks. and the environment will benefit all americans for generations to come. the fact that over 50 senators have cosponsored this bill is testimony to laurance rockefellers stature as one of the great conservationists of our time.
. is that homeowners currently do  have a great deal of confidence that radon measurement devices are providing aocurate results. the general accounting office completed a report in august of 1990 which highlighted some of the problems with companies which produce and analyze radon measurement devices. such as the charcoal canisters used to test homes. in summary. gao concluded that many of these companies do  have .an adequate quality assurance program. and that the radon measurements they report back to homeowners could have a high degree of error. further. since most states do  have regulations covering radon mitigation. as they do for asbestos removal. the cleanups attempted by many radon companies are ineffectual. and there are few followup procedures to assure the radon contamination has been remedied. although epa runs a voluntary proficiency testing program. gao reported that even after companies fail epas test. they continue to market their products. gao recommended that measurement companies: be required to pass the epa proficiency testing program before marketing their devices. and demonstrate the existence of adequate quality assurance programs as a condition of participating in the epa proficiency testing program. the legislation we are considering today acts on both of these reoommendations. and will ensure that important. healthbased decisions are made on the basis of reliable test results. senator mrrcmll and senator lautenbeg have been very active in their support of radon legislation through the years. i commend their efforts. i hope my colleagues will join with us in supporting this worthwhile legislation.
 of the chase national bank. said: thus proration. as  operated. is a means for preventing waste and at the same time is an agency for effectuating and maintaining ecoic equilibrium. this means hing more  less than stabilizing the price of the product. dr. alexander sachs. an ecoist. at that same meeting said: along with that there was an incentive to such development by reason of the collapse of the price structure. and so we have developed a stabilized idea. an idea where the focus of interest was the stable price. those. i submit. are statements which should be convincing to any of us who are interested in seeing that the public is protected in the operation of this compact. if you go back into the history of the compact and study the work of the cole committee. of which the gentleman from new jersey was a member. you will find that in the background lay suggestions that the antitrust laws be waived in connection with solving the critical problem that then existed as to the production of oil. you will find that when the committee reported out this bill it was the same bill that passed the house and became law. there was a recommendation made in the bill that was reported by this committee that there should be established a federal board. to do what. to see that in the fixing of these socalled allowables the public interest was protected. i suggest to you that when you have a situationand i am  making any charges  is the gentleman from new jersey  any other members of the miitythat there has been afnything wrong about it. but we did say that where you have the oilproducing states concerned they have been properly and rightly concerned about the conservation features and properly and rightly concerned about the price structure. you have members of the oil industry coming before the state proration boards making estimates of what they think will be consumed in the period ahead. you have these estimates from all of the major companies. for instance. at texas in the statewide meeting on may 17. 1950. practically every one of the company representatives agreed that the amount of crude that would be consumed was almost the same figure. when you have absolutely one who is charged with that specific responsibility to protect the interest of the public. participating in these compact commission meetings. deliberations. and recommendations. and certainly one representing the public in connection with the setting of the allowables. we. as representatives of the public at large. have our responsibility to provide some means of checking this to determine whether there has been any violation of existing law or of the limitations in the compact itself. i submit that there is  a member who will vote against this amendment this aftern who would  support a prosecution. if there was developed in the course of an investigation that there was a violation of the antitrust laws. i submit there is  a member here who would tolerate any combination in restraint of trade if it was pointed out as a fact. but. i do submit all of us have a higher responsibility than to any particular interest or special interest. it is all right for us to be concerned about the conservation of some particular product. i suppose we might extend that even to the conservation of minerals which are wasted. although we have never done that. i think. however. in the long run. any member of congress who wants to represent the best interests of the public as a whole. should give serious consideration to the legitimate interests of the public. the consuming public. after all. they should be entitled to some consid. eration in connection with this legislation.
that is absolutely true. but. when the attorney general says. as i stated earlier. that during the whole course of the 16 years. it was  their understanding that the department had any obligation to investigate the activities of the states as to whether the expressed purpose of the compact had been fulfilled. and when the attorney general says in answer to a question put to him by the gentleman from new jersey that they had objection to an amendment which would spell out that responsibility in this connection. then i think it is high time that the congress should discharge its responsibility in seeing to it that the compact really does what it asserts it does. and that is create real conditions of conservation without affecting price through some violation of the antitrust laws.
