i thank my colleague. i point out. first. that president eisenhower had such platform pledge on which to run. that pledge wasmade in 1960 in the republican platform. and the candidate was defeated. the democratic candidate won on that platform. and he was pledged to improve the congressional procedures to safeguard majority rule. second. i point outa point which i think the senator from florida has  answeredthat the president is the leader of his party. we all understand that. it is generally ackledged. i point out particularly that every argument the senator has made was equally applicable to the house rules fight. and the president certainly participated in that.. finally. we are  living in a dream - world. - we k that rule xxii has the - most direct and effective. effect upon proposed legislation in the . senate chamber. including the very measures with respect to which the president recently sent a message to congress. it was a very important message. if the president is really sincere and serious about his message. he had better be sincere and serious about being the leader of his party and bringing about a change in rule xxii. because very little will happen as a result of his message unless there is some effective change in that rule or unless egh senators will rallyas they have  previously doneto impose cloture after many weeks of debate on a civil rights measure. that brings me to the point that whatever else i say today. i hope i may impress my colleagues and the country with the conviction that the most important civil rights vote to be cast between  and election day in 1964. perhaps thereafter. too. but certainly in that period. is a vote on cloture. let one mistake that or be confused about it. senators can vote any way they please on a dozen civil rights measures if we can ever get to a vote on them. it is the vote on cloture that counts. that statement applies to the vote which was cast in the senate a few weeks ago. and it will apply to similar votes which i hope will be cast in the days ahead. i hope the people of the country who are interested in the issue will e that well. we are  speaking of the filibuster rule. the votes of twothirds of the senators present and voting are required to close debate. we can reach a vote on any meaningful civil rights measure unless the measure is cut and trimmed to suit senators who are filibustering unless the proponents can muster a twothirds majority. there will  be such a vote unless the people of the country understand that that is the key to civil rights legislation and that there is other. this is the most important single civil rights vote that any senator can cast. with this background. the impact of the presidents special message can be best evaluated. switching its position at least in part the administration  expands its legislative requests: the presidents 1963 message includes seven legislative proposals. apart from the routine extension of the life of the civil rights commission. which this time the administration requests for a period of 4.  2. years. but also  permanently. though it was part of the democratic national platform in 1960. of the remaining seven proposals. four are again in the nature of supplementary amendments to the 1957 and 1960 acts. the literacy test proposal is offered once more. hopefully a more forceful case will be pressed by the administration so that doubts as to the constitutional basis for the provision. which were permitted to serve as a rallying point for the opposition. will  again becloud what is an excellent legal case. this time the administration adds to this request provisions generally making discriminatory all standards for voting. whether of literacyor otherwise. granting preference on the court dockets to voting cases brought under the 1957 and 1960 acts. and providing for the interim apcix323 pointment of voting referees during the pendencyof such cases. these additional refinements of the existing law are indeed welcome and helpful. but they are mighty small when matched against the total effort. certainly considering the rough course toward passage which any civil rights bill is likely to encounter. the gross inadequacy of the statutory remedies at the disposal of the department of justice is best illustrated by what happens when negroes attempt to register and vote even today. 100 years after the emancipation proclamation. 6 years afer passage of the 1957 civil rights act. and almost 3 after the 1960 civil rights act. among other forms of terror and harassment. gunfire is directed at them. yet state authorities take action whatever to prevent the incidents or punish the culprits. the most recent reported incidents. part of a long string of such incidents. began on the night of february 28. 1963. in lefiore county. miss.. when it is charged that white men from a moving car shot and seriously wounded a young negro vote registration worker. since then a building used by registration workers has been burned. 2 nights ago the home of a registration worker as well as of an applicant to the university of mississippi. was shot at. and only yesterday the violence erupted into a clash between a group of negroes and local law enforcement officers. in february i inquired of the attorney general as to the suit which had been filed against the united states for an order directing the department of justice and other agencies of the federal government to take action against state law enforcement officials who interfere with negro voter registration and voting in mississippi. the attorney general replied that "the department of justice is presently employing all the powers and authority available to it under federal law to prevent interference with negro voter registration activity and voting." the attorney general then described 11 cases the department has begun under the 1957 act in mississippi. in one the government was successful in enjoining the state from prosecuting a young registration worker in walthall county for disturbing the peace. he had been hit over the head with a gun by the county registrar of voters when he brought local negroes in to attempt registration. a second suit. in greene county. was dismissed and is pending on appeal. a negro school teacher. who had been a witness for the government in a pending voting case. was dismissed from her teaching position because of it. the remaining nine cases. it is to be assumed. will go onperhaps for years. the administrations recommendations on voting. where their proposals are strongest. do  look heroic when set against the fact of the continued stubborn effort to deny negroes the voting right in certain southern states. a majority of the civil rights commission in its 1961 voting report recommended legislation providing. that all citizens shall have the right to register. vote. and have their votes counted. unabridged for any cause except inability to meet reasonable age or lengthofresidence requirements uniformly applied. legal confinement. or conviction of a felony. the commission unanimously recommended. in addition to substitution of the sixthgrade literacy test for voter registration in lieu of readily misapplied subjective tests. amendment of the 1957 act to prohibit any arbitrary action or. where there is a duty to act. inaction. which deprives anyone of the right to vote. and legislation directing the bureau of the census to making a nationwide survey of voting statistics. it also called for a congressional study of apportionment of legislative districting. which the supreme court ultimately dealt with in the landmark decision of baker against carr. aher telling instance of the judiciary being forced into a policy area by the press of history in this field which the congress seems almost totally unable to reflect. this much remains unadopted by the administration despite the fact that the civil rights commission. charged by law with the duty .to make such recommendations to the president and the congress. has recommended them and despite the emphasis 6f both party platforms. and of the presidents message.on the primacy of the right to vote. a final word about executive action in the voting field is in order. a conference held in february of this year at re dame university by distinguished legal authorities outlined the obstructions used by a number of southern communities to deny the vote to negroes and described them as "massive intimidation calculated to induce acute personal insecurity." the group concluded that the courts  have ample power to deal with this. with which i and the civil rights commission and the president and many others disagree. but i e that the group also concluded that: the department of justice must more urgently seek to bring its cases to trial. even over the reluctance of busy or unenthusiastic federal judges. * * * the government must seek  merely to unlock the doors of the voting booth for negro citizens. but to open the doors as clearly as they were previously closed to negro applicants. * * * finally. the time has come for federal recognition of power and obligation to assist by affirmative support the enfranchisement of negro citizens. the three remaining legislative proposals in the presidents special message relate basically to education. and it is with much satisfaction that i found at last proposals in the presidents message  only outside the area of voting but particularly in this area. which i have long felt to be the bedrock test of equal opportunity. i think it was most appropriate that. of all the discriminatory uses of public funds which might have been attacked first. it was in the area of public school desegregation that the new era of civil rights really began in -1954 with the brown against board of education decision. but. ironically. here the pace of federal action has been most sluggish. the only civil rights statutes since the civil war. the: 1957 and 1960 civil- rights acts. dealt with the right to vote: the presidents committee on equal employment opportunity first established by executive order in 1953 was a first step in the employment area. the executive order in housing last october began the federal effort in housing. the old civil rights acts of the civil war period. inadequate as they are. were a first step in the administration of justice field. but in education. which is the key to all the rest. the effort has been almost wholly left at the federal level to private suits brought one at a time. with the -limited resources of parents backed by funds collected by the legal defense fund of the naacp. the civil rights. commissions 1961 report stated that: seven years alter the supreme courts decision only 775 of 2.837 biracial school districts in the 17 southern states that required racial segregation in the public schools on that date had taken any action to abolish racial segregation. it also found that: in mniy of the school districts where some start has been made. actual desegregation is minimal. in fact only 7 percent of all negroes enrolled in the public schools in the 17 southern states attended school with white pupils in 196061. whereas 27 percent of the school districts have made some start toward compliance with constitutional requirements. in its more recent report "civil rights u.s.a.-public school southern states. 1962." the commission amends its findings to add that desegregation is limited "to 25 percent of the negro pupils enrolled in the school districts which. 8 years after the supreme court decision of 1954. have commenced desegregation .of their school system or annced policies to that effect."  the pattern has changed somewhat: the initial shock is over. school buildings are longer dynamited. national guardsmen longer use bayonets to bar children from schools. and state legislatures longer meet in special session to pour pounds of massive resistance into state statute books. initial assignment of pupils by race. using pupil placement laws. dual school zone maps. and other means. and transfer provisibns tied to race characterize the present trend. the administrations reaction to this is a threepart proposal: technical and financial aid to school districts in the process of desegregating. elimination of the separatebutequal language which shockingly remains on the books in the morrill land grant college acts. and expansion of the civil rights commission so that it can act as a clearinghouse for information. advice. and technical assistance to any agency public or private which requests it. the last of these proposals is  limited in the special message to education. although in the 1961 commission report on education it was a concomitant of the proposal to offer technical and financial assistance to desegregating school districts. where it will be most useful. these proposals ige the bulk of the civil rights commission recommendations in this area. the key proposal of the cornmissionand of thedemocratic platform of 1960was a requirement that every local school board which maintains any public school from which pupils are excluded on the basis of race. must file a plan for desegregation with a designated federal agency within 6 months after the adoption of the legislation. -the plan to call for at least a first step toward compliance with the brown decision at the beginning of the following school year. and complete desegregation as soon as practicable thereafter. in their reports on similar legislation in 1962 both the departments of justice and of health. education. and welfare favored such provisions. . the second vital recommendation in the commission report and the democratic platform which is iged is the granting of power to the attorney general to enforce the desegregation decision by appropriate civil actions in the federal courts. broadened to include enforcement of all constitutional rights. this was the famous part iii of the 1957 act which was deleted under threat of filibuster. finally. and perhaps most significantly. the commission report recommended that 50 percent of federal financial aid to elementary and secondary schools should be withheld where desegregation has taken place and that a smaller proportion should be withheld where a program of desegregation has been initiated until it has been completed. here the -president recommended only elimination of the "separatebutequal" clause in the morrill land grant college acts. but in the remaining and even more significant problems of federal aid to segregated educational facilitiesin impacted areas. particularly those in which children of military personnel are required to attend segregated public schoolsthe administration continues to rely on executive action. yet just last year when testifying before a house of representatives subcommittee. the thensecretary of health. education. and welfare said that executive action was necessarily limited when congress had  spoken: "if meaningful changes are to occur." he said. "if new. affirmative steps are to be taken. congress -must take legislative action." i agree. the proposed executive action is understood to involve having integrated school . facilities built onbase for. military dependents while leaving the segregated facilities offbase where they are. criticism against this scheme. which has already been registered by civil rights groups. is  unwarranted. in my judgment. the question then remains. why has the administration . heeded its own position last year and the civil rights commission recommendation and asked for meaningful legislation for this purpose. or. if it  believes that executive action short of legislation is appropriate. why  adopt the commissions recommendation by cutting down the federal assistance in proportion to compliance with the brown decision. in regard to the part iii power. the special message glosses over the prince edward county case. which has for the past 3 years presented the spectacle of a populous county adjacent to the nations capital without a system of public education in order to frustrate the school desegregation order of the u.s. supreme court directed to this very county in 4lae brown case. when the schools were closed. the justice department attempted to assert an inherent right to intervene as a part in the suit brought privately. it failed in the district court and did  appeal. at this point the u.s. court of appeals for the fourth circuit has permitted the attorney general to appear as amicus curiae. or friend of the court. the president described this as having "intervened." the difference may appear technical to the layman but -it is an important one. as a friend of the court the attorney generals powers and responsibilities are limited to advising the court.. he can call witnesses and marshal the evidence. the expense of prosecuting the case to the supreme court if necessary. which is estimated -at $15.000 per pupil. is still the responsibility of the private plaintiff. there are too many segregated school districts. e of which will consider the decision in any other districts case binding upon it. for this haphazard and costly procedure. this exhausts the administrations legislative proposals in this 100th year of emancipation. apart from the shortfall in the voting area and particularly in the education field. there remain the subjects of employment. housing. administration of justice and public facilities. many of these subjects were mentioned in the special message. e were deemed to warrant legislative proposals. yet. the civil rights commission report in 1961 found that: negro workers are still disproportionately concentrated in the ranks of the unskilled and semiskilled in both private and public employment. they are also disproportionately represented among the unemployed. since then the unemployment rate has risen to such alarming heights that the president has. quite properly. made ecoic measures to combat it the highest priority in his -legislative program. the 1960 democratic platform called for creation of a federal fair -employment practices commission. which would. according to legislation introduced in the senate. cover all employment affected by interstate commerce and would have enforcement power in the federal courts. the civil rights commission recommended a statutory base for the existing presidents committee on equal employment opportunity. which would cover employment by the federal government. by those who contract with the federal government. in programs supported or in facilities constructed by federal grantsinaid. or by affected labor organizations. instead of taking either of these courses. the president made much of the record of the existing committee on equal employment opportunity. which is created by executive order and has power of subpena or real corrective power. but that record has been seriously questioned within the last year. at one point there were reports in the press of conflicts of philosophies and personalities which were reputed to be impairing the effectivenessof the committee. it was reported that the "plans for progress" program. a campaign of voluntary compliance which one of the committee members undertook to create. was giving employers an excuse for  complying in reality with the executive order requiring discrimination in hiring and promotion. and was in fact operating as a weakening substitute for the enforcement activities of the committee itself. since then both the member involved and the staff director have resigned. the merits of the situation are important as showing the need for federal legislation. for either a fullscale fepc or at least a statutory base defining the powers and duties of the presidents committee. the southern regional council made a survey of the plans for progress program in atlanta. ga.. where 24 of the original 52 signers of the plans for progress had plants. offices or regional headquarters. the result of the survey. published in january. 1963. is that "the plans for progress were. for the regional office in atlanta. largely meaningless." the report states: for every company which wants to keep its promise to the presidents committee on equal employment opportunity. there are several which view the plans lightlyor who somehow believe that the program does  affect their deep south operations. * * * to sum up. indications are that the interpretation of the voluntary and affirmative provisions of the program is being left to the individual signers themselves. even organizations. such as the aflcio. which do  view the experience of the committees last 2 years as negatively as this judgment would indicate. etheless recommend that a federal fair employment practices law is vitally needed and should be enacted. meanwhile questions have also been raised about other uses of federal funds relating to employment. apprenticeship training programs. the public employment offices established in the various states under federal law. and  the new manpower training act program have all been questioned as to whether equal opportunity has been. or in the case of the last. will be afforded. in a report to the president in august 1961. by the leadership conference on civil rights. the apprenticeship training and employment service programs were identified as denying equal opportunity. the civil rights commission report of 1961 contained a finding as to all federal funds for training and placement that a policy of equal opportunity "has yet to be made consistent or thoroughly effective." e of these programs was mentioned in the presidents special message. one final word should be said about the emphasis in the special message upon the drive to have the national labor relations board take action against racial discrimination in unions as an unfair labor practice under existing law. the plan is an excellent one. but it should  delude anyone into believing that it is a substitute for a fair employment practices law. the great majority of employees in the united states. even in interstate commerce. is still union. and the reach of the proposed drive is simply too short. in addition. the effect of such proceedings upon employers is still unkn. the executive order barring discrimination in housing. issued by the "stroke of the pen" after almost 2 years of delay. fell far short of the civil rights commission recommendation that it direct "all federal agencies concerned with housing and with home mortgage credit to shape their policies and practices to make the maximum contribution" to the achievement of equal opportunity in housing. the commission had found as a fact that: of the many federal agencies concerned with housing and home mortgage credit. e has attempted to exert more than a semblance of its authority to secure equal access to the housing benefits it administers. or to insure equal treatment from the mortgage lenders it supports and supervises. . the executive order failed to reach: first. all housing constructed under contracts entered into prior to ember 20. 1962. including public housing. fha- and vainsured housing. housing on urban renewal sites. and housing for the elderly and urban renewal projects whose preliminary contracts but  final loan and grant contracts were executed prior to ember 20. 1962. and second. conventional mortgage loans  directly insured or guaranteed by the federal government. but made by institutions which operate under federal supervision. such as those whose deposits are insured by fdic or fslic. the areas covered by the orderfha- and vainsured mortgagesaccount for only approximately 25 percent of the total volume of residential financing. the exclusion of these large areas in housing from the discrimination order was  dictated by legal or constitutional incapacity. the 5th and 14th amendments to the constitution bar the discriminatory use of federal revenues for any purpose. including housing. and a constitutional mandate does  require an executive order to make itself effective and therefore is  limited to prospective application. as would be legislation which affected previously incurred contract obligations. . i believe that the narrowness of the executive order will  avoid difficulty. as the administration apparently hoped. but will instead. bring on further difficulty. already there are reports in the press of a new development to open to negroes housing  covered by the order. "dwellins" parallel to the sitins which have been so widely used in the lunch counter cases. the first efforts are planned for the th. because as one negro leader says. "there are so many things in the south that take precedence over housing." in addition. a civil rights commission report issued last year called for special action in the field of housing in the district of columbia. in addition to the general executive order. the final report of the 1961 series by the civil rights commission concerned the administration of justice. which cuts across many of the other areas of civil rights because local police authorities are the principal contact between citizens. both negro and white. and the legal structure of their communities. to this extent constitutional protections in the administration of justice are the concern of all citizens in all parts of the country: in those states in the south where that political and social structure is devoted to maintaining a system of segregation. it is the local police who principally sustain the states policy. where. for example. there is intimidation against negroes who organize to attempt to register and vote. it is the local police who most effectively create and maintain the climate of fear. either affirmatively. by harassing arrests on trivial or unfounded charges or passively. by failing to prosecute private persons who commit acts of violence. the recent sharp report by the mississippi advisory committee to the u.s. civil rights commission. consisting of citizens of mississippi. both white and negro. stated that: in all important areas of citizenship. a negro in mississippi receives substantially less than his due consideration as an american and as a mississippian. after listing a number of areas which bear this out. including hospitals. schools. jobs. voting. and even cemeteries. the committee devoted its entire report to police brutality. describing it as "a subject that has implications even more damaging to the principles of the american way of life than denial of the right to vote." the committee said that what they found in their own state regarding police brutality was "a profound shock" to them. even their factfinding efforts were. in their own words. "actively opposed by agents and instrumentalities of the state government." the cases they describe are indeed shocking. as a result of their investigation the committee recommended that the u.s. civil rights commission hold hearings in mississippi on a regular. periodic basis. that the commission recommend ad-. ditional legislation to the congress. and that the president direct the department of justice to investigate every allegation of physical abuse of authority by state or local officials in that state "and institute criminal proceedings in all cases in which such action appears to be warranted. regardless of the prospects for convictions." the presidents message referred to incidents of harassment in discussing the right to vote. presumably his recommendations to amend the 1957 and 1960 civil rights acts are intended to deal with these problems as if they all related to the right to vote. yet the civil rights commission devoted an entire volume in its 1961 reports to this subject and made four legislative recommendations: a grantinaid program to increase the professional quality of state and local police forces. amendment of the old civil rights act provision. which made deprivation of ahers civil rights a misdemea. so that it is effective. amendment of the provision which afforded a right of action so that it makes the local governmental entity whose employee is responsible for the deprivation of rights jointly liable. with the employee. and the granting of part iii power to the attorney general to prevent the exclusion of negroes from jury service. the piesidents proposals iged these recommendations entirely. a sixth area of federal concern which has  been dealt with formally by any one civil rights commission report to date. although i am advised that the commission is looking into it. is public accommodations. which embraces both facilities supported in whole or in part by federal or state funds. and facilities which are entirely privately supported and operated but which fall within the ambit of federal jurisdiction over interstate commerce. federal and statesupported facilities have been discussed in part in the education. employment. and housing areas. the issue arises in connection with each new federal or state program as it becomes law. one additional aspect should be mentioned since it does  fall readily within any of those areas: the hillburton hospital survey and construction act contains the only other explicit segregation provisionseparate but equalapart from the already mentioned provision in the morrill land grant college acts. why the president recommended the elimination of the latter provision but  the former is difficult for me to understand. the fact that the naacp has brought suit in two hospital segregation cases does  offer a satisfactory distinction since the many suits in the education field would present an equal opportunity to avoid requesting legislation. the special message devotes an entire section to public accommodations and describes a number of instances of real progress. it fails to e. however. that the desegregation of interstate bus and rail terminals was achieved under. discrimination clauses in existing law and that desegregation of airports was achieved only after repeated assaults were made by me on the senate floor on appropriations for the airport terminal construction program. racial incidents in national parks. forests. and other federally supported recreation areas are continually reported. i regret to e. problems continue to arise in connection with members of the armed services aihd their dependents. the issue of segregated schools has been discussed earlier. but the use of other public facilities. those financed by tax revenues and those simply open to the general public. remains an unsolved problem. a report issued this month by the south dakota advisory committee to the u.s. civil rights commission describes an ugly situation which developed in rapid city as to servicemen from nearby ellsworth air force base. the committee found that most people in rapid city. including its responsible leaders and officials. are against discriminatory practices. but it said concerted community action would be needed to head off the "forces of selfinterest. igance. and bigotry." i am pleased to e that. since publication of the report. south dakota has enacted a public accommodations antidiscrimination law. the president last year appointed a committee on equal opportunity in the armed forces and the civil rights commission has tackled .the job of investigating the entire problem. it is my fervent hope that segregation in national guard units throughout the south. aher startling anachronism. will at last be ended. but a greater problem is glossed over altogether. that of public facilities generally. in interstate commerce. including hotels. motels. and other such places providing lodging and services to travelers across state lines. the president es. quite rightly. that: act is more contrary to the spirit of our democracy and constitutio more rightly resented by a negro citizen who seeks only equal treatmentthan the barring of that citizen from restaurants. hotels. theaters. recreational areas. and other public accommodations and facilities. but he offers hope of a solution to that problem beyond banning segregation in the immediate bus. train and plane facilities. the national parks and forests. and space leased in government buildings. what about hotels and restaurants. must we wait for repetitions of the incidents within the past 2 years of a high federal official who is negro being denied a room in a texas hotel. or foreign diplomats being barred from entering restaurants along an interstate highway. constructed with 90 percent federal funds. and if diplomats who are negroes are to be protected by state department "persuasion." how explain  protecting u.s. citizens who happen to be negroes. a recent very interesting article in the hotel monthly surveys racial and religious discrimination in the hotel industry and concludes. quite properly. that the "evolution" which is the result of state department efforts regarding diplomats. the antidiscrimination public accommodation laws in effect in half the states. the trend toward attracting conventions. and the pressure of ecoics. is a slow process and that. unless the industry itself decides to do something about it. the negro organizations may well make a strong public issue of it to the ecoic detriment of the industry. to me this is a healthy position for a trade journal to take. but it is also a powerful indictment of the subordinate and reluctant position of the federal government in the drive to achieve rights guaranteed by the federal constitution. in my view. while identifying the problem. the president should also have recommended legislation to reach those facilities which are affected by interstate commerce. the national labor relations board already applies the federal labor laws to hotels which have substantial income from interstate commerce. so that the constitutional reach of federal power is well established. that the statutory rights of employers and employees in such facilities should be more diligently protected than the constitutional rights of all american citizens to use those facilities is wholly unsupportable. i therefore believe that advocates of civil rights legislation must wage a campaign throughout this year in order to build up support for a fulldress civil rights effort at the next opportunity. probably when the extension of the life of the u.s. civil rights commission. which expires this year. comes to the senate floor. the crucial test will then come on cloture motions requiring a twothirds vote to close debate on substantive civil rights amendments. let one in the united states mistake this fact: the most important civil rights vote cast by any senator in 1963 and 1964 has been and will be his vote on a motion to close debate on a civil rights measure. the first victory on a cloture motion on such a civil rights measure is the key which will unlock the iron gate which has for so long barred really important civil rights legislation. it will have brought the whole field of civil rights legislation into the second half of the 20th century. and we would then see really effective action in this field such as the national situation so much demands. i believe the best evidence of this prediction is the unprecedented desperation of the opposition to a rule xxii change by opponents of civil rights legislation at the opening of this session. we on the other side advocate some really intensive and vigorous presidential leadership. the president will go to the country again in 1964. he will appeal to the same groups which have heretofore supported him. they have supported him to a far greater extent than they have supported republican candidates. he owes them something in real american terms. it is *our duty. at the very least. to see that if he is to seek their franchise. he should be brought face to face with what must be delivered as a result of it. let us remember that this does  involve only the president. it also involves the majority in the congress. it involves the very committees which pass upon the very bills about which we are talking. which have democratic party majorities. a party obtains big things in our country when it wins a national election. at least it ought to give something in return. especially to those who are electing the members of that party in terms of national policy. i have attempted to outline both the background and the possibilities which faced the president when he delivered his special message. and i have attempted to match against both the background and the possibilities the legislative measures which the president there proposed. i believe the conclusion inescapably to be drawn from that comparison is that the president has seriously neglected the most substantial part of the unanimous recommendations of the u.s. civil rights commission and of his own partys platform. i do  question his good faith in what he has proposed.  have i ever done so.  do i question the importance of actions taken and to be taken in the executive department by the attorney general and the president. but i deeply believe that the president has asked for so. much less than those in a position of great responsibilitythe members of the u.s. civil rights commissionhave proposed with great soberness and forethought. that his program is gravely inadequate to the need. i say this particularly because this is the centennial of the emancipation proclamation. the presidents program does  measure up to what this event symbolizes: a great crusade for what common human decency has  yet provided. what a great civil war has  yet provided. and what a century since then has  yet provided--equality of opportunity for negroes in voting. education. employment. housing. the administration of justice. and public accommodations. i am proud to be among this group of republicans who today introduce a series of bills based upon the civil rights commission recommendations. which we believe to be a program which is worthy of the emancipation proclamation centennial. . i ask unanimous consent that i may introduce out of order. for appropriate reference. for myself and senators beall. case. fong. keating. kuchel. and scott. bills relating to the administration of justice. a bill to protect civil rights by providing criminal and civil remedies for unlawful violence. and for other purposes. and a bill to provide federal assistance to state and local police forces through projects to develop and demonstrate more effective techniques and practices of law enforcement.
