. i have five points to mention on this matter. first. congress should make its promises into realities as quickly as the merits require.  as slowly as the procedures permit. for example. the bill to extend the antipoverty program through june. 1967 is just  being considered by the house and is only at the subcommittee level in the senate labor and public welfare committee. until that bill. and the subsequent supplemental appropriations bill. are enacted. new antipoverty programs can be launched and existing ones can only be continued at their present levels under a continuing resolution. why was this necessary. congress could have taken these actions during the first 6 months of the year instead of creating these delays. especially delays in such crucial aspects of the antipoverty program as the summer programs. the same sort of timing has infected other programs primarily aimed at the disadvantaged. such as the elementary and secondary education bill and the higher education bill. congress is very much to blame if. after all the brave words about enacting pioneering antipoverty legislation. it waits too long to follow through with appropriations. second. the administrationand the congressshould stop watching the budget as if the antipoverty programs were endlessly negotiable. the nation can wait for carefully thought out longterm research. it needs action quickly. and in sufficient amount to make a dent in a sballing situation. the executive branch should  seek. as it has. to obstruct the congress in increasing the antipoverty budget from $1.75 to $1.9 billion. it should  do it in education. or housing. or hospitals. if a tax increase is needed. as i believe it will be. to finance these increases. we should vote a tax increase.  trim these budgets as if the problem they are designed to meet can waitit will . third. the congress should enact a strengthened antidiscrimination in housing provision. which is pending in title iv of the omnibus civil rights bill. a crucial feature of the ghetto environment is the inability of negroes to find housing outside the ghetto. particularly in the suburbs. even when they can afford to pay for it. fourth. the congress should enact a strengthened equal employment opportunity law. without open access to jobs. negroes will never be able to become full participants in our ecoy. under the existing lawtitle vii of the civil rights act of 1964the equal employment opportunity commission is swamped with complaints and can do very little about them. the commission must have enforcement powers like all the other federal regulatory agencies. the bill  at the desk would grant such power. if the bill is  called up soon. i shall offer it as an amendment to the civil rights bill when the civil rights bill is called up here. it must be acted on. fifth. the congress should enact home rule for the district of columbia. at issue here is selfdetermination and the dignity of the individual. which is more precious to the negro than even might or money. these suggestions are  a panacea but they are capable of effecting significant improvement. they can be most effective in a climate where negroes have rejected violence. and where whites offer compassion. control. and contribution. in the first "long. hot summer" of 1964. we had riots in new yorks harlem and rochester and in newark. n.j. last year. watts exploded. and this year chicago and cleveland. as one who has been active in the civil rights movement. i was among the first to speak out 2 years ago. deploring the violence and urging an end to looting and destruction. today. i reiterate with all the force at my command. the view that such action can only harm the civil rights movement and impede its acceptance. in the past 2 years. civil rights legislation has been signed. sealed. and delivered before the dog days of summer. rioting had its impact. but it did  stop the passage of vitally needed legislation. this year. we can be as sure. we are in the midst of enacting a new lawwith a vital fairhousing sectionand we can k what effect lawlessness could have on its passage. this pragmatic realityif othershould be in the minds of civil rights leaders and supporters seeking to restore and preserve order this summer. before 1964. it may indeed have been true that the negro did  have access to the prescribed forms for the redress of his very real grievances. to make his just complaints kn he resorted to civil disobedience and demonstrations. but in 1964. we took a giant step toward getting this conflict off the streets and into the courts and voting booths. the nation gave the negro at least some real opportunity to exercise the power of the litigant. the power of the voter. the power of an organized miity exerting legitimate political pressure. violence may be the power of the inarticulate. but the american negro  has a voice which is heard in the congress. in the white house. in the statehouses. and in the highest courts of the land. this kind of power is his best weapon for equal opportunity and he should use it. violence may only destroy it. we have heard a great deal about black power lately. indeed news reports indicate that it was a phrase used during the riots in cleveland earlier this week. it is a phrase that has been opposed by some negro leaders and has caused dissent and uneasiness in the american community generally. i consider this phrase to be essentially a rallying cry for the leaders of core and sncc. but the fact is that its use has sent a wave of deep concern through american communities with important negro populations because it is thoughtrightfully or wrongfullyto be departure from the policy of violence. which had given the civil rights movement such dignity. to a forceful use of power whether lawful or . i hope very much that the use of the phrase "black power" will be rejected because of the alarm which it createdprobably unnecessarilyand the concern which it engendered in the communities which alone can give relief to the injustices which black power was meant to redress. our nation can afford what the national security and the national interest demands and it certainly demands action on a much more accelerated and broader basis with the needed resources than we are  giving in the civil rights struggle. when we put ourselves in the position of doing what needs to be done then we are in a much better position to demand as of right that civil disobedience has place in the civil rights movement. the legal position is  impregnable but our moral position will be much improved by what i have suggested. at a time of great international responsibility for the united states. the security of the homefront and its tranquillity becomes as important as any part of the struggle for freedom and justice in the world. i -have been strongly in opposition to those who would oppose our effort in vietnam on the ground that it distracts us from the civil rights effort at home. but i am also very strongly for the idea that while we pursue what the nations interest demands in vietnam we should at the same time pursue what the nations interest demands in the united states and count ourselves fortunate that. we are able to do it. as indeed we are. in exhorting the negro to mature participation in our society. the concomitant responsibilities of whites must also be stated. i see these as three: compassion. control. and contribution. first. compassion: the lament which members of congress hear most frequently from their constituents runs something like this: "my grandfather came to this country 75 years ago as a poor man. he worked long and hard. and ody gave him anything for hing. he faced discrimination and ecoic hardship. but he overcame them and sent his sons to college. why cant the negroes do that. why are they special. why should we be taxed to help them." it is a legitimate question. and one which should be considered and answered honestly. in my judgment. the american negro is different from any immigrant group. and he is different because the white man has made him so. for 250 years. negroes in this country were slaves. unable to live as families. strong family tiesso important in other immigrant groupsare  present as often for support. encouragement. and stability. and may  evolve adequately for generations. we must understand this situation and work with it instead of piously deploring a condition which was brought about by our own ancestors. for 350 years. the negro has been outside the mainstream of our society for an initial generation as were other groups. but for centuries. he has suffered poor schooling. unequal justice and social exclusion unkn to any of our ancestors. its effects have been accumulating and like an unloved individual who eventually reaches a breaking point. the whole negro society could explode with frustration and rejection. we must recognize this emotion and act to remove the barriers to understanding instead of creating new ones in anger and fear. an eastern european diplomat recently commented to me: we have slums in our country. too. but yours seem so much worse because the contrast with the affluence of the rest of your country is so much greater. our ancestors may have been poor. but there were  many americans who were very rich. immigrants may have envied the industrial barons of the late 19th century. but they were  constantly told that they should be living in the same manner.. but. a negro in watts. or chicago or harlem can escape the allpervasive communications and advertising media of our time which are constantly telling him that he needs a second car. an air conditioner. and a swimming pool when he does  even have a bicycle and an open fire hydrant. in july of 1898. when the temperature reached 100 dcgrees. rich and poor were uncomfortable. today. only the slumdweller takes to the streets at night in search of a cool breeze. in 1898. only the sons of rich men went to college. today. a college degree is longer a luxury. but almosta necessity. in 1898. the immigrant lived primarily in his own society where his aspirations and achievements were measured against those of his contemporaries. today. because every citizen is in continuous communication with all parts of our society. expectations have risen. we must ackledge this change and capitalize on it. instead of refusing to admit that circumstances have altered our times. finally. the negro is different today. because we ourselves are different. the nation has never been more productive or more powerful. never have our resources and our talents been so great. never have we had the time. the interest. and the ability available today to turn our efforts toward social justice. there is  one of us. i believe. who would  agree that if america had been this rich and able in 1898. we should have done more to help the immigrant groups. a sign advising that "irish need  apply" was just as reprehensible in 1898 as the label "whites only" is today. it is regrettable that our resources were  directed at social ills a century ago. and it is praiseworthy that so many overcame these obstacles without the assistance of the government. but because some people survive smallpox does  mean that the vaccine should  be given to all as soon as it is available. we must welcome this opportunity and offer assistance instead of hoarding our help  that we can afford it. second. control: the race problem in this country began in 1619 when the first slaves were put ashore at jamestown. it has been building for 350 years. and it will  be solved in a day. it is my guess that we are  in for a "long. hot summer." but rather for a long hot decade. within the next 10 years. 8 out of 10 of our largest cities will be more than half negro. and it is in these population centers that trouble is most likely to occur. there may indeed be violence. and there will be conflict over school districting. housing. employment. and unemployment. but if the white community reacts with violence. the foundations of our society will be shaken. understanding. determination and a tremendous amount of selfcontrol will be needed. we k the damage which can be done by lawless sheriffs and judges who themselves believe in white supremacy. we have seen that it is corruption and callous insensitivity in the white community which can aggravate an already explosive situation. whites must impose upon themselves the highest standards of lawful conduct if we are to expect the same from negroes. third. contribution: compassion and control on the part of the white community will enable the negro to make some progress on his own. but the absence of conflict is  egh. we must be ready to make positive contributions. this is why i have urged the inauguration of the "marshall plan for deprived americans." and why i will continue to urge the congress and the executive branch to act on measures which can provide immediate assistance to people forced to live in the ghettos of this country. in short. all americans must express their indignation over recent racial violence and make every attempt to head off future outbreaks that could endanger the success of the civil rights struggle. but all americans must match this indignation with action designed to alleviate conditions spawned by centuries of inadequate education. housing. employment opportunities and the daytoday indignities of racial discrimination.
