. the establishment of a national center for biological resources. is an important first step in our efforts to conserve our biological resources--before they become endangered or threatened. i commend senator moynihan. the chairman of the environment and public works committee for his leadership on this issue. although we hear a great deal about the destruction of tropical rainforests and the resulting loss of biological diversity abroad. the disappearance of our own biological resources is  as well publicized. yet. the loss of species and the natural communities they inhabit is a serious problem in this country. where over 728 species are listed as endangered or threatened and thousands more are candidates for listing under the endangered species act. one problem is that we lack an adequate inventory of our own biological resources. the keystone report on biological diversity concluded that only a small fraction of our public lands have been inventoried for biological diversity. in addition. the report found that existing inventories did  include large classes of species. such as invertebrates and vascular plants. how can we conserve our biological resources if we do  k what they are and where they are located. this amendment will create a national center which will collect and organize vital information on our biological resources and make this data available to the scientific community and the public. thereby acting as a clearinghouse of biological data. the center will also provide assistance and grants for research regarding biological resources to experts both in and outside of government. including state natural heritage programs. the state heritage programs are computer inventories of biological and ecological features of particular states. any national inventory should be coordinated with and make extensive use of the 50state heritage programs databases. procedures. and techogy. kledge regarding biological resources is of interest and value to more than just scientists. this is  a futile. academic exercise. for instance. more than 40 percent of all prescription drugs are derived from plants and other organisms. yet. fewer than 3 percent of the worlds kn species have been examined for possible use as medicines. this data could also be used to develop and improve agricultural crops and in biotechogy research. such kledge will benefit all of us. the adoption of this provision will help us reach our goal of better understanding our living resources before they disappear. this is a case where little kledge is truly a dangerous thing. our goal is to expand kledgeto improve our understanding of the world around us.
