madam chairman. i rise in support of the bill as reported by the foreign affairs committee. while  absolutely perfect. and while the 120day limit should in my view be a much shorter period. etheless this bill does provide a new mechanism whereby congress and. indeed. any member of congress can bring to a vote a preferential motion to end hostilities where u.s. troops have been committed. moreover. the mechanism provided authorizes congressional action under a concurrent resolution. a vehicle which is  subject to presidential veto. and requires a simple majority vote of both bodies of the congress. if a veto were authorized. on the other hand. it could be sustained in either body of congress by a simple onethird plus one. i believe the bill we have before us tonight would return the power to end hostilities to the american people. and to a majority of their elected representatives. this legislation provides that any hostilities the president unilaterally enters into or any significant enlargement of hostilities already in progress shall automatically be terminated within 120 days unless. of course. congress declares war or enacts special authorizing legislation. in sum. i believe that this bill returns a specific measure of balance to the congress and returns to them mechanisms to enable them to uphold their constitutional powers.
. listen to this extraordinary achievement: one ship. the robert e. peary. was constructed in 4 days and 15 hoursa complete liberty ship was built in 4 days and 15 hours. there was hing there in the ways and 4 days and 15 hours later the ship was launched and ready to go. this record has never been approached since. at the height of world war ii. vessels were being launched by the kaiser shipyard at the rate of one per day. despite this pace. torpedo attacks were sinking the ships faster than they could be built. so the navy turned to mr. kaiser to take on the task of building 50 small aircraft carriers. these baby flat tops. as they were called. were designed to lead convoys through submarine packs as well as protect them from air. attacks. they established an amazing escort and combat record. prompting sir winston churchill to declare that they turned the tide in the battle of the th atlantic. by his efforts. henry kaiser demonstrated that this country could achieve a level of industrial production  believed possible. kaiser shipsof which there were about 1.500were built in twothirds of the time and at 25 percent less cost to the government than the average of other shipyards. while henry kaiser is rightfully remembered by many people for many reasons. i believe that his achievements during those war yearsthe enviable production records that his companies establishedare particularly important for us to recall. thus. it is with great pride that i join in the commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the birth of this extraordinary american.
 for his wisdom in recognizing the great value of the mutual restraint policy. a decision  to undercut the salt limitations will keep us on the road to aher united statessoviet summit and a new arms control treaty.
 for his wisdom in recognizing the great value of the mutual restraint policy. a decision  to undercut the salt limitations will keep us on the road to aher united statessoviet summit and a new arms control treaty.
a month ago this coming saturday. i had the privilege. along with several other senators.. of attending at the nixon library in yorba linda. ca. the very moving funeral services for s stressed pat nixons devotion to her family. her courage and tenacity in adversity. and her warmth and grace. although i did  k mrs. nixon intimately. i did participate with her in one particular event that gave me a chance to observe closely many of the traits that so endeared her to our citizens. the occasion was the christening of the u.s.s. california. a nuclear powered cruiser. at the newport news shipyard on september 22. 1971. nearly 22 years ago. at the time. i was secretary of the navy and mrs. nixon came to newport news to perform the christening. she flew to folk that morning and i was immediately struck by the fact that she had but one aide with her. as opposed to the large retinue that so often seemed to accompany vips that i had dealt with at other naval ceremonies. during the course of that day. which involved considerable moving aboutfrom airport to shipyard. to country club for a luncheon. to airport againmrs. nixon could  have been more helpful  less demanding of all who were involved in the occasion. she clearly did  want any extra attention.  to put anyone to extra trouble. mrs. nixon was a joy to be withlively. interested in all she saw.- quick to accommodate herself to her duties and always thoughtful of others. i was tremendously impressed and so grateful that i had those few hours with her. pat nixon was a wonderful person and epitomized everything that the word "lady" implies.
i shall discuss the amendment briefly. it simply affects one factor in the bill. specifically. it will bring the cost of the proposed legislation down to zero. as written at present. the bill permits the sale of five passenger ships to foreign purchasers under certain conditions. i voted against the amendment of the senator from south carolina . i support that aspect of the bill. my amendment directs attention to that section of the bill which requires payment by the united states of america in the amount of $12.860.000 to repurchase the united states and put it in the reserve fleet for possible use as a troop ship. the amendment. however. would allow the owners of the united states to dispose of their vessel under the same conditions as the rest of the vessels listed in the bill. therefore. they will  be discriminated against. i see obligation on the part of the government to make this kind of outlay of funds. the reason given is that it might be necessary to use the vessel as a troop ship in the future. the same reasoning might be applied to the other passenger ships formerly operated under the american flag. the claim is that because the ship is named united states. it should therefore be a matter of pride that we lay out. roughly $13 million to retain it under government control. i submit that if that type of reasoning prevails. all that we would have to do would be to go around the countryside and label something "united states" and that would enable the government. when the time came. to buy it back. to me. this proposal is clearly for an expenditure of funds that is unnecessary for the purposes of the bill. to state it again. briefly. the main thrust of the bill is to permit the sale of long unused passenger vessels to foreign investors. with a reinvestment of the funds in shipbuilding in the united states. i commend that aspect of the bill. but to make an exception for this particular vessel. especially when it will entail a cost of $13 million. is unwarranted and uncalled for. the senator from louisiana pointed out. and excellently so. that the moneys being used to support the rich to take passenger cruises could well be used for the benefit of the poor. i say that the same reasoning should apply to this particular expenditure. therefore. i oppose such an expenditure and hope that i will gain the support of the senate in saving $13 million. which could certainly be spent in some better way.
i am very pleased to have the support of the distinguished senator from wisconsin. the senator is quite correct in his analysis of the amendment and what the amendment would do. as the mirv techogy has developed to date. we do  have the accuracy which would enable us to have a first strike against the soviet union. the russians k this and the united states. of course. ks this. but if we were to continue improving and perfecting our mirv techogy. the time would come when obviously we would have a first strike capability. the president and the secretary of defense have said that we are  seeking a first strike capability. one of our military leaders at one time made a statement which was interpreted as meaning the united states was seeking a first strike capability. but the president denied this in a letter. which i made public to the armed services committee and to the senate. in which the president made clear that we are  seeking such a capability. as the distinguished senator from wisconsin has well pointed out. this would be most provocative. and we do  seek it. all we are trying to do by this amendment is make explicit. write into law. the expressed policy of this administration that we will  perfect this mirv techogy to the point where it could become a first strike capability and be considered by the soviet union as having a first strike capability. such a threat could easily provoke them into further development and deployment to the point -where they would have a first strike capability. and the arms race could continue on indefinitely. out of balance. .so long as we are able to keep the mutual deterrents--and we can do this by limiting the mirv techogy.. as would be done by this amendmentthen. of course. there will be fear of either side having a first strike capability. this amendment would by means stop our deployment of mirv. i want to make that very clear. i think the senate should understand that. senate resolution 211. which i introduced in the senate a year or so ago. and which was passed by the senate by a vote of 72 to 6. never suggested a unilateral cessation of operational testing of mirv. it was a mutual cessation of operational testing of mirv. this. of course. would be something that would have to be done by the united states and the soviet union in the salt talks. but we just do  k at this point what is going to come out of salt. i think we are all hopeful and prayerful. in the interim. we are going ahead with mirv. as the senator well ks. so far as our poseidon and minuteman iii are concerned. we k that. that is public information. that is  secret information at all. the senator was  in the chamber when i discussed the other amendment in my prepared text. the other amendment would direct the defense department to develop a single warhead weapons system that could be used on poseidon or on minuteman iii. in the event that we are able to reach an agreement with the soviet union at the salt talks for a ban on mirv. then we would have a single reentry vehicle system that could be put onto our minuteman iii missile and our poseidon missile.
so long as the united states has only mirv systems for deployment on these two missiles. a proposed mirv limitation would be tantamount to a de facto reduction in u.s. strategic forces. this is an especially critical factor with regard to the poseidon system. since a number of submarines are being converted to a carry this missile and a mirv ban would mean that those subs could  be on station for a number of months. that is. until the poseidon missile was altered or the boats refitted to polaris missiles. thus. as a matter of simple prudence. the united states needs to prepare for the contingency of a mirv limitation by developing single reentry vehicle systems which could be mounted on these weapons. dr. john foster and other defense department spokesmen have alluded to precisely this possibility in remarking that minuteman iii and poseidon could be fitted for single warheads. it is im. portant to delay longer in undertaking the work to make this a live option. this amendment would explicitly authorize such work. i should perhaps mention that there are several advantages to pursuing such a development. mounting a single reentry vehicle on the poseidon could permit the submarines to operate at greater ranges from their targets. by increasing the maneuvering room for the boats. this option would contribute substantially to their invulnerability to attack by antisubmarine warfare forces. this is a significant advantage in its own right. but it could become even more so if the united states were gradually to evolve toward heavier reliance on the socalled "bluewater option." that is. concentrating the largest fraction of its deterrent forces at sea and reducing or phasing out fixedsite landbased missiles. i consider it premature to elect this option at this time. since i believe it could best be pursued in the context of a larger strategic arms agreement which limited asw forces as well as other weapons. if asw forces were  so limited. the invulnerability of seabased forces might erode over the longer term. nevertheless. the bluewater option is a serious candidate for coming decades and there could be a special value in the added operating space which a single rv poseidon would give our boats. the purpose of this amendment is quite simple. if salt produces a limit on mirv systems. we will need to have the option of installing single reentry vehicles on the expensive minuteman iii and poseidon missiles we are buying. i trust that the senate will agree that the department of defense should be encouraged to prepare for that contingency. and i hope my colleagues will accept thil modest amendment. . i trust that the distinguished chairman of the armed services committee will seriously consider accepting this amendment. as modified. authorizing the department of defense to do the research for a single warhead weapons system.
this is the aircraft engine research laboratory of the national advisory committee on aviation. secret investigations and developments in the aircraft industry are being carried on. involving such things as the development of jetpropulsion planes. this item is highly recommended by the army and navy. i myself visited the research laboratory. and i am sure it is an extremely valuable contribution toward the development of the aviation industry.
. to give encouragement to those who are building ships. manning ships. -and are engaged in international trade. if the congress of the united states is interested in maintaining a merchant marine which will meet our needs both in time of war and as a great instrumentality of peace and commerce. as we turn toward the greater mechanization of ships which will occur in the years which lie ahead. we realize that our merchant marine will offer  only an opportunity for those who build and sail ships. but which will call for the mechanics and engineers to operate and care for the engines and electrical machinery in the ships. the modern ship is a machine shop and electrical plant that calls for the same skills that have been the secret of americas successful international competition on land. as we look back at our history i can help but think. as i see before me the senior senator from maine . of the great history our country has had in connection with its merchant shipping. i hope the senator from maine will add today some remarks which will remind us of the great history of our american clipper ships. as well as the great problems which lie ahead for our country in connection with commerce on the seas.
i thank the senator from michigan. . article 37 recognizes the security council as an authoritative international body where a party to an international dispute. even though such party be a permanent member of the security council. can veto or even vote on the decision of the council upon the dispute to which it is a party. article 37 provides a disinterested tribunal before which any state. whether or  it be a member of the united nations. may present on its merits any dispute to which it is a party and which endangers the maintenance of international peace and security. this tribunal may recommend procedures or methods of adjustment. and even more. it may recommend concrete terms of settlement. if the world will fully recognize the necessity for justice. and a government of law among nations as well as among individuals. and if the world has truly outlawed war as an international policy. this tribunal may well become the tribunal of last resort for many disputes endangering the peace of the world. through this gate the world may find the longsought road to just and lasting peace among all nations.
. one always finds himself at a disadvantage in discussions with the eminent senator from mississippi on any subject. and on e more severely than on this matter. on which he has spent so much time. yet. with all deference and in great respect and in the highest affection. i think the mere fact that we have started to spend the money and have made contracts for long leadtime items for this weapon. should  deter us from stopping and having a further look. as the senator. of course. ks. we are  suggesting that the items for which contracts have been made be stopped. it is largely the propulsion system that is under contract. if i am  mistaken. that will go ahead. under our amendment. and the long leadtime items will  be delayed in any way. what we are talking about is work done by the shipyards. largely. the major part of the ship itself. as the senator ks. we are  even mostly concerned with this particular ship. this is  to say that the $377 million is hing. this is  peanuts. as the senator always has recognized. one is more careful than he about the money of the taxpayers. but what we really want to emphasize is that in derogation or in criticism of the executive branch or secretary laird or his predecessor or the joint chiefs or the navy department or anyone elsetheir views must be taken seriously into account by the congress. but. beyond that. congress has its own responsibility to make up its own mind. and it is the ultimate arbiter as to where -he publics money is going to go.
i have introduced. and i think other members of the house are interested in. bills dealing with the general situation of traffic fatalities in the united states which are today at a new alltime high. both in injuries and in deathsapparently killing and maiming more people on the highways than are being killed and maimed by the war in korea. i would like to k whether the committee has considered what can be done in the way of safety regulations on the roads aided by these grants.
. i present for appropriate reference a resolution adopted by the common council of the city of plattsburgh. n. y.. favoring the enactment of legislation to authorize the united states army corps of engineers to make a survey of a navigable inland waterway from the port of new york into lake champlain. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record.
. . addressing myself to aher subject. we find in a morning paper a report that the agriculture department is utilizing a charter agreement for ships which carry surplus agricultural products under public law 480. which has in it the same restrictive clause which has just been abandoned by the navy with respect to prohibiting these ships from calling at ports of the government of israel if the same ships propose to deliver cargo in arab ports. the new york times of today. in a news story which i ask unanimous consent be made part of my remarks. refers to a typical charter provision as saying "vessel is prohibited from calling at israeli waters or ports. transshipment is prohibited. vessel has  traded to israel ports."
the senator is exactly right. i may state to the senator from ohio that i. myself. was responsible for considerable activity in respect of "visit u.s.a." we dedicated a whole year to the idea "visit u.s.a. year." i was chairman of the foreign ecoic policy subcommittee in the other body when that idea was developed. and i was happy to see the senator from washington imr. magnuson] carry through to completion that idea in the senate. i am sure that we would ratherand i am certain that the senator from ohio joins me in this statementsee foreign tourists spending as much money in this country as our tourists spend abroad. we would like to see a greatly increased number of them visit our country. that is certainly our hope. just as it is our hope that many more of our people will travel all over the world. even many more than do today. however. when it comes to this issue as it relates to the question of balancing our international payments. it does seem to meand i am very much hoed to have the senator from ohio join me on this point--that it is aalous to shut our eyes when other governments place restrictions on their tourists. particularly countries in which the ecoic situation has improved so tremendously. and arbitrarily shut the door to their capability to lifting those restrictions. and at the same time expect us to do hing about the subjectunless they believe that we are inclined to be softheaded about all thisand therefore it seems to me that we may have to go through on this point. after all. big nations can bluff. we could well say to them. "lift your restrictions. or else." if the restrictions are  lifted. we should begin to apply our restrictions until theirs are lifted. it is the only language. apparently. in which we can speak in terms of hard realism. in the light of the financial and ecoic situation prevailing in those countries. they must  expect to continue cozily in the old way. which they adopted after world war ii under very different circumstances.
i am grateful to the senator. in discussing the political aspects of the test ban treaty. it is important to define what we mean by "political" so that the term will  be misunderstood in this context. it is important for the american people to understand that ecoic. social. public health. and moral aspects are inseparable from politics. politics. as i use it here. means success of the united states in the aims and objectives of its foreign policyjust as politics at home means success in the aims and objectives of a party or candidate. in the world it is the united states which is running. in a sense. for reelection. for continuance as leader of the free world. it is in that sense that i use the word "political." i have five points in that regard. and i should like to lay them before the senate and the country. first. and perhaps the most important political aspect of the treaty. is the fact that it commits chairman khrushchev by a consummated act to the road upon which he and his regime choose to embarkwhat he calls peaceful coexistence. but what we call a resolution of a cold war without an atomic war. this is very important. i say this as a lawyer. it is one thing for a to promise b that he will do something. it is quite a different thing for b to act on what a has promised. then a is bound. that is hornbook law. it is just as true in the affairs of men. the treaty would thus have a strong impact on current and future political discussions within the soviet union. if. as many experts believe it is to the interest of the present soviet leadership to keep demonstrating the possibility of making and keeping agreements with the west. and thus to confirm the desirability of some sort of coexistence on their part. then to that extent it benefits our own situation. and that of the whole free world. if we do  act. if we do  commit  of the committee on foreign relations has been there. and many other members of the senate have been thereks that when we speak with any of the soviet leaders whether it be khrushchev or mikoyan. they always talk about trade. they always ask. "why will you  do business with us. do you  k we are buying everything we need from west germany. holland. and belgium." of course they are. control over strategic materials is  as good as we would like to have it. but it is pretty good. we are  talking about that factor. we are talking about what is on the strategic list. in that respect. united states trade with the soviet union is practically nil. in money. as to both exports and imports. it amounts to about $100 million a year. we could  make it lower than that if we tried. it is practically meaningless. but soviet trade with the rest of the world is large. it is something in the area of $3 billion. and that is  inappreciable. when exports and imports are added. it comes to about 3 percent of the aggregate trade of the whole world. many countries. such as west germany. do a vast amount of business with the soviet union and its satellites. they like to keep quiet about it and  have it widely advertised. but it is a fact. it is such a real fact that the germans are much less afraid about what will happen in berlin than we are. because they k that the east germans depend very heavily upon their trade with the west germans and could  hurt them very badly if the trade lines were cut. that is a big leverage. in this respect. the whole free world. including our best allies. do a great amount of business with the communist bloc. we do practically e.
. let us remember that our forces are in south korea. and have been there for 14 yeirs. that south korea has  been neut ralized. but that. etheless. the confrontation between ourselves and the communist chinese in south korea has been a very restraining influence upon the communist chinese. and will continue to be for a very long time to come. let us remember also in respect of communist china tha. her incursion against india. her dea. with pakistan. the taking of tibet. and her assaults. which for the moment have ceased. on taiwan. certainly are  reassuring in terms of the intentions of communist china. which i believe are very clearto dominate the whole of the asian continent. with all due respect to the senator from montana. i believe he assumes far too much when he assum s that the relations between ho chi minh and moscow are better than the relations between ho chi minh and mao tsetung. i believe there are many proverb.. both eastern and western. to the effect that the tiger at the door is much more important than the tiger in the forest. it is inconceivable to rie. and to most americans. that ho chi minh could be carrying on this guerrilla war throughout south vietnam and car bodia and into laos without the friendship. support. and alliance of the communi:.t chinese. who are on his doorstep. and without whom he could  survive for 20 minutes.
the speech of the senator from connecticut is altogether too provocative and he has done his homework altogether too well for him to be complimented merely or. a good job. it is a good job. however. and i should like to join my colleagues from texas. south dakota. and other states who have said so. any time the senator devotes himself to this kind of work. it helps the country. the senator from connecticut has done a thorough job in presenting new ideas. this is the place for them. for we are  inhibited by the administration or its policies. especially when a democrat puts forth a good idea. one lack. as i have said before. is that retaliation has been pictured as a policy. it is  a policy. it is a reaction. we support it. we close ranks behind the president. we have common interests in it and in the losses. the losses break our hearts. but we try to do something about them. however. it is  a policy. the senator from connecticut is trying to work out a policy. whether it be a good or a bad policy. he is right in trying to work it out. because he proposes something positive. which takes us on a road where there is a big lack. that is what is causing doubts among the people as to whether this country is going to pull out of south vietnam or go forward. granting all that i have said. i should like to ask the senator some questions. in the first place. the senator does  deal with something that troubles many of us. and that is the question. "is there still a majority in south vietnam who do  want communism. do a majority of the people want to fight against it." we can fight a war without soldiers. that statement goes whether the fight is for an ideology or for freedom. that is one question we must always determine. we can put our head on other peoples shoulders and assume they are "buddies." we may. for example. be bitterly opposed in albania and other places. because the people there may want communism. they may like it. that is a very gnawing question with respect to south vietnam: what is the attitude of the people of the country. only a declaration of the president of the united states can answer. i k that is so often said that it must sound like a cliche. but it is the president who has the vast reservoir of intelligence information. i think all of us. withstanding difference of party. would accept a declaration on the facts by the president of the united states. we are talking about the presidency. it is  the man or party we are talking about. it is the office we are speaking of. so. first. we ought to have a declaration and assurance. based on the whole combination of intelligence. diplomatic. and military advice. that a majority still favors fighting communism in that country. i wish the senator would comment on that point.
. i thank my colleague. i point out that. be it said to the glory of the american people. while they feel very strongly about these disarmament effortsand i believe they dothis is  depreciative one whit of the national determination to fight if we must in order to preserve the values of freedom. this is all the more reason why we should show a similar generosity of spirit when it comes to finding out what can be done about putting ourselves and the world on the road to peace through arms control and disarmament.
. i have one question on aher subject which i should like to address to the senator from mississippi. we have a rather burning interest in new york in the new york naval shipyard. there are provisions in the house military procurement authorization bill. h.r. 6500. recently ordered reported by the house committee to be found on page 3. lines 4 to 20. inclusive. in two sections which deal with that subject. section 302 repeats. for practical purposes. the vinsontrammell act of 1934 with respect to allocation of new ship construction. i can understand why the senate committee felt that the act provided what it did. and that is sufficient. but i ice that section 303 of the house bill would abolish the socalled 6535 ratio for ship conversion. alteration. and repair. i understand that that is the desire of the secretary of defense. mr. mcnamara. the secretary testified at page 192 of his statement before the committee that removal of the 6535 formula would raise from 65 to 80 percent the quantity of work in the public yards on conversion. alteration. and repair. section 303 of the house bill providesthe assignment of naval ship conversion. alteration. and repair projects shall be made on the basis of ecoic and military considerations and shall  be restricted by requirements that certain portions of such naval shipwork be assigned to particular types of shipyards or to particular geographical areas or by similar requirements. this was a able point in the house bill and the senate report does  go into the subject. i suggest that perhaps the senator would want to give the senate a word of explanation as to its omission from the senate bill.
. it has always been my belief. buttressed by my trip to south vietnam last january. that despite divisions of opinion here in the united states. our men in vietnam clearly understand and support u.s. policies toward vietnam and that their morale is high. this kind of support from our fighting men in vietnam gives the necessary encouragement to those in high places who are responsible for making the difficult choices between war and peace. i am particularly pleased to have received a letter from raymond alger. a member of the coast guard serving in the republic of south vietnam. he writes: im merely an american doing what must be doneand i believe in what i am doing. mr. algers very eloquent letter is testimony to the fact that those who are on the scene in vietnam recognize the vital purposes for which we all struggle. i ask unanimous consent to have his letter printed in the congressional record.
madam president. i fully agree with the president that the oecd should play an important part in trade and contacts with eastern europe. specifically. i recommend the early establishment of an intergovernmental committee on eastwest trade within the oecd. this was recommended in april 1965 by the committee for ecoic developmentced--in a policy statement on the eastwest trade and i fully endorse it. third. i would also favor the convening of a conference of countries who are adherents to the "berne union" rule which limits state guaranteed credits to 5 years. with the exception of ship and aircraft sales. in an attempt to reestablish a common rule governing such credits. several of our allies have unfortunately violated that rule and have. in some cases. given credits for as long as 6. 8. and in one case. 12 years to communist countries. this is very unwise. and makes the communists feel that they can profit by putting one industrialized nation against aher. we should agree among ourselves on this. the new policy position of the president enables us to call a conference for that purpose. i see reason why the united states should depart from its existing position on longterm credits under existing conditions. but i would suggest that. if we could obtain agreement of a major character from the u.s.s.r. or its associates. resulting in a substantial reduction of eastwest political tensionsuch as would result from a major disarmament agreementit would be worth while to reopen the question of longterm credits. increased commercial and cultural contact between eastern europe and the united states will in the long run be important elements in reducing cold war tensions and in encouraging greater ecoic independence among east european countries. and they should be pursued despite any difference we might have with the u.s.s.r. over vietnam. only time will tell whether the new u.s. overtures will have any lasting impact and lead to the solution of longstanding issues. signs that there may be a break in the united statessoviet deadlock over a proliferation treaty. the resumption of serious negotiations on a united statessoviet civil air agreement. soviet readiness to pursue talks on military use of outer space. are at least indications that the soviet union is  against developing possible areas of agreement with the united states despite the conflict over vietnam. and the initiative  taken on eastwest trade can well prove decisive in this regard. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the following items may be printed in the record at this point: an editorial published in the journal of commerce on october 12. 1966. entitled "the roads to the east". an article published in the october 1. 1966. issue of forbes. entitled "to russiawithout love."
it is time to sum up what all of this means as we do stand at the end of the road and i wish hing to depreciate from this statement. however. i first wish to express my deep appreciation to the distinguished senator from rhode island within the context of the problems he had to face. and i k because i was a conferee with precisely the same conferees on the house side. he performed a miracle due to his personal leadership and conviction. if he could  bring anything back in these areas it was  because his heart would  let him. although the entire vietnam war was involved. this is a tremendous tribute to him as a man and a senator. i feel very deeply about this matter.
. on behalf of myself and mr. goodell. i submit an amendment to h.r. 18707. the defense appropriations bill. the amendment would prohibit the expenditure of any funds appropriated under this bill to repair naval vessels at places other than their home ports. unless the contracts for repair of the vessels were awarded on the basis of competitive bidding open to drydock or other repair facilities located within 1.000 miles of the home port of the vessel. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i regret that it should be necessary to introduce this amendment. but it is apparent that i have exhausted all other means available by which navy policy could possibly be made more rational. i would like to emphasize that the amendment i introduce today does  in fact require any naval ship repair work to be awarded to new york.  does it require any vessel to be repaired at a place other than its home port. it merely requires that when a ship is repaired at a place other than its home port. the contractor be selected by competitive bidding open to all drydock or repair facilities within 1.000 miles of the vessels home port.
. i reserve the balance of my time. but before doing so i wish to make one fact available:  one single navy ship is being repaired today in new york. withstanding that we have the most extensive facilities for drydock. et cetera. for repair of ships in the new york area
 i am sorry. the senator is  reading the right part. it says: part of the funds * * * shall be used for the purpose of any naval vessel at places other than the home port of such vessel. only then is the competitive bidding factor invoked.  otherwise.
. to conclude debate on this matter. i am sorry that the senator from hawaii has left the chamber. but it is  a question of morale on the home port problem. because this does  apply where there is home port repair. once we get out of the home port. it could be further than 350 miles. it is 750 miles from charleston to new orleans. for instance. the same is true of other naval districts. in summary. the amendment would provide for the opening up of competitive bidding. without any disadvantage to the men in any way. shape. or form. this is a longstanding injustice on the part of the navy and the only way to remedy it is on the floor of the senate. i repeat. it is really just amazing that that has  been done before. i can understand why. i do  see a single reason against it. yet we have had this problem right along. i hope . by reducing the distance from 1.000 miles to 350 mileswhich is certainly an answer to the problem of the morale and convenience of the crewthe senate will. at long last. right this longstanding injustice.
. it seems to me that the issue has been very clearly drawn. the issue is  between new york and new jersey and it is  between the senate and the secretary of transportation. cabinet officers have to do what they have to do. they have lots of authority. i do  suppose anyone ever wants to exercise some kty authority. but occasionally he is called upon to do it. we have to and they have to. so i just do  think that is what must count here. i think we have two competing problems. we have a national airport problem. for which we are putting up $10 billion. and we have local option problems. i must say i smile a bit to hear the passion with which the senator from new jersey addresses himself to the issue of the life of residents of new jersey. we have two airports.  one. in new york city. laguardia and kennedy. and they make lots of se and cause lots of problems. they have one in new jersey. and i am sure it makes lots of se and causes lots of problems. but the point is. this is  a matter exclusive to either of us. the jetport may well be located somewhere in the hudson river valley. just as easily as in new jersey. if that is finally decided upon. we should get just as passionate. but what can we do about it. that is the issue. as i see it. somehow we have got to reconcile the march of time and progress and the national interest with the local interest. what we have tried to do is find some way of serving both objectives. and this is the only way i could find. without allowing the secretary to make the site selectionand i agree with all my colleagues on that i do  want site selection. secretary volpe does  want it.  senator case.  senator williams.  senator goodell. e of us want site selection. so the only way i could find was for the united states to use the power to which the secretary was entitledthe power to disburse the money. that is the stick. and the carrot is that they get the money. that is the best we can do. i do  agree that we should do hing. because if you do hing. you simply continue the present situation. and that idea can extend to everything. whether it is army camps or airports. i think the compromise we offer the senate is a fair one. and a way out for these two conflicting forces. and i hope the senate will accept it.
but at the moment when the interposition of congress becomes possible because it is clear that this is going to be much more protracted. more involved. will have more forces at stake. and perhaps involve broader dangersa major war or something like thatit is equally the duty of congress to interpose itself and the duty of the president to see that congress is interposed. i can see inconsistency between carrying out those powers and the provisions of the bill i have introduced. in fact. my bill makes all this explicit. as the senator has said. it is a vehicle for inquiry and exploration. my standard of judgment was to define the areas we are talking about in which the president could respond immediately. and then to set a 30day limit as being an arbitrary figure. but which would still take care of all urgent contingencies before congress must get into it or authority is canceled. others may have better or different ideas. but this does  change anything in the constitution. it only enforces what is already contained in the constitution. we have the right to make appropriate laws and the president will have to join us in signing it. or we will have to override his veto. but it is entirely susceptible of being made the subject of law. as i have attemped to do in s. 3964.
. he has got to fight. i thought that the history of astuteness in government was to see how often we could win without fighting. yet this seems to be the criterion. to facilitate and make it easy to fight. the founding fathers themselves spoke of the awesomeness of the decision to unleash the dogs of war. as one of them wrote. and the intolerable consequences of war for the whole body politic. the men who back this legislation. like the senator from texas. are  pacifists. we have served our country. and we have illusions about the world in which we live. its demands. and its hazards to life if one would retain freedom. the senator from texas subscribes so eloquently to the great tradition which feels that the surest guarantee of freedom is the checks and balances which we have built into the constitution. the senator comes from a great statean emous empirein this country. its people are probably as close to the frontier in their outlook. dynamism. and faith in their own abilities and their own two hands. probably as much. if  more than. any other state in the union today. so i count it a great element of strength with respect to this measure that the distinguished senator from texas has joined in it. he has made a very important contribution to its ultimate success. i am grateful to him. but much more than that. this is  an easy road for me or anyone else to take. especially in view of the kind of opposition which seems to indicate that. somehow or other. we are jeopardizing the security of this nation. i am very strongly fortified when such senators as the senator from texas come to the same conclusion quite independently. based on their own study and convictions of the matter.
. if the senator will forgive me. i am a pretty good crossexaminer myself. i would like to read what he said. he said: black powder as the distructive agent in terrorist bombings has  been as widely used in new york county as smoke powder and incendiary devices. it etheless has constituted. during the past two years. a serious menace in the hands of certain terrorists groups. the most orious incident. involving pipe bombs detonated by black powder components. occurred on january 24. 1972. when the portuguese airways office at 601 fifth avenue was seriously damaged. this act was admitted by an organization identified with panafrican nationalism. called the black revolutionary army. the incident was the 44th in a series of bombings or attempted bombings of cultural missions. consular offices. airline and tourist agencies and other diplomatic or international organizations accredited in the city of new york. black powder pipe bombs were utilized in almost all of these bombing incidents. that is his statement and i stand on that. if the senator would like to join me in moving to recommit the bill to the judiciary committee. we can very easily have frank hogan come down to testify. i am sure that he will be very glad to do it.
