. the essence of the difference between the two sides. which are so closely matched. is whether or  to actually stop the administration from going ahead with the closings of the job corps camps as they have been undertaken. in my judgment there may be a majority view in the senate. we will soon find out because this matter will be tested upon this particular amendment. which is in the nature of a substitute. there may be a majority which feels that it will allow the administration to go ahead with its program of manpower training with the precaution that in going ahead it does  ride rough shod over the rights of those  in that training. in the job corps camps. the purpose of the substitute. in effect. is to put in the resolution the promises made by the administration. which. if carried out. would assure complete equity and justice to those  in the job corps camps that are being phased out. this ties into the broader objective of a more comprehensive and more effective manpower training program. which the administration in my judgment. has  presented. this is the basic matter involved in the substitute. i k there are a great many senators who feel very strongly with the junior senator from california . just as there are a great many senators who feel strongly with us. however. it seems to me that on a sense resolutionwhich is what we are dealing with hereit may be possible to fashion a more decisive majority for this position which will lock in the promises of the administration and at the same time enable the administration to go forward with its manpower training plan. . that said. here is the factual situation. there are some 32.000 young men and women in these job corps camps. the administration proposes to reduce that number by some 16.000 people and to phase out those 16.000 into the following three categories: those who go to other camps. those who take other forms of training. and those who go to centers which will also be residential as well as closer to areas where there actually will be jobs. rather than out in widely distributed areas of the country more suited for conservation than for direct jobs for which the young people are being trained. the administration has assured us and has put up $1 million to back up that assurance.
