. the air force today alerted 28.000 air national guardsmen and air reservists to probable recall to active duty within the next few weeks. other branches of the service are expected to follow suit shortly. we are witnessing the revvingup of the mighty u.s. military machine. the most formidable in the world. these guardsmen and reservists are the elite of our civilian military manpower sources. most of them have prior military service. many have seen combat. they have kept in fighting trim. this afterns newspapers report that the guardsmen and reservists facing almost immediate recall to duty rallied solidly today behind the administrations first trooplevel move to bolster u.s. strength in the berlin crisis. unit commanders report their troops can be mobilized and ready to go within a matter of hours. as one massachusetts general points out. any mobilization problems will be  military. but personal. a virginia airman interviewed by scrippshoward states the matter more explicitly. he would take a terrific salary cut and his chief worry is that he may lose the house he is buying. the airman is  alone in this dilemma. thousands of guardsmen and reservists. while answering their nations call to arms. face the same agonizing anxieties over home mortgage obligations they will be unable to meet on service pay. i propose that a grateful nation relieve them of this burden of anxiety. i am introducing legislation to grant a moratorium on principal payments on federally insured or guaranteed mortgages for reservists and guardsmen called to active duty after august 1. 1961. if they are unable to meet such payments while so serving. the determination of need will be established by the federal mortgage agency involved. in the event that the agency issues a certificate of moratorium. the reservist or guardsman will be required only to meet interest payments on the principal. upon his release from service. he will resume his original schedule of payments on the principal. i urge the congress to take quick affirmative action.
. three selected by the stockholders. and three from those government agencies most involved in housing. home finance. and the foreign aid program. the board would be directly responsible for appointing officers and staff and for the operations of the corporation. the purpose of the corporation proposed in this bill is similar to the purpose of opic. more effective and efficient operations are sought. in the housing guaranty program. for example. delays in processing applications and in approving projects have kept the present housing program from achieving its full potential. in some cases projects have been delayed for such a long period of time that the original approved sales prices are longer realistic. other circumstances have changed. and the projects are longer feasible. i believe that u.s. businessmen require and should be given prompt decisions when investing their money in foreign countries. this is particularly important for housing guaranty activities because of the long development time necessary in order to produce housing. the corporation proposed in this bill would operate independently of the state department but would coordinate its activities with the department. it would provide a means for carrying out. on a businesslike basis. an excellent private enterprise program. a private corporation would operate more efficiently than the present program and its independence and efficiency should encourage the participation of more united states businessmen. i am pleased to point out that this bill has the wholehearted support of two organizations with unparalleled experience and expertise in this area: the united states savings and loan league and the national association of home builders. i believe that careful study by the congress of the concept embodied in this bill. may reveal a more effective way to marshal private participation in the foreign assistance program which might hopefully lead to the more efficient operation of that program toward our stated goals.
. i simply desire to cite some facts pertaining to the particular project to which the distinguished senator from wisconsin refers. the first of such projects. an 800apartment gardentype project. planned for bayside. queens. under section 608. at the beginning of this year. on the basis of $1.800 per room. can be built at any lesser mortgage figure. some 600 veterans have made down payments averaging $1.000. almost $600.000 being  on deposit. one of the largest new york banks made a $7.250.000 mortgage commitment at 31/2 percent. an interest rate longer available. an option on the 40 acres of land was obtained at the very reasonable price of $8.000 per acre. anyone who is familiar with that section of new york ks that that is a very reasonable price. a reputable contracting firm agreed to construct the project at. figures which have since increased. all of this was based on the $1.800 per room mortgage then available under section 608. and the good faith. and prestige of the state of new yorkits word to some 600 individual veterans who are willing to help themselves by personally financing their own apartments without one cent of public funds as a means of obtaining badly needed housing within the privateenterprise system hang in the balance. i thank the senator from wisconsin.
mrs. smith of maine. mr. hendrickson. and mr. schoeppel) introduced senate bill 709. toestablish a national housing objective and the policy to be followed in the attainment thereof and for other purposes. which was referred to the committee on banking and currency. and eppears under a separate heading.) by mr. chavez:
the senator from new york would like to ask the able senator from ohio if by the very process which he has suggested he does  visualize a possible time when there will be a hue and cry for a complete refinancing of all mortgage loans outstanding. with the idea that the rate should be 3 percent.
. separately and alone. one of them contains my major objection to the corporate plan. it is the combination of these and other inducements in the corporate plan which gives to it so dangerous an aspect. actively promoted and logically carried out. and in and of itself and through its own expansion and repressive influence upon competing private institutions. it might set in motion forces in government which would completely supplant these institutions by usurping their functions and depriving them of business. with the inevitable unhappy consequences for depositors in savings bank and savings and loan associations and for insurance company policyholders. i k that it is claimed that already the federal government has invaded the field of private finance through the establishment of federal financial institutions. but i would point out that in these particular cases such invasion in the first instance has been occasioned by conditions where private resources were either inadequate or unavailable. condition of this nature would exist in the field of cooperative housing if the substitute amendment offered by the senator from new hampshire and myself were to be agreed to. ample are the present facilities of our governmental agencies to meet the requirements of any cooperative housing program. if these facilities were to be fully utilized as contemplated by the terms of the substitute amendment. as i have stated. i do  differ as to the principle involved in federal aid for cooperative housing. i do differ on the question of method. i believe firmly that the proposal contained in the maybank amendment is unwarranted and dangerous. i believe firmly that the proposal contained in our substitute amendment is wholly adequate to meet the need for cooperative housing.
let me complete this statement this would seriously increase the risk of future insurance losseslosses which could be far in excess of the $2.500.000 cut. fha is an insurance company. if any insurance company is prevented from analyzing its risks. it is put in a dangerous position. the expenditure of this $2.500.000  is insurance for solvency in the future. fhas business has increased. the volume of applications has been running 20 percent above last year. in the month of april. new construction home mortgage insurance applications were 36 percent above the corresponding period last year. in the face of this increased workload. fha should  be requiredas it would be by this budget reductionto cut 600 employees out of its field staff totaling less than 4.100. the cut should be restored also bacause it would deprive thousands of prospective homeowners of the benefits of fha mortgage insurance. it would deprive members of the public of the service they are entitled to receive from fha for the fees and premiums they pay. fha has an excellent reputation for ecoy. efficiency. and service. it has served directly more than 3 million homeowners with mortgage insurance. in addition. it has helped to repair and maintain 15 million american homes. it has improved housing standards throughout the country and its constructive influence has been felt  only in the mortgages it has insured but also in better lending practices on uninsured loans. one out of every four new homes in this country is started under fha. it has benefited homeowners. builders. workers. and lenders alike. fha has written about $30 billion of insurance and it has  cost the taxpayer 1 cent. in the fiscal year 1954 alone it is estimated that fha will insure 2.200.000 home repair and improvement loans and receive mortgage insurance applications covering about 572.000 dwelling units. it is estimated that it will collect fees and premiums of $138.300.000 out of which it will pay operating expenses of $33.-. 100.000. this is an expense to income ratio of less than 25 percenta much more favorable ratio than that of any. xcix---317 of the leading life stock insurance about 20 percent. in order to try to save companies. some money. this is a fine record. i can urge too  ives. in a moment. if the pur$27.500.000. pose of the reduction is to eliminate six the figures which i have just read or seven hundred inefficient employees. show an anticipated profit of more than i say by all means we should eliminate $100 million for the coming year. them and replace them with six or seven
. i want to express my support for senator durenbergerls amendment affecting mortgage revenue bond programs. he has worked diligently and is certainly to be coinmended for drafting an effective compromise on this complex issue. f or the past several years. a majority of rhode island homebuyers has benefited from from reduced rate mortgages provided through bonds issued by the rhode island housing & mortgage finance corp. as a result of the highly restrictive mortgage subsidy bond legislation enacted last year and. of course. as a result of skyhigh interest rates. the housing market in my state and other states has literally collapsed. given this devastating situation confronting prospective homebuyers. homebuilders. and realtors. it is extremelyimportant that we adopt these modest changes that will help state housing agencies. such as rihmfc. get back into the business of supporting housing.
. s. 2918. the "residential mortgage investment act of 1982" permits employee benefit plans to invest in the mortgage market (including mortgagebacked securitics) and engage in a variety of mortgage related transactions provided prudence and armslength standards are met. specifically. the bill permits plans to engage in "qualified mortgage transactions" involving "qualified mortgage loans" provided the transactions are at armslength. the bill exempts "qualified mortgage transactions" from a portion of the prohibited transaction provisions of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (erisa). the internal revenue code of 1954. as amended (the code) and any contrary provisions of state law. the effective date is the date of enactment.
that is one other factor that has caused the united states to have the highest percentage of individual homeowners in the world. then we get to the next part. what about the deductibility of the interest on consumer goods. and consumer interest. that is what the senator from michigan is concerned about. he says there is a dichotomy here. the person who has the home may deduct the interest on his mortgage. if he wants to go out and buy a boat or an automobile. he can increase the mortgage on his home and therefore interest on that is deductible. and the fellow who does  have egh equity in his home can receive the deductibility of his interest. fair egh. we looked at that. what did we find. in order to have the deductibility of consumer interest it would cost $28 billion over the 5year period. what is the result of that. the result of that would be rates would have to be increased. and so we made a decision. the decision was we would  allow the deductibility of consumer interest. was it totally fair. we thought it was a good tradeoff. a wise tradeoff. and to get the rates down. the driving engine of this entire bill is the hold rates for individuals and corporations.
let me make one othr point. . one solution would be to allow everyone a lump sum for everything. and they could use it however they want. for loans. for homes. consumer goods. whatever they want. that is a possibility. that was suggested and rejected. there is the feeling that the viability of the home mortgage interest deduction is so ensconced in our code and the american ethic. and i believe rightfully so. i think it is a major factor for people to own their own homes. which i believe is good for the country.
that is one other factor that has caused the united states to have the highest percentage of individual homeowners in the world. then we get to the next part. what about the deductibility of the interest on consumer goods. and consumer interest. that is what the senator from michigan is concerned about. he says there is a dichotomy here. the person who has the home may deduct the interest on his mortgage. if he wants to go out and buy a boat or an automobile. he can increase the mortgage on his home and therefore interest on that is deductible. and the fellow who does  have egh equity in his home can receive the deductibility of his interest. fair egh. we looked at that. what did we find. in order to have the deductibility of consumer interest it would cost $28 billion over the 5year period. what is the result of that. the result of that would be rates would have to be increased. and so we made a decision. the decision was we would  allow the deductibility of consumer interest. was it totally fair. we thought it was a good tradeoff. a wise tradeoff. and to get the rates down. the driving engine of this entire bill is the hold rates for individuals and corporations.
let me make one othr point. . one solution would be to allow everyone a lump sum for everything. and they could use it however they want. for loans. for homes. consumer goods. whatever they want. that is a possibility. that was suggested and rejected. there is the feeling that the viability of the home mortgage interest deduction is so ensconced in our code and the american ethic. and i believe rightfully so. i think it is a major factor for people to own their own homes. which i believe is good for the country.
. i wish to express my strong support for the decision yesterday by secretary samuel pierce of hud approving fannie maes request to issue real estate mortgage investment conduits (remics). i believe this decision will enhance competition in mortgage finance markets and lead to lower interest rates for american home buyers. as the original sponsors of the remics legislation. it was my clear intention that fannie mae and freddie mac should be treated as any other mortgage securities issue with full authority to issue remics. as chairman of the taxation subcommittee. with jurisdiction over remics legislation. i heard strong support for fannie maes full participation under my bill. from every private sector witness who supported remics concept. the matter of fannie maes participation was similarly considered and supported in the house. fannie maes participation in remics is an important element in the success of the remics instrument. there is reason that has been shown for arbitrarily restricting fannie maes authority to issue remics. to the contrary. the market should be broadly defined in order to ensure the full benefits of remics to the home buyer are realized. i hope that this matter is  behind us so that remics can  develop as congress envisioned.
. the superfund program has come under a great deal of criticism in the last few years. we may well decide that the program. including the liability system. needs a complete overhaul. but before we make any changes to the liability system. we should have the benefit of all possible facts. the senate last week decided. howeverwith only a few hours of debateto change one aspect of the superfund liability system in a way that fundamentally affects the entire program. for these reasons i feel compelled to vote against the gse bill. it is my hope that when the house and senate go to conference on this bill. the language dealing with municipal liability under superfund will be deleted. i am disappointed that the gse legislation has been caught in the middle of this debate over superfund. s. 2733 was a good bill when it emerged from the senate banking committee on april 8. i support a reinvigorated regulator within the department of housing and urban development. in my view. increased supervision will promote additional safety and soundness at gses and will reduce the risk that federal tax dollars will ever be needed to bail them out. i also favor the housing omponents established in the banking committee version of s. 2733. the legislation calls upon fannie mae and freddie mao to purchase a greater portion of low- and moderateime mortgages. in addition. the bill would have required gses to increase their activities in urban areas around the nation. and finally. the bill would require fannie mae and freddie mae to establish specific capital reserve standards cordel hull international law society. phi that must be met to ensure that gses alpha delta law fraternity and alpha tau could withstand a severe credit and in- omega fraternity. he was also the managing terest rate stress testsimilar to what editor of the cumberlandsamford law recould occur shouldthere be a signifi- view for 196970. cant and prolonged downturn in the na- jim was admitted to the practice of law in tional ceremony. alabama in 1970. and in florida in 1972. he is a member of the alabama bar association. all these changes w greatly im- the florida bar association. the american prove the operation of gses in our na- trial lawyers association. the alabama tion. nevertheless. i will be voting trial lawyers association. and the alabama against s. 2733 because i strongly op- criminal defense lawyers association. he is pose the municipality liability provi- a former assistant district attorney for sions that have been added to the bill. escambia county and has served as a special assistant attorney general with the state of alabama. he is a member of the oil and gas tribute to jim hart task force and has served as chairman of
it seems to me that it definitely impacts on his ecoic status as to where he derives his assets. if the largest portion of his assets are real estate and he involves himself in all sorts of special favors for owners of real estate. then. the people can make that judgment. they need those facts in hand in order to evaluate the senators performance. what if tomorrow. for example. there were a proposal in the chamber which said longer shall the interest on mortgage payments be tax deductible. does the senator think it would be of some importance to people to k that one senator does  make any mortgage payments and aher senator makes huge mortgage payments. i think it is rather relevant.
. i do  question the motives of the distinguished senator from tennessee.  the purposes of his proposed amendment. but i do question the results of that amendment. is it  a fact that one result of the amendment would be that the 29 million singlefamily owneroccupied houses or 57 percent. or even. taking the lesser figure. 40 percent. of the housing market of the country would be permitted to discriminate. under the senators amendment.
. i rise today to address issues which are of utmost importance to me: the need to provide additional mortgage money at a time when this nations housing industry is in dire straits. and the need to prevent the extension of federal rate regulation to state banking activities which ara  presently regulated by the federal government. senate bill 2577 contains a series of provisions--some being very beneficial to the mortgage market and essential to this nations financial stability and others being of marginal utility at this time. section 1 of the bill would extend until september 22. 1970. flexible authority to regulate the rates of interest paid by financial institutions on time and savings deposits. this authority was first enacted by congress during the 1966 "credit crunch" to restrain excessive competition for funds by commercial banks and savings and loan asscciations. while the operation of a free market would certainly be preferable to the presence of such ceilings. present conditions require the extension of this authority in order to avert the possibilities of a rate war between the banks and savings and loan associations. unrestrained competition could have disas-° trous effects upon the supply of mortgage credit at a time when it is already exceedingly scarce. section 2 of s. 2577 would extend federal deposit rate control authority to federally insured financial institutions in a twostep process. prior to july 31. 1970. federal financial agencies would have authority to prevent the rates paid by federally insured institutions from exceeding 51/2 percent. after that date. full rate control authority would go into effect until september 22. 1970. unless renewed by the congress. section 2 also provides that either form of rate control authority will be lifted if. under the laws of the state in question. a state bank supervisory agency has comparable rate control authority and issues regulations in the exercise of that authority. section 2 was drawn in such a way that federal rate control authority over federally insured thrift institutions is confined to one state. massachusetts. i have given a great deal of time and study to the problems underlying this section and have concluded that it represents a reasonable compromise on the part of the interested parties. i also believe that it represents a longrun solution to the problems which prompted the introduction of this section by senator proxmire. savings institutions in massachusetts which are  subject to federal rate control comprise approximately 60 percent of total deposits. currently. these institutions are paying an average of 5.34 percent on "special ice accounts": whereas. federal savings and loans and some cooperative banks. which are members of the federal home loan bank system. are limited to 5 percent on such accounts. the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) has permitted eight mutual savings banks under its control topay a rate which is competitive with that paid by state thrift institutions. thus. federal savings and loans and certain cooperative banks which have voluntarily elected to become members of the federal home loan bank system are at a competitive disadvantage visavis the state thrift institutions because of restrictions placed on those institutions by the board. there has been considerable pressure brought to bear on certain members of the senate banking and currency committee to remove the disparity by extending federal rate control. several issues have been raised in opposition to such action. among them are the fact that both federal and state thrift institutions in massachusetts are suffering substantial savings drains because of higher rates paid in the bond market and other money markets. to further curtail the rate of interest which these institutions can pay on deposits in addition. the dual banking system which has operated so successfully in massachusetts must  be encroached upon by federal regulatory measures unless it is clearly demonstrated that the state is incapable of coping with its own problems. following lengthy consideration of these issues the carefully devised compromise measure already discussed has been adopted by the senate banking and currency committee and. i believe. warrants the approval of my colleagues in the senate. it is hoped that enactment of this section will result in responsible state legislation which will avert continued pressures to extend federal rate control authority to state institutions. it is also hoped that the federal home loan bank board will see fit to permit thrift institution under its control to pay competitive rates in massachusetts. section 3 of s. 2577 increases from $1 to $4 billion the authority of the home loan bank system to borrow from the treasury. it also specifies that it is the sense of the congress that this authority be used to help stabilize the mortgage market during periods of tight money. the funds borrowed from the treasury would be reloaned by the federal home loan bank board to those savings and loan associations whose supply of funds are substantially impaired. in summary. the borrowing authority provided under this section could produce substantial beneficial effects when mortgage activity is at a standstill and when housing goals continue unsatisfied. section 4 of the bill permits the federal reserve board to strengthen its administration of regulation q so as to preclude commercial banks from raising funds indirectly through holding company affiliates at interest rates higher than the rate ceilings permitted under that regulation. although the federal reserve board can presently bring this kind of borrowing within the regulation q ceiling. the senate banking and currency committee felt that clarification of this authority was necessary. i concur in the committees judgment that this loophole must be closed to insure that federal regulations are  circumvented. under section 5. the federal reserve board would be given additional authority to establish higher reserve requirements on eurodollar borrowings from foreigned banks. during recent months it has become evident that large commercial banks have been able to circumvent the federal reserve boards monetary policy by drawing on dollars held on deposit at banks outside of the united states. presently. the federal reserve board is able to establish a 10percent reserve requirement on additional eurodollar inflows. however. the 10percent figure is generally deemed to be inadequate. accordingly. this section would permit the board to establish reserve requirements of up to 22 percent. the federal reserve has concurred in the need for this additional authority. and i believe the committees judgment in extending the authority is justified by the facts presented. finally. sections 6 and 7 would provide authority for a voluntary credit restraint program. i voted against adoption of these provisions because the administration has indicated it does  need such tools and. in fact. believes that enactment might have a negative impact. while many ecoists are optimistic about the effects of antiinflationary policies presently being employed. i have also heard a growing number of businessmen express concern about the administrations reluctance to utilize moral suasion. i sincerely hope that in the months to come. key government leaders will actively seek cooperation on the part of business and labor to stabilize wages and prices as a means of easing inflationary pressures. in conclusion. i commend my very able colleague. the senator from wisconsin
. i am today introducing the peacetime conversion assistance act which i discussed in detail in my statement to the senate the federal governments decision to reduce drastically defense and space expenditures has left large numbers of highly skilled men and women out of work. i am afraid that too little attention has been given to specific programs that can insure their gainful reemployment. the adjustment asistance provisions of the trade expansion act of 1962 directed that comprehensive assistance should be made available to workers dislocated by a deliberate change in government policies. this act draws upon the same concept. it would provide relocation assistance. training assistance. and mortgage interest rate supplements to adversely affected workers separated from their employment because of the termination of defense and space contracts. one of the greatest problems for many unemployed specialists is their monthly mortgage payment. under the provisions of this legislation mortgage interest assistance payments may be made by the secretary of labor to help reduce the burden of mortgage payments at a time when the individual can least afford them. further. this bill seeks to help unemployed aerospace and defense workers reequip themselves for careers in fields in other industries. retraining would be made possible by authorizing the secretary of labor to pay training assistance allowances to these individuals. thus permitting them to return to college. graduate school. or other suitable training facility for as much as a full year of study. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the peacetime conversion assistance act be printed at this point in the record.
. for the last 4 years. a very inative and successful program has been operating in the washington community. youth pride. inc.. was conceived by and for the young people of this city. to redirect their attitudes and to encourage them in worthwhile and fulfilling endeavors. for many young people of this city. pride has achieved these goals. it has aided more than 800 young men. bringing them up the ladder from urban sanitation to automotive mechanics and building maintenance. it has established subsidiary organizationsservice stations. a real estate company. and landscaping and maintenance concerns. throughout. prides efforts have been directed to education. selfimprovement. and community service. this emphasis has enabled pride to progress in a very short time from a few dozen dudes on rat patrol to a corporation which is presently in the top 1 percent of black businesses in the nation in terms of number of employees and gross annual receipts. i am pleased to salute youth pride. inc.. and its most able and dedicated director. marion barry. and i ask unanimous consent that a report explaining the organizations achievements in more detail be printed at this point in the record.
. i ask that a general explanatory statement. as well as a technical description and a copy of the bill. be printed at the conclusion of my remarks. in conclusion. i respectfully urge the distinguished chairman of the senate banking committee. mr. sparkman. to give careful consideration to this proposal during the markup session which is presently taking place on the 1972 housing bill. a great deal of interest in this proposal has already been expressed both during and after the hearings which took place on it before the banking committee. i am confident that its prompt enactment will further encourage the production of muchneeded housing throughout the country.
i thank the senator from tennessee. this is a very serious matter. as the senator from tennessee well ks. because he participated in the debate in the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. he ks of the unique situation in both massachusetts and new hampshire. and it would be rather disastrous for all of these accounts in massachusetts savings banks at the present time if in the conference  accounts were longer possible in either of these two states. we have a considerable number of them. we have worked with them for a long period of time. i think the evidence will indicate that commercial banks. in the main. have  been injured in massachusetts by the  accounts. therefore. i am hopeful that we would be flexible in going to conference with the senate bill.
. s. 3066 contains a provision for the consolidation of the mutual mortgage insurance fund and the general insurance fund into a new. expanded general insurance fund. to the layman this may seem to be a routine housekeeping matter. but to appreciate its significance one must have some idea of the dollars involved. the mutual mortgage insurance fund was created to insure mortgages which ilnance the purchase of small homes. most of the fha mortgages are insured under the mmif. this fund has over $50 billion in insurance in force and insurance reserves to cover losses of some $1.75 billion. according to huds actuaries. the mmif has over $200 million in surplus and is in sound financial condition. but the situation is very different with regard to the general insurance fund. which insures mortgages to finance the purchase. construction. or improvement of some small homes. multifamily properties. residential properties. and commercial structures. the general insurance fund has over $22 billion in insurance in force. however. it has a reserve deficiency of about $1 billion. and that deficiency is growing at the rate of several hundred million dollars a year. to put it bluntly. the general insurance fund is an actuarial catastrophe. and the situation appears to be deteriorating rather than improving. to appreciate the magnitude of the problem. you must be aware that the general insurance fund does  insure any 235. 236. or special risk properties which are covered by the special risk insurance fund. the congress never contemplated that the general insurance fund. which even insures luxury apartments. would operate on anything but a sound financial basis. but it is  in deep trouble. as a member of the appropriations committee. i am concerned about the condition of the general insurance fund and the potential cost to the taxpayers to meet the mounting losses experienced by that fund. i intend to explore this matter further with hud during appropriations hearings this spring. i do  support the proposal that the mutual mortgage insurance fund and the general insurance fund be merged into one new general insurance fund. as i see it. the danger in such a move is that the surplus reserves of the mutual mortgage insurance fund are  likely to be sufficient to cover expected losses incurred by the general insurance fund. a new consolidated fund would then come to depend on appropriations to keep going. and any semblance of actuarial soundness in the operation of the fha insurance funds will be lost. this. in my opinion. would lead to the weakening or even the demise of fha as we have kn it. over the last 35 years fha has provided the basis for a massive expansion of homeownership opportunities for moderateincome families who could  -afford to make a large downpayment on a house. this has been done without any cost to the government. private mortgage insurer has been able to match the fha in making available low downpayment mortgages. i am offering an amendment for myself and senators cranston and mondale to retain the mutual mortgage insurance fund and the general insurance fund as separate funds. the effect of our proposal will be to continue the use of the mutual mortgage insurance fund -to insure those mortgages presently insured under section 203 of the national housing act as well as those mortgages to be insured under section 401 of the proposed bill.
. our housing industry is in a recession and heading for a depression. housing starts have fallen off sharply as mortgage money has literally dried up in some areas. every day my mail and that of other congressman and senators contains dozens of letters appealing to us to do something about the mortgage credit crisis. these letters tell the story of families transferred from one city to aher. but unable to sell their old homes or to buy new ones. they tell of young families having saved the downpayment for a house. but  unable to obtain a mortgage. they tell of realtors. and home builders. and lumber suppliers. and construction workers who are feeling the effects of the worst recession to hit the residential real estate industry in years. the effect on the housing industry of the tight money policy adopted by the federal reserve board has been much more severe than on other segments of the ecoy. the board recognizes this. and chairman burns has publicly suggested that steps be taken to temper the effect of restrictive monetary policy on the housing industry. with a view toward providing shortterm relief to the home mortgage credit market. senator cranston and i both offered bills to provide below market rate mortgage loans through the department of housing and urban development. hearings were held on those bills. on august 6 and 7 and. after studying testimony. we are today introducing a bill. the home purchase assistance act of 1964. which combines the best features of both our bills.
i thank the senator. seventh. s. 3979 as reported provides for gnma to purchase mortgages bearing interest rates  in excess of the rate determined by the secretary to be necessary to reimburse the gnma for its expenses. the substitute amendment provides taking into account the cost of funds and administrative costs. the importance of making mortgage credit available on reasonable terms. and current conditions in the mortgage market. . this is a very important section. i have referred to it previously. we are very anxious that the interest rate be kept as low as possible. we use .the word "reasonable." the secretary is very mindful of the intent of this legislation. the secretary wants to do all he can to keep the interest rate low. but he does need some flexibility. and as we recognized we are concerned. here with treasury borrowing rates and administrative costs. the secretary has assured us he will do everything to keep that interest rate low. and we hope that it will be considerably less than 9.5 percent. we can be absolutely certain. but we hope that it will be less than 9.5 percent. a lot. of course. will depend upon what the treasury borrowing rate is at the time. eighth. s. 3979. -as reported. provides that the maximum price of homes purchased with mortgages financed under the bill could range from $30.000 up to $45.000 in high cost areas. the substitute amendment eliminates those ceilings. but retains ceilings on mortgage amounts of $33.000 up to $38.000 in high cost areas. this would support the purchase of homes with prices of over $40.000 in high cost areas. and i must state that these prices scare me. we must  encourage the production of housing which is even beyond the reach of families with incomes well above the median income. the market for expensive houses. even when mortgage credit is available. will be thin unless inflation is allowed to get out of control. i urge the secretary of housing and urban development to do all he can to encourage the production of new housing which is less expensive. even if it is  as spacious or luxurious as some television programs have led us to believe the average home should be. there is a need to assure that each region of the country will receive a fair share of the mortgage credit supplied under this bill. it must be recognized that participation in the program may  be as quick in some regions as in others because intermediaries in those areas are  accustomed to doing business with gnma. additionally. certain housing markets presently have available a large volume of newly constructed. unsold units which should be disposed of before large scale new construction is undertaken. i have been assured by secretary lynn that he will allocate funds authorized under this bill on a regional basis taking into account differing needs in different parts of the country to the extent practicable. . by passing this legislation today the senate can give a clear signal that the congress is ready to work together with the executive branch in the effort to whip inflation and provide relief to the victims of inflation. i urge my colleagues to give favorable consideration to this bill.
today. . for the first time in over 35 years. the strength of the american ecoy is being severely tested by high unemployment. increasing business failures. and fading consumer confidence. these weaknesses in our ecoy are real and severe. and anyone who iges them is only fooling himself. the hardships which will be felt by the families of the unemployed are equally real and severe. and all of us must work to find ways to alleviate those hardships and provide new jobs for the unemployed. as a member of the housing subcommittee i have been particularly concerned about unemployment in the construction trades which rose to 664.000 or 15 percent of the workers in that industry in december. housing starts in december of 1974 plummeted to an 8year low annual rate of 868.000 unitsa 60.5percent decline from the october 1972 high annual rate of 2.509.000 starts. toward the end of last year the congress passed the brookecranston act to provide additional mortgage credit on an emergency basis to stimulate housing construction. so far $4.899.600.000 has been committed under this act. more stimulus to the housing industry may be needed. and i shall  hesitate to introduce and support new legislation to get housing starts up. because i believe that a recovery in housing can lead the way to general ecoic recovery. while offering stimulus to the housing industry by way of the federal secondary mortgage market. we can ige the potential threat which unemployment itself presents for the residential real estate industry. if unemployment forces a large number of families to default on their mortgages. we could witness a deluge of foreclosed properties pouring onto the already glutted housing market. depressing prices. and destroying consumer confidence. the hardship for families losing their homes would be severe. history has taught us that widespread foreclosures can be avoided if remedial action is taken. we k that there is need to put the temporarily unemployed through the financial wringer. to avoid the hardship which could result from temporarily high unemployment and to avoid the destabalization of our real estate markets. i have joined with senators mondale and hart in introducing the homeowners loan act of 1975. its objectives are the same as that which inspired the 1933 act from which it takes its name. though some new devices are incorporated. action by the holc to avoid foreclosures will be automatically triggered whenever the foreclosures rate in any geographic area exceeds onehalf of 1 percent for any calendar quarter. payments will be to mortgagors who the holc determines will be able to avoid or cure a default on their mortgage without exposing the corporation to an unreasonable risk of loss. any mortgagor who is assisted in making mortgage payments by the holc will be responsible for reimbursing the holc for such assistance at such time as his mortgage is fully amortized or upon sale of his property. and this liability will be secured by a lien against the property. the bill also provides the holc with all of the powers it had under the 1933 act. including the power to purchase mortgages from mortgagees. this bill provides protection against foreclosure for the unemployed and lessens the danger of a precipitous collapse in our real estate markets. as ranking miity member on the housing subcommittee. i shall urge early hearings on this subject.
. today. senator cranston and i are introducing the emergency home purchase assistance amendments of 1975. this bill would amend the 1974 emergency home purchase assistance act. which senator cranston and i cosponsored. in introducing this lpgislation. we are mindful of the fact that savings inflows are increasing at our thrift institutions and that mortgage credit may be available at reasonable rates in the coming months. thus precluding the need for federal intervention in the mortgage market. in fact. i am concerned that effective consumer demand for housing could diminish to the point borrowers will  be forthcoming. however. federal government borrowing to finance the deficit could create a new mortgage credit crisis. depending upon what monetary policy the federal reserve board adopts and is able to carry out. with this possibility in mind and in prder to provide against future mortgage credit crises. we are making the emergency mortgage credit program a permanent program to be used in emergency situations. we have also modified and improved the program by extending it to cover conventionally financed condominiums. cooperatives. and multifamily rental properties. by including substantially rehabilitated properties. by eliminating unnecessary fees and charges. and by requiring that 25 percent of the funds be made available to finance purchase of existing properties. the banking committee will hold markup sessions on emergency housing legislation next week. and this bill will be arilong those considered by the committee at that time.
. conicerning emergency mortgage relief .payments under section 106. my question to the distinguished chairman is this: do i correctly understand that. under this section. the secretary has complete discretion. that she has the discretionary authority to determine that a lender who qualifies under section 105 may receive payments under section 106. and that that authority includes the ability to prescribe terms and conditions under which the lender is to receive such payments.
. s. 1281. the home mortgage disclosure act of 1975. would require institutions engaged in residential mortgage lending to compile data reflecting the geographic areas in which they make mortgage loans and to reveal such information to the public. while the mechanics of the bill are relatively easy to understand. its underlying rationale deserves consideration. in the course of hearings on this bill. the banking committee received testimony which indicated that many mortgage lending institutions were  making mortgage loans in older neighborhoods. even though such institutions were located in or had branch offices receiving deposits in such neighborhoods. what emerged from the testimony was a pattern of deliberate disinvestment in certain neighborhoods by some mortgage lending institutions. these institutions were redlining neighborhoods and refusing to make mortgage loans regardless of the quality of the property offered as security or the ability of the buyer to pay for and maintain his home. the banking committee has wrestled with the problem of redlining before. and it has  been an easy one to solve. the decision on whether to make a mortgage loan must be made on a casebycase basis taking into account a large number of factors. including the price and condition of the property and the credit worthiness of the buyer. one suggests that mortgage lenders should make bad loans.  does any member of our committee urge a system of credit allocation under which mortgage lending institutions are directed to invest a certain percentage of their funds in older neighborhoods. what the sponsors of s. 1281 do suggest is that so far as the practice of redlining is concerned. the public has a right to more information. many mortgage lending institutions are getting deposits in urban neighborhoods where moderate income homeowners live. these institutions operate under charters issued by financial regulatory agencies which restrict entry into the business on a geographic basis. they are supposed to serve the area in which they are located.  only to obtain deposits but also to make loans. under s. 1281. their depositors and the public at large will be given an opportunity to assess the lending policies of these institutions by looking at the areas in which they make mortgage loans. in some cities. neighborhood groups have organized to persuade their local lending institutions to make more mortgage credit available in their areas. they argue persuasively that they should be able to make an educated judgment about where they will deposit their savings based on the probability of their being able to obtain mortgage loans from the institutions in which they have made deposits. s. 1281 does  apply to institutions in rural areas. and under the amendment which senator proxmire has offered for himself and me. the disclosure requirements of the bill would only be prospective in their application. that is. institutions would  be required to report the location of properties securing all the mortgages in their portfolios. the cost of supplying the information required by the bill will be less than $1 per mortgage. some who oppose s. 1281 argue that mortgage lending practices are  the only factors which cause older neighborhoods to decline. and they are right. however. redlining is one factor. and an important factor. causing neighborhood deterioration. and i do  believe that we should delay taking steps to deal with "redlining" until we can bring forth legislation which offers remedies for all the causes of neighborhood decline. the home mortgage disclosure act of 1975 is  a cureall. but i believe it is a good bill and will discourage the practice of redlining which has developed in some cities. i urge my colleagues to vote for the bill.
. s. 1281. the home mortgage disclosure act of 1975. would require institutions engaged in residential mortgage lending to compile data reflecting the geographic areas in which they make mortgage loans and to reveal such information to the public. while the mechanics of the bill are relatively easy to understand. its underlying rationale deserves consideration. in the course of hearings on this bill. the banking committee received testimony which indicated that many mortgage lending institutions were  making mortgage loans in older neighborhoods. even though such institutions were located in or had branch offices receiving deposits in such neighborhoods. what emerged from the testimony was a pattern of deliberate disinvestment in certain neighborhoods by some mortgage lending institutions. these institutions were "redlining" neighborhoods and refusing to make mortgage loans regardless of the quality of the property offered. as security or the ability of the buyer to pay for and maintain his home. the banking committee has wrestled with the problem of "redlining" before. and it has  been an easy one to solve. the decision on whether to make a mortgage loan must be made on a casebycase basis taking into account a large number of factors including the price and condition of the property. and the credit worthiness of the buyer. one suggests that mortgage lenders should make bad loans.  does any member of our committee urge a system of credit allocation under which mortgage lending institutions are directed to invest a certain percentage of their funds in older neighborhoods. what the sponsors of s. 1281 do suggest is that so far as the practice of "redlining" is concerned. the public has a right to more information. many mortgage lending institutions are getting deposits in urban neighborhoods where moderate income homeowners live. these institutions operate under charters issued by financial regulatory agencies which restrict entry into the business on a geographic basis. they are supposed to serve the area in which they are located.  only to obtain deposits. but also to make loans. and under s. 1281. their depositors and the public at large will be given an opportunity to assess the lending policies of these institutions by looking at the areas in which they make mortgage loans. in some cities. neighborhood groups have organized to persuade their local lending institutions to make more mortgage credit available in their areas. they argue persuasively that they should be able to make an educated judgment about where they will deposit their savings based on the probability of their being able to obtain mortgage loans from the institutions in which they have made deposits. s. 1281 does  apply to institutions in rural areas. and under the amendment which senator proxmire and i offered and which was adopted by the senate on july 26. the disclosure requirements of the bill are only prospective in their application. that is. institutions are  required to report the location of properties securing all the mortgages in their portfolios. the cost of supplying the information required by the bill will be less than $1 per mortgage. some who oppose s. 1281 argue that mortgage lending practices are  the only factors which cause older neighborhoods to decline. and they are right. however. "redlining" is one factor. and an important factor. causing neighborhood deterioration. and i do  believe that we should delay taking steps to deal with "redlining" until we can offer legislation which creates a remedy for all the causes of neighborhood decline. the home mortgage disclosure act of 1975 is  a cureall. but i believe it is a good bill and will discourage the practice of "redlining" which has developed in some cities. i urge my colleagues to vote for the bill.
the amendment would transfer section 221 from huds general insurance--gifund to its special risk insurancesrifund. the transfer would consolidate in one fha insurance fund all of the pha programs which congress recognized might be actuarially sound. the proposed transfer is appropriate because mortgages assisted under section 221 are similar to those assisted under hud programs already chargeable to the sri fund. for example. the section 235 and 236 programs. which are chargeable to the sri fund. are similar to the section 221 programs in that they are aimed primarily at providing housing for low income families. also. like mortgages insured under sections 235 or 236or under one of the other programs covered by .the sri fund. section 221 mortgages generally involve more risk than is involved in other hud programs. for example. the section 221(d) (2) program involves minimum downpayments. low downpayments generally correlate with increased mortgage -defaults because of the limited commitments of mortgagors to -properties involved and other factors. as a result. the section 221(d) (2) program has  been actuarially sound. and this has adversely affected the entire gi fund.  in addition. by explicit statutory authorization. mortgage insurance premiums have been charged in the section 221(d) (3) belowmarketinterestratebmirprogram thus. that program has made cash contribution to the gi fund. yet losses on the sale of bmir projectswhich are chargeable to the gi fundare generally higher than on other projects which are. the security for mortgages insured under the gi fund. . because of losses in the 221 programs gi fund receipts from operations have  been adequate for the last several years to cover both operating costs and mortgage insurance benefit claims. indeed. the cash position of the fund in recent months is such that receipts from operations will probably be inadenquate to pnv r p p.n np.rtion costs in the near future. the national housing act authorizes treasury borrowing to pay mortgage: insurance claims in cash. but does  authorize borrowing to pay operating expenses or interest expense on. borrowings. present borrowing authorizations contemplate that a fund will generate future income adequate to repay borrowings. in the case of gi fund borrowing. this can be forecast based on past or present experience or future projections. primarily because of section 221 deficits. however. the sri fund. with its provision for appropriations to make up deficits. meets the anticipated deficit problem headon by recognizing. that appropriations will be needed to cover programs chargeable to that fund. the proposed transfer of section 221 to the special risk insurance fund is imperative because of the profound negative impact which section 221 has had on the general insurance fund. if section 221 were to remain in the gi fund. it is. quite possible that the gi fund will be unable to meetits operating expenses and other obligations in 1976. transferring section 221 from the gi fund to the sri fund would be a sound legislative solution to this problem. the proposed transfer would convert the fund from a deficit position of several hundred million dollars into a reserve position. while the negative position of the sri fund would become more pronced if section 221 were transferred to it. the increased losses which would be attributable to the sri fund could be dealt with effectively because congress has authorized appropriations to be made to cover losses sustained by the sri fund. congress granted this authority for appropriations because the programs that were placed in the fund may  be operable on an actuarially sound basis.
i thank my colleague. . i was saddened to learn of the death of congressman wright patman of texas. i have served on the committee on banking and currency the committee on banking. housing and urban affairssince i first came to the senate. i am  in my 10th year. so that was 9 years and some months ago. the first conference between the house and the senate that i attended was chaired by the hoable wright patman. and there were many conferences thereafter. i knew him. as senator proxmire said. as a very genteel man. in many respects as a very humble man. although he was kn nationally as a very difficult personality at times. i found  a man of a difficult personality but rather a man of great humanity and gentility. he was always fair. always equitable. as a freshman. i remember very well how courteous he was in letting us speak and listening to our views. i always appreciated it. i got to k him a little bit personally. socially. at dinners. he had a wit and a warm humor. and he was just a nice human being. he has had a great impact on banking in this country. he has had a great impact on the housing policies that have come under his committees jurisdiction. many. many americans will always be grateful for his work. i count myself among them. i commend the senator from texas for his resolution. i join with him and his colleagues in the delegation from texas in extending our deepest sympathy to the patman family.
this 120 percent of fair market value standard was overwhelmingly approved by the senate in the housing communities development act of 1974. and overwhelmingly adopted by the senate. under this bill there is a 5year limitation. and i do  understand the premise. could the senator from colorado give me the premise. what was the premise with the estimate he got on thewhat was it200 million. was that the figure.
and myself will authorize emergency mortgage relief funds for mashpee. mass. mr. brooke and i were successful in amending the 1977 supplemental appropriations bill to include $1 million in mortgage relief payments to assist the residents of mashpee. as a result of an indian land dispute. the citizens of mashpee have been hard pressed to meet their mortgage obligations. the suit filed by the wampag indians has affected the whole ecoic stability of the town. it is essential that we provide some type of financial assistance to the residents of this area who could be forced to sell their homes under distressful conditions. or in fact. lose their homes for lack of financial assistance until the dispute can be settled or negotiated.
again i commend our colleague for introducing this amendment. as sponsor of the gnma tandem program. along with the senator from california . the $42.000 limit is just  adequate. as the senator from new york has pointed out. in todays high cost areas. i believe the senator has performed a great service in introducing this amendment. this amendment would increase the mortgage limits from $42.000 to $49.000. and. in the second section. increase the sales price limit to $55.000. i want to be sure of that. i think to increase it any higher would be getting into the super high cost range. and i think that would be a mistake. i would certainly recommend to the chairman that we accept this amendment as in keeping with the intent of the gnma tandem program.
i should say that if that were all in the record. with the telegram here from mr. agger. we would desire to investigate further into that one matter in order to be abs6lutely sure of the legal issues involved. as the matter stands . it does  become necessary. but it can be added in with the rest. the senate finds itself in this position: we are  trying to convict anyone. we are  trying to remove anyone from office. we are  attempting to punish anyone. but we do wish to k whether under all the circumstances there is such a reasonable doubt as to the suitability of the individual and .the suitability of the appointment apart from the individual. that we should decline to confirm the appointment. turning to the second point. i was about to quote from the testimony of commissioner eugene e. agger relating to the circumstances under which mr. meaneys service to the bank was discontinued. i read from mr. aggers testimony on page 64. referring to judge meaney. he said: he was counsel for the liquidation and was paid a salary of $20.000 a year for that service. i came in 3 years afterward and it seemed to me at the time that in view of the status of the liquidation that was an excessive amount with which to burden the liquidation. coupled with aher fact that i felt i wished to prevent at least the repetition of it. namely. that there had been an additional allowance of $10.000 to mr. meaney in connection with something. a case that came before a vice chancelor. i assume it was legal because the vice chancelor permitted it. but it seemed to me it was objectionable from the point of view of my sworn duty as a trustee to protect the ultimate creditors and depositors of that bank. again mr. agger said. as is found on page 66: i felt that it may have been perfectly legal. but i will say frankly it looked like a lawyer on two sides of the issue. because. on the one hand. there was the issue of these certificate holders. and. on the other hand. there was the issue of the liquidation. while i do  presume to criticize it. i felt. from my own point of view. it was the sort of thing i did  want to happen again. that is further discussed on pages 88 and 89. and by aher witness on pages 137 and 138. the decision in the case which brought forth the $10.00( fee is reported in 130 new jersey equity 89. and also at page 102. the decision of the vice chancelor is printed in memorandum form. but does  go into detail about the allowance of the attorneys fee. what was this litigation. in substance. it was litigation dealing with the relative rights of the holders of certain guaranteed first mortgage participation certificates issued by the trust company. i am sure that if the senator from illis has been familiar with the liquidation of banks during the depression. he is familiar with such circumstances. which constantly arose. where some creditors of the bank were more than general creditors. they had invested in what were called guaranteed first mortgage participation certificates. they had bought certificates representing interests in a pool of mortgages the payment of which was guaranteed by the bank. these creditors were of course claiming a right to priority over the other creditors of the bank. among other things there was a claim of the trust company itself as the owner of $74.500 of these certificates. there were the general creditors and the general depositors. the bank therefore was interested from the point of view of the general depositors of the bank itself. as opposed to the special creditors. it so happens that under the statute of the state the commissioner of banking and insurance becomes a trustee also in this matter. the commissioner. as i understand. drew additional compensation for handling both features of litigation in which he was involved. but in his capacity as trustee designated judge meaney. who was his counsel as liquidator also as his counsel as trustee. it was pointed out in the testimony.  by judge meaney. but by someone else who was testifying for him. that he felt there was a distinction. at least a technical distinction. between acting for the liquidator at $20.000 a year and acting for the same man as trustee under these circumstances at some additional fee. the point which i wish to makeand i think that is about all that needs to be said about itis that as the liquidation proceeded the bank was unsuccessful and the special creditors were successful. they succeeded in being held to be special creditors. they got their full allowance. the $74.500 for the bank itself was cut out. the guaranty by the bank was held to be a direct obligation of the bank. which canceled its own claim. then the fees were allowed. there were about $3.300.000 worth of these certificates. about 1 percent was allowed as a fee. or $35.000. $10.000 of that was designated to go to judge meaney. the counsel for the trustee. waving aside for the moment the fact that he might have been representing conflicting interests. we presume that they need  strictly be held to be conflicting interests. but the result was that. being paid $20.000 a year for fulltime service as liquidator. judge meaney proceeded to render service in some other capacity. at the same time. and received $10.000 additional. either that $10.000 was  earned or he was using part of his full time to earn it. it seems to me that when he received $10.000 for his services to the trustee. rendered during the period when he was employed to give full time to the liquidator. he should have credited the $10.000 against his $20.000 annual salary. or else there was something the matter with his fulltime employment contract.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoad at this point a communication from the mortgage bankers association of new jersey. relating to this amendment and in support of the amendment. . there being objection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. i am glad to join in sponsoring senator percys bill to provide homeownership opportunities for lowincome families. the bill seeks to use fully the resources of private enterprise in making such housing available. in this it is in line with the philosophy permeating the rent supplement program. it is clear that only through combining the efforts and resources of the public and private sectors can we mount a successful attack on urban slums. as senator percy has told the press. there are aspects of his bill which undoubtedly will need perfecting. i welcome his flexibility of mind on this score. for there are certain aspects of the measure which raise questions in my mind. we must be sure. for example. that the bills provision permitting families participating in the program to choose their neighbors in way weakens its equal opportunity clause. it would be a ghastly irony if the percy program were to be used to perpetuate racial segregation or white or negro ghettos. the implications of the proposed authority for mortgage guaranties by insurance companies and waiving of antitrust law provisions to that end. need. i think. to be fully explored. i hope in the course of committee consideration of the bill stress will be put on the role of the program in the rehabilitation of existing housing. this. i k. is the intent of the principal sponsor. and i should like to see it spelled out by the committee in a way that makes it clear it is one of the cardinal provisions and the purpose of the measure.
may i ask the chairman of the committee on banking and currency a particular question with respect to this report as it bears on the matter of housing. the chairman es in his report that the committee expects to bring in a bill to extend title vi of the national housing act. under which the major amount of construction. that is. new construction. for veterans is taking place. may i ask the chairman two questions on that. one. how soon is that expected to be brought in. and two. will it give the fha adequate additional insurability authorization. so that builders throughout the country may be reassured in going forward with many projects for veterans housing. i understand. for example. that current applications that is immediately before the time limit expired. so far as the fha is concerned. were running at the rate of as much as $400.000.000 a week. i realize that was a pentup demand. but i understand that the going demand for fha title vi mortgage guarantees was about $50.000.000 a week. will the chairman give us information on that point.
. i move to strike out the last word in order to ask the gentleman from michigan . two questions: first. what is the amount of the expansion in mortgage insurability which we are called upon to make in title vi.
. this is an extremely important amendment going to the heart of such housing shortages as exist in the country and is directly a matter which affects veterans. section 213 provides that veterans cooperatives may be financed on liberal terms through fha guaranteed mortgages. i will  detain the committee with the fact of the liberality of these terms. they are a fact. and a great many veterans coops have started up around the country. the difficulty they ran into is that they could  get mortgage money. and so the congress a couple of years ago passed a law which enabled fannie may. as we call the federal national mortgage associationfnmahere. to provide an aggregate of $30 million in advance commitment money for such projects. definitely evidencing its intention that such projects should be favored. i might say in my city. in new york city. it represents one of the favorite methods by which veterans can get together and solve their middleincome housing problems to own their own apartments. it is a special scheme for helping veterans in home ownership. who are  looking for separate structures. single family homes. but apartments. and especially applicable to big city life. the mal question would be if $30 million was provided roughly 2 years ago and only $12.500.000 of that were used. leaving a balance of $17.500.000 which this bill makes available for commitments up to september 1. 1953. why am i here seeking to increase the amount to $200 million. the reason is as follows: it has been the mal custom of the congress to provide that only 10 percent of the amount provided in just such a situation as this should go to any one state. hence the amount under this particular law to which i have referred was limited to $3.500.000. in that case just a little more than 10 percent. the fact is that this particular section of the law. in this kind of housing. is very attractive in big states and is  so attractive in small states. hence we have this situation: of the applications pending. $121 million out of $180 million are lively applications that could be acted upon maryland accounts for $23 million and california accounts for $9.500.000. therefore. if the $3.500.000 limitation for any one state were removed. something in excess of a figure of $100 million would be necessary to meet the total demand for advance commitments right . the fha has addressed itself to this subject in a letter dated june 18. 1953. addressed to the staff director of the banking and currency committee of the other body. in which they show that there are  eligibility statements outstanding under this particular section of the law and applications in process for 118 projects consisting of something like 19.000 units. and which will involve $180 million in mortgage money. i quote from the letter: we also assume that permanent financing has been arranged for the 40 projects under "eligibility statements outstanding." however. i have means of king just what the conditions are with respect to delays. if any. in connection with these 40 projects moving from this classification into "commitments outstanding." the letter goes on to state that the mortgage money market is of such a character. and in view of limitations in the law. with respect to fnma which i have described of only $3.500.000 per state. that these very desirable projects which have been in preparation -and planning for a long time by the veterans involved can participate because the mortgage money is  available. therefore i am seeking to increase the amount which is available for veterans housing projects by $170 million over the amount which is provided in this bill and keep it available until april 1. 1954. may i emphasize this one point. we all agree that home ownership is desirable. we all agree that middleincome housing represents the greatest lack which we have. we all agree that if there is anything in the world we want to do it is to help veterans. all of these things are joined in these section 213 projects. i am seeking today to facilitate them in a very actual way. these are actual projects in being and under way. i emphasize this point. which i think is of the greatest importance. this does  represent inflation. when you build homes occupied by veterans. which they own on reasonable terms. you add to the wealth of the country. and you are substituting for money what is even more desirable than money. good living conditions for the veterans of all wars.
. i am in favor of this measure and join with other members who have said that the subcommittee has done a fine job in bringing it here for consideration today. but i do think that if the measure went by as a routine proposition without some e being taken of what it really means in terms of policy on this side of the aisle. which  has the majority and the responsibility for policy. it would be a mistake. these are direct loans by the government for mortgage purposes. i would like to have seen the committee in addition actually increase the authorization to the tune of $200 million. it is a fact today that veterans are buying homes and that most of the new homes are being sold almost exclusively to veterans. this is  a good situation for the ecoy of the country and i hope the gentleman from new york . and other members of the committee on banking and currency will liberalize mortgage terms in the forthcoming house bill so as to give veterans. who are also very numerous in the countrythere are about 20 million veterans and about 60 million people gainfully employedan opportunity to get into the new housing market. our sights should be set  for a million new homes a year. which is inadequate to americas needs and inadequate to americas productive capacity. but to  less than 11/2 million homes a year and to an optimuum 2 million new homes per year. let it be ed that the republican majority in the house of representatives has fear of bringing in a bill for direct government loans for home mortgages where veterans can find mortgage money otherwisethe question  being determined by doctrinaire considerations but by a determination  to stop the homebuilding program.
i should say. too. that the impetus ought to be in the direction of lower mortgage interest. insofar as we can possibly affect mortgage interest rates upon the fundamental basis that we have an outstanding commitment to the country made by the president. and the president has. in effect. said that if it is necessary to accept deficits in order to avoid a recession he will accept deficits. so whatever stimulus is required to the use of the productive capacity of the countryand newhome starts are certainly one of its fundamental basesi hope very much that it will be given. and i think it is very salutary and indeed very encouraging that this measure brought out by this committee represents a realization in part of that commitment. and that we are  afraid at all to undertake a direct lending program and extend it where it is necessary to expand the rate of home construction. i hope that same philosophy of initiative and doing something affirmative about our problems will continue to control with this majority in the house of representatives.
. in my own time i shall make my own argument regarding the matter. but at this time i wish to make a brief statement and to ask a question. i am deeply disquieted about the willingness to give up so easily the amount proposed for the purchase of mortgages. particularly in view of the conditions existing in the country. i believe that the senator from tennessee and the other senators who voted with him came rather close to making out a good case for the large increase they proposed. i could  join them in that effort. because i thought the committee had looked into the matter quite carefully. and i thought their amendment would have caused the program to go too far. too fast. however. it seems to me that  we would be going too far. too fast. does the senator from alabama feel in good conscience that the $350 million increase is all that is needed in order to make a contribution to the correction of the very disastrous situation involved in the present mortgage market. especially as it affects gis and other proper borrowers. or does the senator from alabama believe that. upon consideration of the entire matter. the present proposal is the only way out. and is a compromise which must be made.
. i make these comments because the housing bill represents very much the type of program i have in mind. urban renewal is composed of loans and grants to localities which result in increased land values. greater tax revenues in the future for both local and federal government. and improved living facilities in slum areas which pesently have a debilitating effect on community growth. college housing is a loan program repayable to the government over 50 years on which the government receives  only interest payments but also the administrative costs of the program. it adds  only to the nations physical assets but more important. to the development of our nations youth. fnma mortgage market operations comprise the purchase of actual negotiable assets and their subsequent sale in order to maintain stability in the private mortgage market. while the government owns them. these mortgages represent an income producing investment. public housing is an example of the type of program which meets a continuing national need for lowcost dwelling units through annual federal contributions. however. while these funds do  result in a measurable return to the government. they do make possible the channeling of substantial amounts into an area where bond financing from the private market is used to build new housing. they contribute measurably to the practicability of our total housing effort. the original housing bill passed by congress earlier this session fell victim to the numbers game. the basic disagreement did  involve the desirability of the various programs. rather it was concentrated on the total amount provided for in the bill and its apportionment among the various items. the great emphasis on the shortrange budgetary impact of the original housing bill as set forth in the veto message did  take into account that a dollar spent on urban renewal grants has a wholly different ecoic impact than a dollar spent on mortgages purchased from private lenders. the first stimulates the expenditure of additional dollarsin a ratio of 5 to 1from private and local government sources to create new physical assets and revenue for our nation whereas the other represents additional investment capital in the money market bringing at the same time interest income into the federal treasury.
is it  a fact that the fnma is under an obligation to liquidate these mortgages rather than to keep them as a permanent investment. whether the senator agrees with this particular transaction or . is it  a fact that the law imposes an obligation on fnma to liquidate its mortgage portfolio.
i shall address myself only to one point. because i think there is a question of legislative responsibility here. why press for the adoption of a resolution which is a resolution of censure of the u.s. government when illegality or partiality or impropriety is  even alleged. on the contrary. it is disclaimed. the only excuse would be if there is other way. the senate has the absolute authority to amend the law. which says: manage and liquidate the existing mortgage portfolio of the federal national mortgage association in an orderly mannerand so forth. we can write into this law a requirement that mortgages may be sold only for cash. that they may  be sold for anything but cash. we have the absolute authority to do that. that ends this controversy immediately. because we have sold mortgages for cash before. since 1953. $500 million worth upon which we suffered a loss of $18 million in cash. if the proponents of this matter prefer that we take out losses in cash in order to keep our mortgage portfolio fluid and  be in the mortgage business. that is all right. too. but we can do that by amending the law and  by this "sense" resolution. that is what made me suspicious about this resolution. even though i was  inclined to agree that this was the kind of business judgment i would exercise. i got suspicious about it. i think the senator from utah is right. we are playing a game of pirouette. which is all very well if one wishes to have a little fun. but we must realize that this matter is of much more serious import than that. because. as i say. without any dishonesty or illegality being alleged or proven.  even charged or alleged. we are asked to pass a resolution of censure against the u.s. government. this is very unwise for us. . it just seems to me that if the proponents insist on bringing this up. and if they will  do it in a legislative way. the senate of the united states would be doing a disservice by handling the matter in the way proposed. it seems to me they should bear in mind the fact that at aher time when a member of the majority may be in the white house. the tables could be turned. that has happened before. and it may happen again. and we republicans might have a majority in the senate and in the house. i hope very much that the better judgment of the senate will prevail and that the proponents will abjure the political byplay and get down to cases and reject this whole proposition.
. the most serious housing gap in the nation today involves more than 13 million families who are  eligible for lowrent housing but who can find or can afford to pay for decent housing adequate to their needs. in its favorable report on the federal limited profit mortgage corporation last year. the banking and currency committee stated "that there is an urgent need for a supplementary system of housing financing to enable private enterprise to provide homes of sound standards of design and construction" for families of moderate income and for elderly people. since 1956. new york state has operated a limited profit housing programestablished under the mitchelllama lawand it has compiled an outstanding record in this field. the construction of more than 13.000 middle income housing units in new york state has been authorized so far under this program. and nearly 20 percent of these units have already been completed. it is this very successful program. expanded by the voters of new york on two occasions. that serves as the basis for the federal corporation i am proposing today. i believe that its establishment is essential if we are to achieve a national housing policy of a decent home and suitable living environment for every american family as called for in the housing act of 1949. the primary objective of this new federal program is the construction of housing units which in a large metropolitan area such as new york city would carry a monthly rent of approximately $20 to $25 per room. this rate represents a reduction of anywhere from 40 percent to 50 percent below the average rent level which middleincome families must  pay for adequate living quarters. to help promote the *construction of units which they can afford. and which will enable many of them to move out of substandard housing they  occupy. those borrowing from the federal limited profit mortgage corporation would be limited to a return of 6 percent. builders would also be assisted in keeping costs under the proposed program through the reduction of the interest rate on mortgages since the funds would be lent at lower cost. it would encourage communities to grant tax abatements on the new middleincome projects without giving up existing revenues from the site. and it would stimulate the use of urban renewal sites for this new construction in order to reduce the purchase price of the land involved. " as a result. rents and carrying charges would then be held at levels which could be afforded by middleincome families and elderly persons of modest means. it is also important to e that the program will enable private enterprise throughout the nation to better serve u.s. housing needs without substantial cost to the federal treasury or prejudicial impact on the budget. through the issuance of governmentguaranteed bonds which do  require direct loans from the treasury. the corporation would lend funds in the form of 50year. 90percent mortgage with the remaining 10 percent supplied as investment or downpayments. the borrowing rate would be identical with that charged the corporation when it secured the funds plus onehalf of 1 percent to cover operational costs.
madam president the pending amendment. upon which 3 hours was allotted under the unanimousconsent agreement. raises the issues on probably the single most important aspect of this bill. indeed. the senator from alabama stated that other than the question of what do we do about moderate income housing. the bill pretty much continues other programs. aside from the proposed aid to commuter transportation and the open spaces provisions. each of which would amount to $100 million. the bill is pretty much a standard housing bill. expanding and extending programs which we have and with which we are thoroughly familiar. until we come to the proposed 40year. ownpayment plan. for which my proposal is a substitute. then we get into the one new aspect of this measure. i should like to state. because probably this will be the final time in which it will be stated. precisely what my amendment proposes as a substitute for the 40year. ownpayment program. my amendment proposes a program to organize a federal limitedprofit mortgage corporation. which will be a u.s. government corporation. in the first instance financed by a $100 million stock subscription investment from the treasury. that will be the only investment in the corporation by the united states. and it will also be the only investment in this whole model. moderateincome program on the part of the united states forever. that would be the end of it. the united states would invest $100 million. and that would be it. the program would either work or it would . but that would be the end of the u.s. investment. there is involved neither subsidy  any other appropriation. the program is entirely selfoperative. the proposed corporation. as a u.s. corporation. would have the right to issue bonded debt. which it would sell to individual investors in very much the same way that public housing is financed today. but with the essential difference that whereas the bonds would be sold to the average investor like public housing bonds. the united states would be under obligation to provide a subsidy for the purpose of making the proposed bonds good. but the bonds would stand upon their own bottoms as bonds issued by a federal corporation which. if defaulted uponand i think we all k from our experience with housing mortgage guarantees that such eventuality is extremely remotethe holder would have the right to obtain u.s. governmentguaranteed bonds in lieu of those issued by the corporation. but the fundamental appropriation. which is very important. as i shall show in a moment. would involve only the fundamental seed money. the $100 million investment in this federal limitedprofit mortgage corporation. i contemplate that the corporation would have authority to issue $500 million worth of its bonds a year. and under the amendment as it is proposed the president would have the right at any time to add to that amount $500 million a year. and on some portion of it an additional $1.500 million. depending upon demand and depending upon the ecoic situation and the fiscal situation. these bonds would be a prime investment. because similar bonds of public housing corporations are a prime investment today. the market will take just about as much of them as is desired to be issued in order to finance public housing units. the money raised by the sal6 of the bonds will in turn be used as mal mortgage money for the purpose of financing middle income housing. middle income housing is very much defined in the same way as it is in the 40year. ownpayment program under the pending bill. it relates to people who fall in that socalled gap between those who are eligible for public housing and those who can afford private housing which is available today. it is proposed to make mortgage money available at a low interest rate. to wit. the going rate for federal money. plus onehalf of 1 percent for costs of administration. it is expected that within a reasonable compass of time. perhaps a few years. it should be possible to sell $2 billion worth of such bonds. these orders of magnitude are consistent with the public housing experience and the sale of bonds under the public housing program. the $2 billion in mortgage money should. of course. produce a very substantial amount of middle income housing. to give some idea as to what it can produce. i  refer to the new york program. the proposal in my amendment is essentially lifted from the new york program. which has been operative since 1955. in new york state it is called the mitchelllama program. whibh has been very successful in my state. i emphasize state. rather than cities. up to  there have been financed some 30.000 units. and approximately $450 million have been raised precisely in the fashion i have described the money would be raised through the federal limitedprofit corporation. as proposed in my amendment. based upon this experience. we estimate the $2 billion should be responsible for about 160.000 units. at the rate of about 40.000 units a year. in the state of new york. the voters have on two occasions actually supported the program by an overwhelming majority. they authorized $450 million in the available mortgage funds which i have described. that. in essence. is the plan. there is one further point to which i should refer. it is very important. we should mention the people who are expected to be the promoters or the sponsors of these housing projects. in new york state our experience has been that those who are largely interested are trade unions. one of the most prominent sponsors of housing of this character. in a large measure. has been the amalgamated meat cutters & butcher workmen: also cooperatives. because the plan lends itself to be turned into cooperatives. in the sale of the units to the members of the cooperative. which gets its mortgage money from the statein this case. of course. from the united states. however. the plan in new york state and the plan i propose here does  exclude private development. the only point with respect to private development is that the private developer is limited in his profit. he has. however. one advantage. at the end of 20 years he can redeem the whole project. if he can refinance it. so it does have. although limited. some attractiveness to private developers. in new york state the plan has had special attraction to insurance companies. also to employers. as private developers. because they find the plan very interesting. in that they can invest in private housing for their employees on a very desirable basis.
. i may  necessarily agree with the senator from wisconsin on the matter of interest rates. in terms of the effect of such an increase on our country and in regard to what it would mean to mortgage money in our country and to the cost of personal finance loans. and so forth. but certainly i can agree with the senator from wisconsin that this would  be a major point. and would  make a major difference. and that if this is the only "hard" thing the administration is going to do. it will be very much too little. and will  have the desired effect. and. therefore. on the doctrine of de minimis. probably is  worth the effort. as a part of the desirable and necessary "package." i think several things can be done. as the senator from wisconsin has said. lower interest rates are always desirable. i agree as to that. but i say something else mustbe done. we must undertake to find some way out of this problem. it may very well be that for a short time a fractional increase in shortterm interest rates would help stem this capital outflow. if it were part of a concrete "package"-a heavy "package"-of really doing things in this area. in that case. i could reluctantly go along with that proposal. although probably the senator from wisconsin could . but i agree with him that if this is the only "hard" thing that is going to be done. certainly it is  provident in terms of facing the issue.
as one who used to serve on the committee on banking and currency. i join with the others who have expressed satisfaction with the bill. as well as with its handling by my beloved friend. the senator from alabama. i should like to add only one point. we often discussed. in the committee. whether moves which would enlarge the mortgage money market. to make more mortgage money available. were inflationary. it seems to me that constantly we came to the conclusion that what adds as basically and constructively to the total resources and tranquillity of the country as does a measure such as this represents the conversion of goods. materials. and labor into extremely more valuable assets to the nation than the goods. materials. and labor represented. i add that because the american people should be reassured that this is one of the most constructive ways to stabilize our situation. rather than otherwise. lest we have given the superficial impression that by creating more availability of mortgage money. we are adding to the inflationary mood.
madam president. i wish to state for the record. so that it will be clear for purposes of taking my amendment to conference. if it is agreed to. as i hope it will be. that the only entities to which the amendment applies are to private entities. these private entities. whether cooperatives or what we call limited dividend corporations or voluntary corporations. and occasionally trade unions and civic organizations in the state of new york. are for the benefit of a state mortgage institution which sells bonds for this kind of mortgage or makes a loan in a way to get them the lower interest rate. but the project is completely private. this is  public housing. state. municipal. or federal. it is strictly private. except that it has the benefit of tax abatement and this pooling way of raising the mortgage funds in order to get a lower interest rate. on that representation only lies the basis upon which i would ask the senate to agree to my amendment.
. i wish to add one point on behalf of the senator from florida . the senator from florida had in mind offering an amendment which i was going to cosponsor on housing guarantees. in order to increase them. i think for the same reason we have refrained from offering our increases in the ceiling on the commercial and banking guarantees. he. too. has refrained. i believe that explanation in his absence is forthcoming.
. i do  believe there is any use in fencing around with this problem. because it is a very real problem. and it involves the entire fate of the rent supplement program. the senator from new jersey and i wrote to the secretary of hud in order to find out what was really the ambit of our problem. and he told us that it is a very serious matter. as has the chairman of the committee.on banking and currency. i am a member of the committee on appropriations. as is the senator from new jersey . and we wish to proceed in this matter with full respect to what i am satisfied was a majority sentiment in the committee. let us have doubt about that. in fairness to those who feel that this sentence should be written in. we were convinced that was the majority sentiment. matter what we thought about itand what we thought about it is very obviousthat is the majority sentiment. the reason for writing it into the report and  putting any provision in the bill is precisely as the senators have discussed on the floor of the senate. because it would have been legislation on an appropriations bill. but that does  prevent a majority of the committee on appropriations from saying to the administrator who is running this show: "look. this is the way we think this ought to be run. and if you dont run it this way. were going to have it firmly in mind when you come back for appropriations. as you will next year. and we will then be able to express our dissatisfaction." or even in conference. because the house allowed hing. "we will then be able to express our dissatisfaction with the way this is being run." we are dealing with realities.  with theories. and therefore i should like to say this to my colleague: first. let us understand what the language does before we make it broader than it really is. in the first place. this sentence does  even express an opinion on the nmortgages under the section 221(d)3 below market interest program because in that respect only 5 percent of the rent supplement housing is eligible to receive belowmarket interest rates. that is  an appreciable factor in respect of the 221(d)3 program. and i believe it is fair to say that this sentence was  aimed in that direction. with respect to the rent supplements themselves. it is my judgmenti am speaking as one member of the committeethat the sentence just referred to does  endeavor. for example. to deal with an underwriting or a bonding by a profit agency of 5 percent of the equity. even though it may  be putting up the cash. or the purchase of the land which the profit agency may own upon which the housing is being built. or other facilities which it might contribute to the construction which represent a 5percent investment.  does it deal with the length of time. though it would have to be in good faith and a reasonable period of time. during which the 5percent equity investment should be maintained in the property. . as to the substance: it is perfectly right that the law is  amended. it is perfectly right that if the administrator feels very strongly persuaded. and if he is encouraged by the degree of support he receives in the senate and in the house. he may very well say. "i will take my chances with the majority of the appropriations committee come next appropriation." but it seemed to senator case and myself that the majority of the committee on appropriations had the right. in writing the report. to put in its view. the senator from minnesota would  understand the situation if he thought otherwise. it is a view. a warning to the administrator that this is the view of the majority. those are the considerations. i believe that the idea of encouraging the profit organizations is excellent. the churches and labor unions of this country are concerned to a great extent. and they have done and can do much in this field. the committee is well aware of my point of view against the language. we can do hing about it in the bill. it represents. as i have- said. an expression of opinion by the majority of the committee. i do  believe that you can anticipate how this matter will work out. except in the dynamics of working it out. i believe the senator from minnesota is absolutely correct in taking the floor and stating how he feels. it is the duty of every senator to do so. it is my duty to say what i have said. it is for that reason that i emphasize what this proposal does  coverin short. that it is  as restrictive as one might think at first glance. but i am the first to say that if a restrictive policy is followed. it will cut off many of the rent supplement projects. and it is restrictive. and that is what senator case and i say.
. i should like to express the personal gratification i have had in working so closely in this matter with senators hart and mondale and their associates on the democratic side. i k that bespeaks the feeling of senator brooke. who joined with senator mondale in sponsoring the open housing amendment. of senator percy of the committee on banking and currency. and of senator scott. of the committee on the judiciaryall of whom helped emously in this field. i should also like to express my appreciation to senator baker. who. though did  agree with us all the time. was a very key factor in the reconciliation of the views of senator dirksen and ourselves. i have already paid my tribute to the miity leader. whether i have agreed with or disagreed with particular amendments that were written in. or whether i voted for or against them. i am very proud of the final product. which represents a real achievement and shows that the senate of the united states can operate when it really gets its teeth into a matter and wants to act. i repeat that i believe this will be aher historic milestone in the long progress from a century of neglect of the negro miity. an effort to deal with the new sociological migration in our country. which has so emphasized the problems of the slums and the ghettos. and will represent. in my judgment. a basic factor in the tranquility of our people and in the hopefulness which those in the ghetto may see for a better tomorrow. i feel very deeply that the senators whose names i have mentioned have every right to feel in their hearts that they have made a major contribution to the country. if senator percy will permit me. he said. "today is a great day". and i am certain those of us who were active in this matter feel precisely that way.
 can make a disaste:- determination unl6ss there is actual damage to public buildings and facilities iri the area. the new proposal in the bill i am introducing today itogether with two pieces of legislation already before the congress. can begin the job of restoring these areas of our cities. they will also restore the confidence of the businessman and the resident that. there is still hope for a better environment. the urban insurance bill has been reported ou. by the senate banking and currency committee as a separate title of the 1968 housing act. the bill would use private insurance companies. individual states. and the federal government to insure that businesses will be able to obtain and/or retain their insurance even though they may be located in a disadvantaged area. senator smathers and i have. both introduced proposals on this subject. i will support the bill as reported and hope for its expeditious consideration. the other bill already introduced is my amendment to the housing act. which would encourage cities to take over ownershipof the many abandoned properties in sections of our cities. the cities. or a private profit or cooperative buyer. could then obtain up to $10.000 per unit loans for rehabilitation of property in any deteriorated or deteriorating area. i have received support of this proposal from cities such as pittsburgh. atlanta. boston. and new york city. among others. i am hopeful this provision will be also included in the housing act of
 which members may want to hear. the first amendment relates to the utilization of individuals who live in slums and ghettos as employees. and of ghettobased business concerns as contractors or subcontractors. within various housing programs including public housing and the new interest subsidy programs contemplated in this bill. that is contained at the top of page 3. the contracting opportunity. which was  in the committees bill. is made available. wherever feasible. to business enterprises which are located in such areas or are owned in substantial part by area residents. as there are many of these. especially in the field of housing construction. it is a very desirable expansion of the opportunity which is contained at the top of page 3 in the current bill. it is highly desirable to stimulate such miity ownership and ecoic development activity in the ghettos. and this procurement preference approach permits that at negligible cost to government. the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from vermont . who is present on the floor. and i have learned about this from our work in the manpower subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. the second amendment picks up an item in the bill which is rather important. in the proposed section 235. the interest subsidy benefits are limited to the initial member and occupant of a dwelling in a cooperative. this limitation will prevent the program from meeting the continuing need for housing low- and moderateincome families in cooperatives because it prevents a vacated dwelling unit from being sold for occupancy by a subsequent eligible family. the amendment would correct this. a subsequent member who meets the income limits would be eligible to obtain an interest subsidy. the cooperative program differs from individual ownership because the 40year project mortgage continues upon resales of cooperative memberships. in contrast to sales of single family homes when there is generally a new mortgage and refinancing. moreover. upon the sale of a cooperative membership. the income limits would be enforced by the cooperative corporation to assure that the purchaser is eligiblesubject to fha supervision. also. the cooperative has an option to repurchase at a reasonable price which the subsequent eligible purchaser can afford. the third amendment relates to a situation in the state of new yorkand it is true in several other statesin which profit and other private owners of rental or cooperative housing are financed under a scheme. which in new york we call mitchellama. through direct mortgage loans or pooled mortgaged loans operated under a state or under a local program. with the funds usually raised through state or local bond sales. there is reason why projects originating from local or state initiative of a private nature should  be eligible for the interest subsidy which is authorized by the bill. the third amendment makes them eligible for that purpose. in the same manner in which the committee accepted my amendment applying rent supplements to such programs. those are the three amendments. i hope the senate will act favorably on those amendments
let me point out to the senator that we are  going quite so high as he says. we are trying to make a marginal adjustment. we are going from $30.000 to $32.500.  from $30.000 to $40.000. and going from $37.500 to $40.000. but it is a marginal adjustment. in answer to the senators argument. let me point out that we do  help the $10.000 fellow by depriving people who can afford to buy a more expensive house. that goes for 80 percent of home buyers. we have to make up for what is a bad situation. as to mortgage interest rates. one of the ways in which we can do that is by being somewhat more liberal on the guarantee side. so that instead of taking the national homebuilders figure which. as the senator says. is 40. i am trying to do something which is marginal to care for the particularly high costs areas. leaving the generality of the mortgages to the formula itself which the committee devised.
. it excludes special profit corporations organized by established business interests. in my case. i happen to be working with the mutual savings banks and also with the commercial banks to take over a lot of this property and rehabilitate it and rehabilitate the neighborhood in which it is located. it omits tenant cooperatives. for example. a cooperative movement. it omits limited dividend corporations. in my state. for example.a great deal of the housing is carried on by corporations which may only get a 6percent return on their investment. plus 2percent amortization. this 3year requirement without any qualification results in materially restricting the opportunity to actually do something with what the committee has provided. finally. we find one very grave deficiency in the committees formula as it relates to people who can afford to pay much more rent than they are paying. if any more. while they do  come within the lower classification for public housing or moderateincome housing. yet under the section 502 program we find that if there is rehabilitation in a building. the rent for an existing tenant who does  meet the 502 eligibility standard immediately is forced up and this may result in an absolutely sensational rise in many cases. this will happen in a significant number of cases in spite of the fact that the committee somewhat ameliorated the limitation by adopting a new standard in section 502 of 90 percent of median income in an area instead of 135 percent of public housing limits which was heretofore the rule.
. i would like to ask the senator a question so as to spread the information on the record. because i believe the sbics ought to be encouraged. i think it is very desirable to do so. i was on the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. i believe. when it first started. i believe in the stimulus of small business enterprises. i do  wish to be construed as opposing the amendment. however. i think it is appropriate to have an explanation on the record where there is a case for the mesbics. and apparently the case has been proved. what about the case for the sbics and their adequate backing of the proposition which the senate is being asked to approve.
i thank the senator. therefore it follows that a community development corporation under the oeo act recently signed by the president are eligible to qualify within the meaning of "redevelopment area" in respect to assistance under the public works and ecoic development act of 1965. as amended. including the new section 107 public works impact program.
. i hope very much that the managers of the bill may be able to accept this amendment because it carries out the fundamental thrust of the bill. but deals with a particular local situation which we have in new york and which requires this amendment in order to enable new york to have the same benefit as every other state regarding this particular proposition. remic. a public benefit corporation established by the state of new york in 1973. is enpowered to provide mortgage insurance to encourage the flow of private mortgage funds aimed at conserving or rehabilitating the existing housing stock in neighborhoods the city designates or neighborhood preservation areas. unfortunately the combination of the widespread lack of mortgage credit and continued high interest rates on these types of mortgages has precluded the implementation of the program. the provisions of section 107 of s. 1483 to extend coverage to conventionally financed. multifamily housing. coupled with existing authority to permit a portion of the gnma purchase authority for existing dwellingssection 313(e) would permit remic to insure preservation or rehabilitation mortgages. and thus encourage the flow of private mortgage funds for this purpose and permit refinancing and rehabilitation without undo rental increases to the low- and moderateincome families  residing in this housing. key to remics participation in this expanded program is an administrative determination to allocate a portion of any available contract authority for the purchase of mortgages on existing properties. it is hoped that the legislative history concerning section 107 of s. 1483 will make it clear that it is the congressional intent to encourage the use of these funds when it will bring about neighborhood conservation or revitalization. many members. i k. are well acquainted with new york city and will follow even the neighborhood concept which i will describefor example. we have a very grave slum situation in an area called the south bronx. one of our boroughs. residential boroughs. immediately contiguous to the south bronx is a very fine old neighborhood which surrounds new york university. it is called university heights. this concept which i have described would apply to that particular neighborhood preservation. in other words. preserving the neighborhood next to the slum area in order to avoid the slums extending further than they already do while we work at it. and there is a great deal being done in the south bronx improving that particular area. so it is a very desirable concept. in our casethat is. in the case of the state of new yorkwe have an insurer. which is a profit statesponsored agency. rather than a private insurer. yet the use of the words in the bill. page 7. line 16. "qualified private insurer" we believe might  include this public benefit corporation although it is  clear that it would  include it. in order to clarify the situation. my amendment has been introduced. i have discussed it with the managers of the bill. and i hope very much they may look sympathetically upon it.
the other matter i wished to bring upthough the senator has  gotten to it. we may as well settie it is amendment  3. that amendment deals with section 8 of the housing act and is a very material question involving. again. low- and moderateincome housing. some things have been done there which i think really require some explanation. first. and very important. at page 8 of the joint explanatory statement of the committee on conference. we find the following sentence: the amendment also includes language limiting the fair market rent basis for housing assistance under the section 8 program to an aggregate escalation of 10 per centum. and 20 per centum in individual market areas. based on rates published in the federal register through september 8. 1975. instead of the language proposed by the house. that is critically important. because fuel costs will go into that aggregate escalation of 10 percent and that is very pertinent. because we have had this rise in prices by opec. we lx k that one of the things that has bedeviled the housing market. in terms of reation and rehabilitation and new construction. has been a lack of interest in it on the part of those who own properties and manage properties. this has been very. very serious. the thing that i think needs explanation is the aggregate escalation of 10 percent. what does that mean. is it national. is it by type of property. it is 10 percent of what. the agency is going to have to k that almost from the word "go." in order to administer what the committee has prescribed for it.
. i have the great satisfaction today to report to my colleagues the opening of a $6 million commercial complex in the bedfordstuyvesant community in brooklyn. n.y. the late robert f. kennedy founded the bedfordstuyvesant corporation. in which i joined with him. i have consistently supported the gifted concept of community ecoic development corporations. in a multifaceted attack on poverty based upon a "special impact" program. the bedfordstuyvesant corporation was the first community development corporation and  over 40 of these programs are funded through the community service administration. it is backed by a list of eminent business and financial leaders per the appended list. the. results of congressional support for the concept of community development can be seen in bedfordstuyvesant. once a ghetto community with hope and future. . the community can point with pride to its new commercial complex. with its infusion of new capital. and the creation of new jobs. this can only be a starting point on which to build and grow.  only will this result in ecoic gain. but it will also increase the social services available to the community. the bedfordstuyvesant corporation has shown that local communities can and do form the leadership of an ecoic community to develop local businesses. the support of major corporations. such as lane bryant. nathans famous. chemical bank. and consolidated edison. add to the ecoic strength and confidence of the community. an article in fridays new york times. written by charlayne hunter. highlights the renewed spirit and confidence in this community. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
and this is a rather longstanding problemis that these particular units have remained at artificially low levels in terms of mortgage limits. because there have been greater increases in mortgage limits for larger apartments. and the fact is that efficiency and onebedroom apartments are more expensive to build than multibedroom apartments. because a greater proportion of the space is devoted to costly bathrooms and kitchens. we have in new yorkand i think it is true in many other placesa very materially growing factor of single occupancy. which  only relates to older people but also to younger people. so the concept we have dictates the requirement for some increase in cost. i point out the following to my colleagues. in connection with considering this amendment. which i hope they will consider taking to conference: i am  fixed in concrete on the amount by which the cost limits should be increased. we have suggested. as i say. 50 percent for the zero. the efficiency. and 20 percent for the onebedroom. i believe that is a factual question which the conferees will have to settle with the department and then arrive at some fair solution. but in order to have it considered at all. it would have to be in the conference. and that is my reason for proposing it.
i am glad the senator brought it to my attention. because senator mathias also asked me to propose this. so i am proposing it for him and for me. his name is on the amendment. i think it is important to accept what the department itself has suggested. that is. conform it to the regulations of the secretary. i. like the senator from wisconsin. do  wish any single to replace any eligible applicant under the present law. but we are advised. and that is why i read this with such care. from the biggest housing market there is. that what is happening  is that apartments which are available. because there are for whatever may be the circumstances--eligible applicants. simply are  utilized. therefore. if there should be an opportunity for singles of this character to utilize apartments which. because of the eligibility standards. are  utilized. that is the reason that i propose the amendment.
. i have listened to the debate with great concern and great interest. i am the ranking member of this committee. i have served on it for many years. many of the arguments which have been made relate to the fact that this will be a general committee for small business. which it will . it is strictly a rifleshot operationto wit. that we have oversight over the sba. which. in effect. is exercised only by the small business committee. that is the whole point here and i have served on the committeeis one of the most important committees in congress. as time goes on and we get away from war and we get more into ecoic development. it will turn out to be the most important committee in congress. because the whole genius of the western world. which is freei mean in an ideological senseis based upon credit. the fact is that people expect that when they work today. they will collect 50 years hence and are perfectly willing to work today to do it. so i respect it fully. the difficulty. as i say. is that we have been carrying on the oversight with 63 days of hearings in the select committee as against 6 days of hearings relating to small business in the committee on banking. housing and urban development and that there is an instrument in the federal establishmentto wit. the sbawhich is to the executive department what the committee on small business is to the legislative department. therefore the responsibility should be coupled with the authority. we do actually oversee the small business administration. period. that is the only jurisdictioni think senator long was perfectly rightthat we seek. what is the complaint of small busi.. ness. really. the complaint of small business is that what is everybodys business is odys business. in short. small business. as all business. is affected by everything that goes through here in the main. except for matters connected with national security. defense. and foreign relations. and even they affect business generally. but with small business we have a deep ideological commitment to it in this country as an element of freedomwe believe in competition. again. that is what distinguishes us. the market system. from communist countries. small business. which is our particular care. both for business and ideological reasons. by far. is the largest employer of labor in this country and has the largest number of firms. it is a very. very big segment of the american ecoy. it needs a committee which especially understands it. therefore. it seems to me that when we created an executive agency expressly for the purpose of dealing with the problems of the credit of small business. we fell into this fieldand experience. by the way. has demonstrated that. we have had lots of scandals related to the sba. we have had big problems in management in the sba that are quite apart from the operations that are of a legal character. where the actual oversight is carried on by a committee. it at least ought to have the authority to deal with the legislation which affects the sba. as it is today. i do  think our oversightand that is essentially what it is. we are doing itcarries the weight which it will carry if we deal with legislation affecting the sba. if we have to confirm sba administrators. think of the aaly. he is responsible to us. essentially. yet we do  confirm him. the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs does. this is a very important point. we understand how things work around here. it depends upon argument. persuasion. and judgment. but it also depends a good deal on muscle. our chairman
. the reason for this amendment is to give a certain class of sponsors of low and moderate income housing. to wit. public bodies. cooperatives. limited dividend corporations. private. profit corporations and associations. and other comparable mortgagors approved by the secretary. who are regulated by the federal. state. or local laws as to rent. charges. and other methods of operation. an opportunity to get mortgages either under section 221(d) (3) or 221(d) (4). because 221(d) (4) is confined to private sponsors other than those referred to in 221(d) (3). the inability to choose between the two has prevented many projects from going forward because of the need for higher cost limits which are provided by 221(d) (4). obviously. the secretary has complete discretion as to whether she will lend at all. therefore. the applicant should  be inhibited in the first instance and should be allowed to choose as between 221(d) (3) and 221(d) (4). yet because of the technical terms of the law. those types of limited dividends. profit. et cetera. which i have described. have been limited and they have been unable to apply under 221.(d) (4) and have had to confine themselves to applying under 221(d) (3). . on the cost limits. for example. a single room apartment. an efficiency. under 221(d) (3). the cost limit is $16.860. under 221(d) (4) for a comparable apartmentand they are all scaled up after thatthe figure is $18.450. that is a difference of about $1.600. which could make or break a given project. obviously. it is our desire to facilitate the construction of low- and moderateincome housing. also we wish to encourage profit and limited dividend sponsors. remembering that the secretary has complete discretion as to whether or  to issue a mortgage at all. we believe that the change proposed by this amendment should be made and that the sponsors of low- and moderateincome housing eligible under section 221(d) (3) should be able equally. if the secretary agrees. to use section 221(d) (4).
fourdeckers. which also deal with the same problem. so while realizing that. if the committee is kind egh to accept the amendment. when we come to conference the committee may have to adjust it based on problems which it may face in the total hierarchy of mortgage limits. at least it will bring the matter to the conference so that it can be dealt with. apparently. we think. it was just overlooked. as it has  been dealt with in the bill.
that is very much within the range of what is happening. it is unfortunate. but that is what is happening. may i point this out: the senator speaks of the fact that we will appropriate only a small amount compared to the aggregate need. but we will  allocate it all to the high cost areas. even in the high cost areas this is an authorization. it is  a mandate. the limit of $42.000 remains in the mal cost area. hud will allocate it accordingly. but if we are going to help the high cost area at all. that is really what i am arguing about. we have to raise the limit. what i am pointing out to the senator. and i believe i k his thinking. is that we feel the figure should be $49.000 when he and senator brooke have this in conference they will undoubtedly review it across the board in connection with all the mortgage limits and they will adjust it to what they feel it should be. whether it is $1.000 less or . at least this will give them the order of magni. tude which is required to meet the situa. tion.
. on the issue of inflation. i submit to my colleagues that housing is  inflationary. that is something we have been fighting around here for a long time. we have been fighting this because the bookkeeping of the united states in this regard happens to be cockeyedand it isunlike the bookkeeping of any business concern. this bookkeeping says that it does  matter what your assets are. people go around tearing their hair about the national debt without ever comparing it to its proportion of the gross national product. that has been going down and down and down rather than up and up and up. it is the same with this housing situation. we are adding to the basic and fundamental resources of a country when we build and preserve housing. therefore. we may be spending more. but we have more. finally. the idea that construction is straining at the labor market or the material supply market contradicts the findings of every ecoist who is studying the situation. including all the banking ecoists.
. the prototype method. of course. is automatic. because then the mortgage limits are based on the cost of the prototype. we need a system of setting mortgage limits that reflects building cost differentials and that is able to respond more promptly to rising construction costs. i feel the prototype system does this effectively. i realize that the prototype problem is a serious one for the committee. but i felt it is my duty to submit it. because i deeply believe that it is necessary to facilitate construction in the cities. but i would like to hear from the chairman and the ranking republican member of the committee who are handling the bill as to whether they feel they could do anything about the prototype costs in considering this bill. if they can. i hope they might have a suggestion as to how we might deal with our problems. which. as they k. are very real on higher costs.
. i send to the desk the amendment as revised. omitting that part of it which is on page 1 under the heading "flexible mortgage ceilings for multifamily mortgage insurance programs" striking all on page 2. and striking page 3 down to line 14. the new heading to read. "increased mortgage ceilings for multifamily mortgage insurance programs." i submit the amendment in that way.
