because the senator is absolutely correct. what is being done here is being done with a complete. total kledge that it is unconstitutional. it is  a matter of it is a close question. it is kingly being donekingly in the sense of king that it is unconstitutional. because. ideed. if it were a close question. then do it through article five. amend the constitution. do it through authorization hearings of a bill. appropriations hearings. do it that way. oh. that brings it out into the full light of day. and you k what happens to a fish when you leave it out there for a long time. it starts to smell. it starts to smell. and believe me that is just like an old fish in the sunshine. that helms amendment. it is unbelievable to anybody. anybody outside this chamber. that you can go ahead and pass an amendment saying that the justice department and the courts should support the constitution. i say to the senator i think probably this is one of the sadder days or weeks or whatever it is we have been on this. but we will go at it just as long as we can. it is my understanding. incidentally. i say to the senator. that there are others who will have other amendments to this matter. it has been decided by a handfulincidentally. i find it absolutely amazing that. with all the numbers on their side and the president on their side and the attorney general. the majority leader. all of that cn their side. and they have to worry about the senator from ohio asking a question as to how many words he is going to be allowed. as to whether or  he is going to be able to read a little bit. i will tell you. they want this thing off the stage just as fast as they can get it off the stage. and that is why it is  coming off the stage.  until my legs. my voice. my bladder. or whatever. gives out. i think we just want everybody to k what it is that is going on. and that is just  so funny. it is pretty serious stuff. the impact of what is done here in terms of the legislation. both in the rejection of the weicker amendment and the adoption of the helms amendment. is obviously going to impact on future matters to come before this senate. are you going to see the first amendment done in by this way. that is what is next up on the board. you k that little item here. the first amendment to the constitution. "congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion." is that a little bit important to a few people around here. important egh. in other words. so that you feel that it ought to go the constitutional amendment route. you are  going to get it on a constitutional amendment route. you are going to get it in some quick ploy out here on the senate floor. but if you think that everybody wants to stand up and fight for the fact that congress is  going to establish a religion. is that what it is going to take to get the people excited. when all of a sudden a rabbi sitting there. a priest there. a minister there. and all of a sudden they are asking. "am i going to be the official religion. is it my religion that is going to be established. if . what is going to happen to me." how are they going to come at you. are you going to have the courts around. are you going to have the courts and the justice department around to protect your religious freedom. i will tell you one thing: you better start thinking about it. you did  have to start thinking about it until .  you can start to think about it. and you better start to worrying. we are  talking about any more busing . are we. we are  talking about blacks or hispanics or inner cities. where all those matters that maybe we do  agree with or maybe we do  like exist. we are talking about us. i assume that everybody believes in something. well. you just might be believing in the wrong thing. according to the senator from th carolina. you just might ife believing in the wrong thing. and then who is going to go ahead and stand in there for you. if you have the money. you are all right. perhaps i can tell all of you. and i am a lawyer and i should k. that it is a pretty expensive process. i think all of you have the right to have your government represent you on the matter of the first amendment. if somebody is coming down on you. if somebody is doing a rain dance on you because of whatever you believe in. for your sake i hope that this government will stand by you. matter what it costs or how many lawyers they have to send in or whatever remedy they want. that they will be able to do it for you so that you can believe as you want to believe. do you think it is going to end here. does any one of you really believe it is going to end here with "busing." did you believe it was going to end when the hyde amendment started with all these exceptions. and one by one those exceptions got peeled off. i remember in the last session of congress everybody said under circumstances would they ever prevent the funds from going to a woman who was raped. "my god. you can do that." we can. we did. 1 week ago. there it went. "under circumstances would a woman  get funded if she was pregnant by virtue of incest. under circumstances. it can happen." it did. 2 weeks ago. it is  going to end. that is the proposition i lay before you. it is  going to end. it is going to go on and on. i do  have the votes out here. i k that. but i have to make sure that it is going to be tough going every inch of the way. and sooner or later some people are going to wake up and understand that it longer encompasses their pet hate or their pet discrimination. but. indeed. what is being articulated has finally come to overwhelm them. i forgot. and i wish i had the exact quote in front of me. though somebody on my staff could get it for me. from the german theologian. i want to make sure i attribute it to the right person. i am speaking of the theologian who spoke of his experience prior to world war ii. first they came to get the labor unions. and ody spoke up. then they came to get the lawyers and ody spoke up. and then the teachers and ody spoke up. and then the jews and ody spoke up. finally they came to get me. and there was one left to speak. this is  the problem of some black man or black woman. it is  the problem of some hispanic. it is your problem and it is mine. to say that the justice department of the united states can enforce the constitution of the united states. to say that the courts of the united states canr enforce the constitution of the united statesthink about it. that is the point where we are. hing that i can say here rings the bell louder than the opposition to the amendment. i can even excuse the u.s. senate voting against that amendment in the heat of an election. i can understand that happening. but. this is june of 1981. we are a yearandahalf away from an election. the "pressure" is off. if we do  stand up . when in gods name do we stand up. it is  going to become easier. either in terms of the sulistance or in terms of the timing. as we move closer to 1982. it is going to get tougher. you k just as well as i do it is far harder to retake ground than  to give it up at all. i would hope that somewhere along the line somebody will start to speak out loud and clear or outside the floor. in the media. among their constituency. what have you. incidentally. i brought with me today a copy of "a connecticut yankee in king arthurs court" by mark twain which i plan to read shortly. i k that some of you find it difficult to listen to me and i find it difficult to listen to me. but at least if we are going to do our thing. let us do it with some thoughts better than i can express them. mark twain can certainly do that on all the issues we have been talking about here. and more to boot. it has  been 4 hours today. i understand from the republican leadership that we are going to be made to go aher 4 hours. that is fine. i do  exactly k what the pressure is. it would seem to me that we best sit down and think about these matters. but. apparently. the rushwhatever the rush isis of such a nature that the majority leader is bound and determined to go ahead and force the issue in a physical if  a mental sense. well. we will try to handle that as best we can. i would like to read from the testimony of lawrence tribe. professor of law at harvard university. in his testimony before the subcommittee on courts. civil liberties. and the administration of justice in the house judiciary committee.  and members of the subcommittee: i am hoed to appear at the subcommittees invitation to testify concerning the constitutional limits on congress authority to curtail the jurisdiction of federal courts to enforce constitutional rights. in this statement. i will set forth the general framework of principles governing the constitutionality of such measures. and will attempt to apply that framework to the sixteen bills which are pending before the subcommittee and which illustrate quite well the range of issues presented.
