. i rise in favor of the amendment offered by my colleague. from new york which would provide $20 million out of the $4.986.864.150 appropriation which would be allocated to nasa under h.r. 14324. for the purpose of finding a solution to the problem of aircraft se. with the following comments: according to the first four conclusions of the report of the committee on science and astronautics. house report  2229. october 13. 1960: 1. a great deal of se research is underway in the government. but there appears to be a lack of common orientation except in the armed services through the armed forcesnational research council committee on hearing and bioacoustlcs--chaba. 2. although nasa and faa are participating members of chaba. they have  in the past. taken full advantage of this outstanding committee to assist them in orienting their respective programs. 3. the nasa se research program has been levelbudgeted for the past several years and. according to testimony before this committee. will continue as a level effort. although se problems are more accute than ever before. nasa appears to have reoriented its se research program toward investigating the se problem of manned space flight. the sonic boom phee and the supersonic transport at the expense of solving todays aircraft and rocket se problems. 4. more research and development effort is necessary and additional research tools are needed. before a set of se criteria can be drafted. around which industry can design aeronautical and space flight vehicles. i am informed that the current amount requested by nasa for the present programfiscal 1967--of jet aircraft in the field of aeronautical research is $33 million. of this $33 million. $3 million has been allocated for se research. this $3 million figure is further divided in two parts: $1.5 million to be used in research concerned with the sonic boom. the other $1.5 million has been directed to aircraft engine and compressor se research. the committee on science and astronautics has recommended aher $2 million be forthcoming this year to deal with aeronautical research. which would include air dynamics. vertical short takeoffs and landings. and other aeronautical research. the committee has suggested in its 1960 report a system approach. included are: first. better aircraft missile and rocket design. second. better engine design. third. better airport planning. fourth. new approach to zoning around airports. fifth. revised air traffic procedures. sixth. public education. the committee was careful to point out that all the avenues listed above must be approached using a set of agreed upon criteria or standards. i fully support an appropriation to study aircraft se. on april 21. 1963. i introduced h.r. 14602 which would provide a comprehensive program for the control of all se. my bill would specifically provide that an office of se control gather existing data from all other agencies to be used in research concerning the effects of all se. my statement. h.r. 14602. and related studies appear in the congressional record of april 21. 1966. at pages 87458768. supporting material and additional statement appears in the congressional record of may 2. 1966. at pages 94709477. it is my firm belief however. that the able research and admirable work  being carried on by faa. nasa. and chaba should be centralized to insure greater efficiency and more benefit to all those interested in the general field of se abatement. what is needed is a comprehensive program in dealing with the complex problem of se abatement. we can longer afford to go off in several different directions in our effort to reduce excessive se. presently. faa is primarily concerned with se research from the perspective of where and how the planes fly. nasa is primarily concerned with the mechanical generation of se. with respect to aircraft se abatement. what we all must be primarily concerned with is developing a central unit of "se information clearinghouse" where the efforts of all the present agencies working in the field of jet aircraft se abatement can be combined and coordinated. one way to accomplish this. as suggested in my bill h.r. 14602. under title ii. would be to provide an aircraft se and pollution control service which could supply the centralization needed at least for aircraft se studies. moreover. it could be helpful in formulating and disseminating a comprehensive body of kledge in the field of aircraft se abatement and could establish the much needed se criteria standards. finally we must be careful  to merely appropriate a blanket amount to be used for jet aircraft se abatement. just in the field of aircraft se alone we are beginning to realize the need for other abatement studies. for example excessive helicopter se. experience has shown us that we need a comprehensive plan or program with specific requirements in order to adequately deal with the complex task of se control and at the same time insure that money will  be wasted as a result of later duplications in effort.
the only problem with the program i suggest has arisen  on the merits of the case. but on its cost. funds for the ship were  included in the original budget request. and there is an understandable reluctance to increase expenditures in view of the tight budgetary restrictions under which our government is presently operating. but in this instance we are dealing with pennies in terms of the appropriations bill as a whole. the initial cost of the installation and staffing of the weather ship would run more than $1.8 million. the annual recurring expenditure would range between $500.000 and $600.000. such a sum is small indeed when measured against the good that this appropriation would do. the protection of property it would give. and above all the lives it would save. i suggest that in these terms an appropriation for this purpose. this year. is consistent with the true ecoy which we all seek. as further evidence in support of my argument. i submit an editorial entitled "false ecoy." broadcast over radio station wbz. boston. mass.. on march 4 and 5. 1969. an editorial entitled "the forecasting gap." published in the boston herald in march 1969. and an editorial entitled "s disaster inquest." published in the new york times of february 13. 1969. and ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill entitled the navigational safety radio act of this measure is designed to help to assure that ships using americas increasingly crowded waterways operate with greater safety. my bill would seek to accomplish this by requiring most commercial shipping to make more widespread use of bridgetobridge radio communications while operating in the navigable waters of the united states. the provisions of my bill are keyed to making this requirement applicable to large vesselsthose which. in a collision. can cause heavy loss of life and get property damage. my bill would apply to selfpropelled passenger ships of 100 or more gross tons--a vessels enclosed space expressed in cubic feetto other motorized vessels of 300 or more gross tons and to special purpose craft. such as dredges. when their operations might be a hindrance to regular shipping traffic. the tonnage standards would exempt most tugs. barges and pleasure craft. according to maritime experts. while they would apply to every ship of significant size. there is a division of opinion in shipping circles whether even the heavier barges. or strings of barges. should be required to use the bridge radio telephone system. i will  attempt to settle that issue here. this is a question that should be explored in committee hearings. the language of the bill does  cover foreignflag vessels. as such. but since u.s. navigation laws apply to all vessels of whatever flag when they are in u.s. waters. the effect would be to require that foreign vessels also carry bridgetobridge radiotelephones. at present the master or pilot of a vessel can use two different methods for avoiding collision. these are radar. which tells him only the location of an oncoming ship. or the marine rules of the road. a mandatory system by which two approaching vessels determine which one has the rightofway. the chief feature of the rules of the road. prescribed whistle signals. has often been criticized. seamen complain. for example. that on a windy day. or when there is conflicting se from other ships. or from onshore. the sound of the whistles may  be clear. although some deck officers remedy this by watching for puffs of steam that follow the whistles. even this source of information is being cut off as diesel engine vessels are put into service. the whistles on diesels do  emit steam. the major drawback of both radar and the rules of the road. i am told. is that they tell so little about the intentions of approaching skippers. intentions which. if carried out. could put two vessels on a collision course. last year two tankers collided at the lower entrance to newark bay. in new york harbor. killing 33 seamen. commenting on the moments preceding the crash. when the rules of the road were in effect. the newark. n.j.. news said in a july 10 story: from their testimony during the (coast guard) inquiry. the pilots and deck officers of the two vessels revealed their confusion concerning the intentions of each others ships in a close crossing situation. although the coast guard is still to establish the blame for the accident. some experienced seamen believe the collision might have been averted had the bridges of both ships been in radio communication with each other. in the case of the liners stockholm and andrea doria. which collided in 1956 with a loss of 50 lives. maritime experts feel strongly that the crash could have been prevented by the use of bridgetobridge radio telephone. in contrast to the inflexibility of the rules of the road and radar. bridgetobridge radio is highly flexible. it can put two skippers into instantaneous. even continuous. touch for the exchange of essential information until their vessels have safely passed each other. bridgetobridge radio. at present. is mandatory only on the great lakes. it is used to a varying degree elsewhere. including port philadelphia. new york harbor. and san francisco. but only on a voluntary basis. despite this. the coast guard has ed that since the system was instituted in port philadelphia. "there has been a dramatic reduction in collision frequency." in light of apparently successful experience with bridge radio telephones. it would be sensible. i believe. to make much greater use of them than is presently the case. from a cost standpoint there should be great difficulty in doing this. i understand that the portable radio that would be used costs about $700. a small egh sum to pay for the protection of human life and multimilliondollar ships. further. the federal communications commission has set aside a special radio frequency. kn as channel 13. primarily to handle exchanges of navigational information between ships and for use in maritime emergencies. since transmissions on this frequency typically are of short duration. its flexibility should  be impaired by greater use. last july. adm. charles p. murphy. chief of the coast guards office of merchant marine safety. was quoted by the new york times as saying: we believe it (bridgetobridge radio) has to be a mandatory system. this is the intent of my bill. and i urge that it be enacted in this session of congress.
. in a recent television interview. airline pilot capt. *as included in the u.s. munitions list. a part of the international traffic in arms regulations (itar). tom ashwood. an expert on security and skyjacking. estimated that hundreds of airports around the world lack proper security precautions. as part of the continuing effort to combat international terrorism. senator ribicoff tuesday introduced the omnibus antiterrorism act of 1977. s. 2236. legislation to use diplomatic initiatives and strong sanctions to encourage international cooperation to combat terrorist acts such as aircraft hijackings. i am a cosponsor of the bill. on october 26. 1977. the bill and the issue of international terrorism were discussed on macneillehrer report. a public broadcasting system interview program. captain ashwood. who made his comments on airport security during the interview. appeared on the program which discussed the new legislation. the attitudes at the united nations. and the recent rescue of a hijacked german airliner. in the television interview. there was a discussion of the reluctance of some nations to condemn terrorism. this is part of the theory that "one mans terrorist is aher mans freedom fighter." as far as the senator from new jersey is concerned. this is justification for allowing terrorists to make inent men. women. and children victims of their causes through such means as aircraft hijacking. some of the recent incidents. such as the killing of the pilot of the west german airliner. indicate that the terrorists are  "freedom fighters." they are demented. i ask unanimous consent that the transcript be placed in the record.
. i make this statement on behalf of my colleague and myself. on monday next the republican national committee will meet at des moines. iowa. to decide on a site for the republican national convention of 1960. in view of the fact that the republican and democratic national conventions are  considered to be an essential part of the government machinery of the united states. on behalf of the city of new york we are extending to the republican and democratic parties invitations to hold their 1960 national conventions there. new york city has unexcelled facilities for a national political convention. it has the finest hotel accommodations in the world. it has the most modern. and the most spacious meeting halls the country can offer. it is speedily and easily reached from all parts of the country. it has been intimately connected with the political development of our nation from the time when it was the nations first capital. as one of the most populous states in the nation. with active. informed and articulate voters. it has given many outstanding men and women to the service of our nation. yet new york city has never been host to a republican national convention. and  since 1924 have the democrats met there. in midtown manhattan are the finest air conditioned hotels in the world. 20.000 restaurants to suit every taste and pocketbook. 32 broadcasting studios and the entertainment center of the hemisphere. in the same area are found madison square garden. and also the newly erected $35 million new york coliseum. all air conditioned. in this area are the centers of the countrys communications and publishing networks. new york city. as the headquarters of the united nations. is a world capital as well. let me outline briefly for myself and my colleague what i believe are the salient points in new yorks favor. first. as we all k. a national political convention is of necessity an exhausting time for everyone connected with it. if the parties convene in new york city in 1960. the participants will have the extremely important advantage of being able to consolidate all their activities in a relatively small area of midtown manhattan. this will practically eliminate timeconsuming travel between hotels. convention hall. headquarters suites and radio and television studios which would confront us in any other city. madison square garden. which can seat 18.000 delegates and offers an additional 85.000 square feet of space for press. radio. and television. is in the very heart of manhattan. as is the new new york coliseum. within walking distance of the garden are most of the seven hotels which are being offered as headquarters. either one can be reached from any part of the city by subway or bus. for only 15 cents. cabs. too. are cheaper than in any other city. 25 cents for the first onefifth mile and 5 cents for each onefifth mile after that. there are additional charges for extra passengers. the second point of great importance. since the conventions will be held in the summer. is that new york is an air conditioned city. thirty thousand hotel rooms available to delegates are air conditioned. madison square garden is air conditioned. all public meeting space in hotels is air conditioned. restaurants. theaters. movies. museumsin fact. just about any place one would go in new york city in the summerare comfortably cool. third. new york is the undisputed center of our countrys great communications industry. ncws is disseminated faster in new york than in any other city. a political convention is a newsmaking event of the first magnitude. and should the conventions be held in new york city. i am convinced that their activities would receive more comprehensive news coverage than ever before. new york is the home of the major television and radio networks and the important wire services and syndicates. it is the headquarters of book and magazine publishing in the united states. its seven daily newspapers are read by more than 5 million people a day. thousands more read the specialized business publications such as the wall street journal. our trade papers. and the nearly 50 foreign language papers published in new york city. here are molded national opinion and thinking on a myriad of issues. fourth. new york city is one of the easiest cities to reach from any part of the country. it is served by all major airlines. railroads. buslines. it is the focal point of a network of superb highways and throughways. by 1960. with jetplane travel a reality. new york will be just 41/2 hours from the west coast. fifth. new york city offers the countrys finest hotels. restaurants. and theaters. many of the worlds greatest museums. and outstanding sightseeing attractions. although we k that delegates to a national political convention will have relatively little time to spend on amusements. it is. nevertheless. important to point out that conventions usually have a higher attendance when they are held in new york because delegates realize that whatever free time they do have can be profitably and entertainingly spent seeing the wonders of one of the worlds great cities. and. incidentally. new york. the worlds financial and commercial center. offers opportunities for delegates to make personally profitable their attendance at the national conventions by taking care of any business they have in new york city. more than 750 convention groups a year attest to the fact that a new york city convention is a successful convention. it is my sincere hope. speaking as a new yorker. that my city will be hoed by being chosen as the site of the 1960 republican and democratic national conventions. senator keating and i bespeak. i feel certain. the wishes of the some 20 million americans who live in the citys metropolitan area. an area which includes also part of connecticut and new jersey. new york city is in the midst of the nations population heartland. it is a world capital. it is the cultural and communications center of the nation. it is the biggest city. it will welcome the national conventions in 1960.
i thank my colleague for his remarks. . my understanding of the position to which the soviet union adheres in the berlin situation. it is. so far as i am aware. unchanged as is ours. except in time schedule. since it was first annced in ember 1958. the fact that both sides have remained where they are is very important. because the soviet union in its communication of ember 27. 1958. anncd its unilateral policy on berlin. and said exactly what it proposed to do. and it still says so. we all agree on that point. in that ember 1958 communication it charged that the governments of the three powersthe united states. united kingdom. and franceare seeking to keep in force the longsince obsolete parts of the wartime agreement which governed the occupation of germany and which entitled them in the past to stay in berlin. in short. the soviet union was affirming that eastwest german negotiations on berlin could be and would be interpreted as our acceptance. implied but clear. that we join in the denunciation of the wartime agreement. by which we are in berlin . second. by way of showing what the soviet union  considers to be a free citybecause the free city concept was something that they themselves proposed as to west berlinthe soviet proposal of ember 27. 1958. said that if a free city is set up in west berlin as was then proposed. itthe u.s.s.r.-will do its utmost to promote the attainment of these aimsecoic viability for west berlin especially by placing orders for such an amount of manufactured goods as would fully insure the stability and prosperity of the ecoy of the free city and also by regular systematic supplies to west berlin of the necessary raw material and foodstuffs on a commercial basis. considering the history of the u.s.s.r. and its operation in the captive nations of eastern europe and elsewhere. can anyone doubt for a minute that this is serving ice that the u.s.s.r. will impose promptly through its puppet communist german democratic republic. which surrounds berlin. an ecoic control in which is inherent the power of ecoic strangulation. indeed. the ecoic relationship between west berlin and west germany is critical to west berlins survival. hence. communist ecoic control would mean the end of west berlin as far as the free world is concerned. just as it has meant the end of east berlin up to .  is the effect on the communist satellite nations in central europe of .our negotiating to make berlin a free city to be underestimated. soviet propaganda strives constantly to convince the peoples in these captive nations that the west is preparing to accept the political status quo in central europe as permanent. the soviet ks its vulnerability in these nations and seeks to develop in them a spirit of hopelessness leading to passivity and resignation. it. seeks to convince these peoples that the communists can bring about major political concessions from the free world without danger of war to the u.s.s.r. negotiations for a free city of berlin would fortify this thesis for the communists in the captive nations. the very implication of the term "free city" in its historic and legal application embodies  the freedom of its people but its historic and legal reliance for security on the respect of its status by it neighbors. are we willing to accept that soviet guarantee. i have heard it freely predicted by people who had escaped from germany in connection with hitlers activity thereand quite properlythat if we accept this proposal for a free city of berlin. all of berlin would be communist within 6 monthsand germany would remain forever divided. let us consider aher example from history. a number have been given. danzig. declared a "free city" by the treaty of versailles. is  an untypical analogy. the nazis won "elections" there by terror supported from withoutwithstanding a league of nations guarantee as to the free city status of danzig. in 4 years opposition was snuffed out and in 6 years the nazis had danzig. and danzig was outside of the nazis reich. unlike berlin. which is within the confines of the soviet empire. the question has been raised that our position can be inflexible. it is  true that our position is inflexible. for example. western forces have been reduced and have been kept reduced. and obviously represent threat to east berlin or the east german communist regime. the u.s.s.r. complains about the activity of radio berlin which broadcasts into east germany. certainly should the united states and its allies be given assurances that pressure on berlin will be relaxed. this is a matter which could be negotiated. so. too. on the question of whether there should be sessions of the german bundestag in west berlin. in fact. i e that a proposed session of the german bundesrat. the upper house of their legislature. has actually been called off for west berlin. perhaps the clearest indication of how the west would be pushed out of berlin if the communists had their way was given by east german leader walter ulbricht on june 15. when he openly demanded liquidation of refugee camps in west berlin. and also hinted that new air safety rules which would cripple airline operations in and out of the city would be applied to templehof airport. in essence. what the senator from montana has offered us again is a quick onepackage solution. because we are perhaps just tired of the impasseor perhaps afraid of it. it is my deep conviction that we are neither tired of the impasse  afraid of itthat we dare  be tired or afraidand that the alternative will so seriously un-
 that is the situation as we find it. etheless. as yet we have real result. as recently as may 29. according to radio cairo itself. the arab league boycott offices were warning airplane and shipping companies against serving israel. and were placing severe restrictions on american merchant marine activity. for breaking "rules" made in pursuance of a boycott completely illegal under international law. penalties which would include depriving ships of the opportunity to load or discharge cargo or to take on water or other provisions were threatened. to this very moment. cargoes destined for israel. in foreign bottoms and even in american bottoms. are still  permitted through the suez canal and are liable to confiscation. a great many senators feel very keenly on this subject. all who have joined in the amendment were happy to put their names on an amendment of a very strong character which would have firmed up very materially the declaration of policy  contained in section 102. the amendment which i submitted for the record was actually put in the foreign assistance bill. the very bill before the senate. by the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives. i ask that that amendment be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. the central issue in "schoolbusing" should really  be desperation--only a relatively lesser percentage are involved in transportation. the central issue. rather. should be schoolbus safety. involving almost 20 million of our children who each day travel in some 285.000 buses to and from school. in 1971. the most recent data available indicate that there were 47.000 schoolbus accidents. killing 150 and injuring 5.600. while this record is considered superior to the automobile safety record. the fact remains that it is still much too high. the safety and well being of our children merit every action that can be undertaken. radio station wins in new york from time to time broadcasts editorials on issues of public interest. a recent editorial broadcast underscores the importance of effective action for schoolbus safety and i commend it to the senate. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
