naturally. i respect the dignity and authority of the judiciary committee of the other body and make this statement quite apart from the questions involved in the subpena itself. but only as those reading a report of the house judiciary committees action. relating as it does to three distinguished new yorkers. might take it out of context and read into it some reflection upon them personally. this would be most unfortunate and unwarranted. whatever may be the outcome of the legal and constitutional issues involved in the subpena and the response to it of  of the american red cross war fund. a director of the metropolitan opera and of the american museum of natural history. mr. colts career includes service in the u.s. army during world war i. when he enlisted as a corporal and rose to the rank of major. for 27 years he was chief executive officer of the bankers trust co. in new york and is presently a director and member of the banks executive committee. the french government hoed him in 1949 by bestowing upon him the order of the legion of hochevalier. new york university conferred the hoary degree of doctor of commercial science on mr. colt in 1950 and colgate university conferred the hoary degree of doctor of laws upon him in 1946. mr. tobin has been in public service for 33 years. rising from the position of law clerk in the port authority law department in 1927 to his present position of executive director. which he has held since 1942. he has been port consultant to the royal government of thailand. is presently a member of the advisory council of the department of politics of princeton university. and just recently returned from israel. where. on behalf of the world bank. he reviewed and evaluated israels plan for organizing and effectuating a gigantic port development program. in 1957 adelphi university conferred the hoary degree of doctor of laws on mr. tobin and the french government also in 1957 bestowed the order of legion of hochevalier. on at least three occasions in recent memory the new york metropolitan press has acclaimed mr. tobins significant contributions to public service. mr. carty has been a member of the port authority staff since 1930. rising from his first position as paymaster to personnel director in 1934 and to this present position of secretary in 1946. mr. carty served in the u.s. navy during world war i for a period of 2 years. he has been active in the leadership of the american legion on local. state. and national echelons for the last 40 years. he presently serves by appointment of the incumbent national commander as a member of the legions national legislation commission. he was new jersey state commander in 1944 and he has served on the legions national public relations commission. in 1949 he was appointed by gover driscoll. of new jersey. to a commission to investigate communistic and unamerican teachings and activities in the public schools and universities of the state of new jersey. his other governmental service includes his present membership on the new jersey state veterans service council. which is concerned with the welfare of veterans in the state of new jersey. here are three fine americans who have contributed much in a civic and community sense. against their backgrounds of public service. it is  difficult to understand that they complied with the instructions of their govers. withstanding that the course of obedience presented personal risks in their dealings with the congress. many great americans before them have assumed personal risks in upholding the authority and prerogatives of the government for which they acted. men of the caliber and ability of messrs. colt. tobin. and carty must be convinced that they are acting in the best interests of their public service if they continue to pursue this difficult course. i would hope that this proceeding. or future proceedings like it. will  have the effect of deterring such men from rendering able public service. whether it be in local. state. or national government. should the contempt proceedings go forward. we must keep uppermost in mind the role of these men as defenders of their view. and that of their govers. with respect to proper federalstate relationships. rather than their technical status as defendants in a penal proceeding.
