. i would like to associate myself with the feelings expressed by congressman bonner. the able chairman of the house merchant marine and fisheries committee. upon the occasion of the signing of a contract between the maritime administration and the lykes bros. steamship co.. inc.. for the replacement of 53 ships. it has been a proud 6 months that i. as a freshman congressman. have served as a member of this committee in the 85th congress. it has been especially important to me because of the makeup of my district with its waterfront problems. it has been a happy experience to see the way the committee has worked so diligently as a group and i consider it a great privilege. indeed. to share in the happiness and satisfaction that comes to us today from this shipbuilding and ship operating contract which is so vital to a large segment of our ecoy.
. in recent months there have been many proposals to establish a federal department of urban affairs. with full cabinet status. it is my thinking that before such a step is taken. it would be wise to establish in this house a select committee on urban affairs. which would investigate and report to the congress on the numerous problems confronting our modern municipalities. and the proper role of the federal government in meeting these problems. this is my proposaland i yesterday filed a resolution calling for the creation of a select house committee on urban affairs. the number of congressional committees  charged with responsibility for legislative action on affairs concerned with urban living are as numerous and uncoordinated as the bureaus and agencies which administer federal assistance to local areas. my suggestion should  be construed as a criticism of the operations or accomplishments of any of these committees. it is rather an attempt to find a more efficient method of recognizing and serving urban needs. in the last quarter of a century. techogical. ecoic. and social forces have completely altered the pattern of american living. sparsely populated rural areas and small towns longer dominate the american scene. instead there exists an overwhelming trend toward urbanization. we have all heard the demographers predictions of expansion of our population and of the concentration of the major portion of this growth in urban areas. it might be well to recount these basic population findings and predictions. first. between 1940 and 1960. u.s. population increased by an astounding 48 million. according to dr. hansen of the university of chicago. a recognized population authority. an additional 80 million persons probably will be added in the 20 years from 1960 to 1980. making us a nation of 260 million people by 1980. second. in 1960. 108 million people. or approximately 60 percent of the countrys population. lived in metropolitan areas. it is predicted that by 1970. 70 percent will be living in urban communitiesor some 140 million people. third. of the 140 million expected to be residing in urban areas in 1970. 82 million will be located in the suburbs. the impact of this tremendous concentration of people in urban places has been given slight recognition until the last few years. too few steps have been taken to accommodate and guide these forces. the history of the worlds civilization contains many examples of laxity in finding solutions for new problems. the story of mass production and the era of the automobile in this country will surely present a glaring example to future historians of the consequences of our delay in meeting the challenge of urbanization. our cities have been sorely unprepared for increased population and the development of their surrounding areas has in some instances been chaotic. if we are to be able to make our cities rewarding places in which to live. work. and play. if we are to preserve some of the natural beauty of our rich countryside. if we are to contribute to the social and cultural advancement of all our people. and if we are going to maintain a steady rate of ecoic growth. then we must accept the need for fully coordinated programs of renewal. redevelopment. ecoic development. transportation. and the many other areas which are vital to the urban areas. it will be necessary  only to correct past mistakesbut to erase deterioration. we must preserve desirable urban areas for the citizens of the future. currently. the rate of renewal in many urban areas is running far behind the rate of obsolescence. the need for assistance to urban areas is a national problem. it is. therefore. i suggest. the responsibility of the congress. with the cooperation of the states and local communities. to launch a coordinated search for the right solution. the federal government can efficiently assist these communities if its approach lacks focus. the select committee on urban affairs. which i yesterday proposed. would investigate the broad spectrum of problems which face our metropolitan areas and report to the house such recommendations as it may deem advisable. the resolution which i have introduced would require a specific recommendation with respect to the advisability of the establishment of a standing house committee with jurisdiction over urban affairs. i am convinced that a select committee. working with other congressional committees. with the states and their political subdivisions. could do much to stimulate orderly and progressive metropolitan development. both industrial and residential. and could provide a framework within which many of the difficult and agonizing problems facing our cities could be solved. we may find that the creation of a congressional committee for urban affairs is an essential forerunner of a department of urban affairs. since many jurisdictional and administrative problems must be resolved before a federal agency can be created. again. it is possible that we may discover that a standing congressional committee could. alone. effectively achieve the necessary coordination of federal programs. i am aware that the creation of this committee will  be a simple task. considerable study must be given to such a proposal. it is my conviction. however. that immediate consideration should be given to this proposal so that the states. the regional organizations and the local communities can voice their opinions at the same time that we consider any proposals for a department of urban affairs. in this way we may be able to achieve the true coordination of national programs affecting local ecoic growth.
 kennedy said last month at san jos. we are building a wall of men determined to protect their own freedom and sovereignty. this wall is being created through the alliance for progress. thus. the security of the hemisphere is being strengthened through the collective determination of the american republics acting in concert through the oas. the road ahead is difficult. there are shortcuts. but thus it has always been. in 1861. the independence of the dominican republic was forfeited and spanish colonial rule reintroduced. four years elapsed before freedom was restored. some day cuba shall be free again. on this pan american day let us pledge ourselves to that end. and let us rededicate ourselves to the ideals of the hemisphere so that its security can be achieved through the collective determination of our governments. and so that an ever richer and freer life for all our peoples can be secured for ourselves and future generations.
. i am today introducing a bill which can insure that the new england area will continue to receive adequate air service. i k i do  have to tell any members of this body how important adequate transportation by air. rail. and road is to the wellbeing of any section of our nation. just as air transportation is vitally related to the wellbeing of the new england ecoy. the ability of airlines to compete in the profitable air transportation markets is vitally related to their ability to provide local service. this measure would eliminate the possibility that one aspect of a carriers service could be cut off. and its ability to provide other service impaired or destroyed. the bill would require the civil aeronautics board to grant certificates of unlimited duration to a carrier which can show first. that it is the holder of a certificate or certificates of public convenience or necessity originally issued pursuant to the authority contained in the civil aeronautics act of 1938. second. that it has operated. for a period of at least 6 years. carrier service under a temporary certificate of public convenience and necessity. and third. that it has rendered adequate and efficient service thereunder. it is only equitable that a carrier which renders capable service for so long a period  be subject to the constant threat that its temporary certificates will be revoked. i want to commend my distinguished colleague from massachusetts for his leadership in preparing this legislation. he has attacked the serious and complex problem facing new england with intelligence and diligence. i am proud to join with him today in introducing this legislation. and i hope that it will receive the prompt. sympathetic. and favorable consideration of the house.
 on the airline subsidy reduction program. the requirements include a capacity of 24 persons and 1.000 pounds of cargo. a 500mile stop range. a cruising speed of 300 miles per hour and an approach speed of 60 miles per hour. the board concluded that the development of this type of aircraft would require from 3 to 5 years. at present u.s. manufacturer has such a plane either under production or even on the drawing board. although france has produced a plane that meets most of the specifications. the d 262 is presently undergoing testing and has received some trials on commercial routes within france. it seems clear that some kind of government encouragement is going to be necessary to get an american plane out of the realm of discussion and into the air. i am therefore proposing legislation today declaring that it is the policy of congress to promote the development of improved local service aircraft by providing for temporary federal assistance for its development. operation and testing. under this measure. the administrator of the federal aviation agency would be authorized to prepare characteristics and specifications of the aircraft to be developed. provide by contract for its development and testing and consult with other government agencies. aviation manufacturers. the air transport industry and representatives of labor groups. precedent for such a program can be found in public law 867. adopted in 1950. that measure provided for a 5year program to promote the development of improved transport aircraft of the turbinepowered variety. a great many advances in the state of our techogy have taken place in the last decade. for one reason or aher. it has  been commercially feasible to develop a local service aircraft.. but the need for such equipment is increasing. a temporary federal program to assist in the development and testing of an ecoical. shorthaul. low capacity vehicle will pay tremendous dividends by facilitating the local air service that is becoming more and more important to the health of our ecoy.
. on september 5. 1963. i introduced legislation that would authorize the federal aviation agency to develop a program for the development. testing and promotion of a new local service shorthaul aircraft. it seems hard to believe but we are still using the dc3 for this type of service. an aircraft which dates back 27 years according to the civil aeronautics board. because domestic air carriers have lacked efficient. ecoical air carriers of an appropriate size to meet the need for service between intermediate cities. schedules have been reduced and service abandoned altogether in some areas. in october of 1963 the federal aviation agency annced a proposed development program. a "limited design competition to produce detailed specifications and cost data for a practical shorthaul transport." however. when eight producers introduced such specifications. the faa rejected them all and put the project "on ice." but the problem of adequate air service can be permitted to lie dormant in this manner. at the very time when the administration is pushing programs of regional ecoic development. it is  encouraging the kind of techogical advance that will make such regional cooperation possible. because of the failure of the faa program to meet the need to date. i am again introducing this legislation and i hope that it will receive prompt hearing and approval.
i rise to associate my. self with the gentlemans remarks. i am proud to associate myself witt the gentlemans remark in commendation of the presidents speech this morning. i was particularly pleased by tht presidents reference for expanding efforts in the rural areas of latin america the people in these sections of the hemispheric republics can be permitted tc fall further behind in the quest for development. more and more the people of latin america must be encouraged to participateat all levels and at all stages of their development. this is the promise of democracy. of bolivar and thomas jefferson. to which the president referred so eloquently today. the alliance for progress is a le concept. it had its germ in the administration of president eisenhower when the interamerican development bank was authorized and funded and a development program conceived out of the wreckage of the chilean earthquake in 1960. it was given an imaginative expression and execution by president kennedy. and it is receiving commitment. encouragement and support from president johnson. we have made important strides in the past 4 years.  only in the building of roads and schools. the development of industries and the creation of new jobs. but in the development of a greater understanding between the peoples of the hemisphere. but i agree with the president entirely when he says: if we have made more progress than before. we have made far less than we must.
. yesterday the distinguished gover of the commonwealth of massachusetts. john a. volpe. appeared before a special hearing conducted jointly by the public works committees of the house and senate to outline his position on recent cutbacks in federal highway funds. the gover spoke  only for massachusetts. but in his capacity as vice chairman of the federalstate relations committee of the national govers conference. his statement is a trenchant analysis of the impact of the reduction in highway funds and i wish to call it to the attention of all of my colleagues by including it in the record:
 nixons report on his trip to africa in 1957 he said: the understanding of the principles for which we stand as a nation is a tremendous asset to us in this area. the maintenance of (our) . . . prestige . . . will depend upon whether the people of the continent continue to understand our dedication to the principles of independence (and) equality . . . to which they are so deeply devoted. i certainly agree that progress to eliminate discrimination in the united states is vital to our good relations with africa. just as important. however. is that the need to demonstrate the sincerity of the principles we espouse extends beyond our efforts at home. we must also oppose discrimination in africa itself. and a reexamination of permit to south african airways would be an important step in this direction. section 402(b) of the federal aviation act requires that a permit be granted if "such transportation will be in the public interest." as i have suggested. there is considerable doubt that the south african airway route is truly in the public interest. although the law requires furthermore. a public hearing when a permit such as that granted to south african airways is under consideration. the general public learned of this action only after it had been completed. the public has. i feel. a direct stake in the basic issues involved in the granting of this permit and should be afforded every opportunity to give full and careful consideration to the case and to make itself heard.
first. let me correct any impression that p6ople may have that i am an academic student. i have spent most of my life in hardware. industrial and government. i got introduced to this pollution business during the johnson administration. when i was asked to head up the group with some 75 people with the executive branch of the government to look at the air pollution problem. we had a very good group. we had representatives from the three auto companies. associated with us. and this was an unpaid kind of public service activity for both industrial and academic people. most of my experience comes from that. i have been associated with two small companies. and aher with a radical approach to battery problems. there were some remarks here which tended to oversimplify whose to blame in this business. we. as citizens. are to blame. the smoking problem is  the auto problem. i dont care. . particularly. whether you or someone else smokes. thats up to you. i dont happen to smoke cigarettes. by choice. but the auto is a little bit different. the average citizen doesnt worry about whether his. car pollutes. he worries about whether the other fellows car pollutes. i think congress is to blame. we have been sittlng around here discussing the space program. for example. and yet who has had the guts to stand up and recognize the great disparity. and our ability to allocate resources in this great country. dont think there is any fallout from the space program that is going to help solve this problem. that is  true. i think we are all to blame. we. the citizens. are the blame. and i am delighted the young people are going to be involved in this. since the report i finished in 67. we reported to senator muskie and others.  much has happened. general motors today inaccurately mentioned the city of dallas working on steam buses. and that is  true. i was in dallas yesterday. the company was originally involved in a program and abandoned a particular approach six months ago. you hear a lot of things in newspapers about action. i think we should concern ourselves with  only reallocation of some of the resources on the federal level. who are  subscribing to mr. naders comments on the federal government. i think we also should address ourselves to the organization in the executive branch. there is confusion in the department as to who has sole responsibility. there is somewhat confusion. at the moment. we dont have. for example. an executive secretary in the department of transportation. the people there are very competent people. but they are overworked. we dont have the technical talent. the right talent to look at this in washington. with respect to the auto industry. it is a funny business. and i want to say at the outset that i dont think you can lump all the auto companies into the same category. my experience is that there is a considerable difference in management attitudes and technical ideas between some of them. they are in the business to make money. and i applaud that. on the other hand. it is a highly competitive business. in spite of the relatively high profits that some of them make. they have . i will admit. got on to the pollution problem as early as they should have. i do  k of any piece of material that is available today that was  available 15 years ago. i dont understand the members of general motors  to pick on them. they mentioned 40 million dollars a year as i heard it. and 1100 people. and that comes out to 40.000 dollars per man. i can only conceive that that also includes their technicians in which case this means they have 3300 people. if you take the national average of r and d in this country. that is a lot of people working on merely antipollution devices. i am amazed. i think one of the things that we have to recognize of the auto industry. and this is true of other industries. is general inative ideas come from outside the industry. this isnt just the auto industry. the business machine business did  develop xerox. kodak has developed very few tela processes. this is the way the country goes. inative ideas tend to come from outside the establishment. ford motor company has gone outside the organization to work with small companies. and i applaud this. i dont think in general the auto industry does research the way other companies do. they do things for effect. in many cases. their approach is quite different than the chemical industry or the electronics industry. it is inconceivable to me. for example. how a company. for example. can build liquid oxygen. towing the liquid oxygen with a 1700 pound van on it. and a sign that says "dont smoke" on it. this is a poor way to do research. i dont think i would spend much of my money on a battery system. that ran on 1200 degreescongressman farbstein. who did that research.
general motors. this makes a pretty good rocket. to do that on a small scale is good. but to rush into demonstrating this kind of animal is  the way the chemical research industry does things. i dont think we should be confused by the dollars of the 40 million mentioned. i think to be specific about techogy. i think i would agree with general motors. that we are  going to have a steam automobile right away. on the other hand. if you take the costs. the cost. and you asked for this data. the cost of a low emitting engine is going to go up. if you project a steam car. for example. against the current status of the ic engine. it will be far more competitive than general motors will admit. and their is new techogycongressman farestein. excuse me. you say the steam engine will be more competitive than general motors will admit insofar as the internal combustion engine.
i cant speak for the auto industry. the question one might ask is if i were running general motors and was certain that alternatives to the ic engine was impossible. how would i spend so much money of stockholders money that isnt a good answer. but it is an answer that one might suggest. detroit is an industry unto itself in the r and d game. you find in new technical enterprises that those people wont work for general motors. who would want to continue to work on a stirling cycle engine for 14 years and  see something happen with them. good people like to be associated with success. they like to be. and i want to say for the record that the young people today are the greatest group i have seen in our life. they dont want to work for general motors. they want to be where something is happening. they want to see results for their activities. congressman farstein. you are suggesting that the purpose of the research of the automobile companies is to discourage the finding of an alternative engine to the internal combustion engine. and even to attain an engine that will free the atmosphere of pollution.
i dont think i am competent to do that. i again want to caution you. dont get fooled with the money gain. spending 40 million dollars a year can be just like putting it down the rathole. if you dont have good inative people. spending 10 million dollars on liquid hydrogens and liquid oxygen on an automobile which you couldnt legally drive through a tunnel is  my idea of wellspent money. congressman farbstein. would you say that any of the companies show any degree of inativeness in connection with this.
i k when i was concerned with getting together a group of people on this study i did some years ago. and they were all very cooperative. they all offered people to serve with us. and they did. and they were very helpful. the president of american motors said there wasnt any reason for his people being on the panel because they werent doing any research. congressman farbstein. dr. ayres. would you tell us your connection with the auto pollution question and give us the benefit of what the auto industry is doing to solve this problem. (dr. robert u. ayres: vice president. international research and techogy corporation. former techogicalenvironmental specialist. resources for the future. member hudson institute. former theoretical physicist.)
. recently the massachusetts state legislature adopted a resolution expressing their concern over the plight of mass transit. it calls for the adoption of legislation by the congress to help meet the burdensome costs of mass transit through the use of the federal highway fund. we are all well aware of the deterioration of our mass transit system. caught in the cycle of increasing costs. rising fares. shrinking revenues. decreasing quality. and declining passengers. virtually all of the remaining privately owned mass transit companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. while those publicly owned continue to operate at greater and greater deficits. today the penn central is bankrupt. new york state owns the long island railroad. and massachusetts has assumed operation of the commuter lines formerly run by the boston and maine. for too long we have relied almost solely on cars and highways. even encouraging this development by making it easy to obtain assistance for highway construction and difficult to obtain assistance for other modes of transportation. the effect of this development on the old. the young. the poor and the handicapped. those hardest hit by deteriorating transit systems. and on our environment. which is being choked by pollution and marred by "ribbons of concrete." can longer be iged. we can sit back and wait for the inevitable crisis to engulf us. transportation systems are too vital a part of continued firban growth. and the need for an efficient and ecoical public transportation system is greater today than ever before. up until . the burden of supporting these services has fallen mainly on state and local governments. and cities. already financially pressed. can longer meet the costs. additional federal assistance is imperative and i hope that we may move forward in meeting the transportation needs of this country before we face a further decline in our public transportation system. i am pleased to bring this recommendation of the general court of massachusetts to the attention of my colleagues:
. i merely want to point out that in the matter of controlor authority. as some prefer to call itthere is one feature in the laborrelations picture which is absolutely vital. there can be responsibility unless there is some control and authority somewhere. by the destruction of such control and authority. the responsibility itself also is destroyed. i think that should be definitely understood in considering the pending amendment. as i pointed out earlier today. this amendment is  the answer to the problem which we confront. the answer must be found. i am satisfied that the answen can be found. i am satisfied that the bill as it  stands provides the vehicle for finding the answer. under those circumstances i see purpose whatever in going along with a provision of this kind. which. as i previously stated. is extremely devious and doubtful.
. once again. the senator is bringing in the local angle. and if i were to do that. i could point out that the new york state federation of labor. i understand. and all of its subordinate units. is on record as opposed to the seaway. as are also the railroad brotherhoods. all of them. in the state of new york. i am trying to keep these things out. they have place in the debate.
. it is difficult to understand by what process the railroads would be expected to have adequate facilities during the summer months for handling the peakload business which would  arrive until midfall and early winter. does the senator propose that all the railroad employees needed in the peak season be kept on during the slack season. which would be the summer. in view of the fact that the canal would be operating at that time.
. to return to the amendment  before the senate. the junior senator from new york would like to make a very brief statement. the new yorknew jersey channel is one of four major channels undergoing improvement in new york harbor. the project was adopted by congress in 1935. it calls for deepening the channel to 35 feet. with 37 feet through rock cuts. and widening the channel from three to four hundred feet to six to eight hundred feet. eight million dollars worth of work remains to be done to complete the authorized project. the house recommendations for channel improvements in the entire new york harbor amount to only $2.200.000 for the coming year. this item is specifically earmarked for the new yorknew jersey channel. approximately half of the amount. however. has already been spent by the army engineers and must be returned to the projects from which funds were diverted for the work. the balance. $1.100.000. will complete the project in the kill van kull between bayonne and staten island. funds will be available for new construction to benefit the heavily industrialized southern section of staten island. 4.s indicated in the testimony of mr. l. w. byrn&. chief of the port promotion bureau of the port of new york authority. before the house committee on appropriations. important industries are located on both sides of the channel. the cities service oil co.. barber asphalt corp.. american smelting & refining co.. shell oil co.. royal petroleum co.. and soconyvacuum oil co. border the channel. they depend on the deepdraft channel entering from raritan bay for the movement of bulk cargoes of petroleum. tar. ores. and other raw materials. the limited widths of the present channel handicap the operations of these industries. new yoik harbor leads all of the major ports of the nation in tonnage handled. customs and duties collected. and in total annual revenue. figures for 1947 show duties and customs collections at the port of new york total $192.000.000 in comparison with $35.000.000 at philadelphia. $13.000.000 at baltimore. $13.000.000 at new orleans. and $7.000.000 at san francisco. new york harbor handled 145.000.000 tons of cargo traffic in 1945. this was three times the traffic tonnage at philadelphia. 51/2 times that at new orleans. and more than 20 times that of the traffic at san francisco. in the same way that new york harbor is the busiest in the nation. the new yorknew jersey channel carries the heaviest traffic in that harbor. in 1945. it handled 45.000.000 tons of traffic. almost onethird of the tonnage for new york harbor as a whole. because of the significance of this channel for our national ecoy. i am urging that at least $1.500.000. additional. be appropriated for that work on the channel which is yet to be undertaken. in the interest of safe navigation and industrial expansion. the authorized plans for the channel should be completed at the earliest possible date. it is gratifying that sufficient funds have been .provided in the army civil functions bill as it  is before the senate to complete the work in the thern section of the channel. until the area near the southern end of staten island has been improved. widened and deepened. however. the industries will  be able to operate at capacity and the utilization value of the harbor will be limited. i. therefore. ask the senate to appropriate a total of $3.500.000 for the new yorknew jersey channel in the new york harbor. that new construction may be undertaken immediately and the channel may in the near future increase its industrial and commercial activity to the benefit of the entire nation. i have sent to the desk an amendment to take care of this allocation.
i can quarrel with the senator on that point. i do  think the post office department should go into the freight business. and i think that something should he done in any legislation of this type to have it so clear that it can be misconstrued. that there can be misunderstandings. and that situations can arise such as those which have been pointed out by my colleague from new york and which i can- well see arising from this bill. thereftore. it is with some hesitancy that i would vote for this bill.
. the house committee on appropriations has recommended a cut in the appropriation for the bureau of customs which may have a most serious effect upon the operations of the port of new york. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks an editorial entitled "too littlebut  too late." which appeared in the march 21 issue of the journal of commerce. and deals with the gravity of the present situation at the port of new york.
. the senior senator from colorado is to be complimented for the alacrity with which he ordered investigators to the scene of the latest air tragedy in the new yorknew jersey metropolitan area. i understand that he dispatched investigators to jamaica early yesterday and that they have already returned with a report for the subcommittee on aviation of the interstate and foreign commerce committee. it would be salutary if the same type of alertness were general in all federal departments where aviation. and especially air safety. are involved. from preliminary reports. it appears that saturdays air tragedy on long island was due to weather conditions and  to a violation of common rules of air safety. however. it seems equally apparent that this newest addition to a toolong list of air tragedies is plain evidence of the dangers of low flying over congested residential areas. residents of the communities in the vicinity of laguardia. idlewild. and other busy airports are worried. even terrified. over the possibility of future air catastrophes. their apprehension is natural and reasonable. however. if the local communities were to enact and enforce aviation regulations of their own. we should face a hodgepodge of conflicting air laws which could hamper seriously the further development of american aviation. already cedarhurst. long island. has passed ordinances which would regulate the height at which airplanes may fly over the community. this is a plain augury of what may be repeated in many other local areas. the possibility of having many air regulations. conflicting and even contradictory. is a real one. if we do  want prolonged litigation over the question of who regulates the airways. there must be a reevaluation of present safety regulations on the federal level. the investigations into recent air crashes must be painstaking and exhaustive. there must be thorough probes into the question of whether any single air safety factor was overlooked in these accidents. and it should be ascertained if the best possible aviation practices were being followed by the flyers. however. it seems clear at this time that there must be tighter and better enforced regulations about low flying everywhere in the country. wherever busy airports are located in or near highly populated areas. we can demand the removal of airports away from the cities to uninhabited or sparsely inhabited areas. lest the functions and conveniences of air travel be lost to air travelers. aviation is here to stay. but in the light of recent tragic events. it appears certain that there is much to be done to bring it up to essential standards of safety.
. the bills which i have just introduced are designed to. first. eliminate the unnecessary intervention of a federal agency in the reorganization of a utility. such as the long island railroad. having little federal importance. but great state importance. second. protect the states from federal administrative attack -upon their fundamental power to tax and their power to regulate utility rates and service. and. third. eliminate from the jurisdiction of the interstate commerce commission the intrastate passenger fares of a railroad such as the .long island railroad which has virtually interstate significance.. the long island railroad is located entirely within the state of new york. it is my understanding that it carries * the greatest volume of commuters of any railroad in the world. ninetynine and eighttenths percent of its passenger traffic is intrastate. while only 25 percent of its freight revenue is interstate. although the long island railroad is of great significance to the national railroad network. it is of the utmost importance to the people of the state of new york. the public service commission. created by the laws of new york state. is fully equipped to deal with the problems of rate regulation and reorganization. in fact. it has been regulating the fares of the long island railroad ever since its organization.
i think i covered that in my earlier remarks. what i have in mind are organizations like the american federation of labor. the congress of industrial organizations. the railroad brotherhoods. and the united mine workers. they are four big national organizations.
. in supporting h. r. 7840. as passed unanimously by the house of representatives. i would ia benefit year extends from july 1 to the following june 30. the base year is the calendar year preceding the beginning of the benefit year. point out that. although the bill goes a long way toward alleviating certain hardships which have developed under the provisions of the present law. the congress should consider. as soon as possible. increased benefits for individuals already retired as well as for the large number of railroad employees receiving less than $300 a month. by the enactment of h. r. 356. which repealed the dual benefit restrictive provision enacted by the 1951 amendments to the railroad retirement act. the congress and the administration have corrected a serious inequity with respect to pensioners eligible to receive both railroad retirement benefits and oldage insurance benefits under the social security act. this bill would correct many other inequities. such as reducing the eligibility age for widows without an eligible child from age 65 to 60. and eliminating the provisions in the present law. which provide that a disability annuity ceases after the annuitant earns more than $75 in each of 6 consecutive calendar months. although the senate committee on labor and public welfare did  have a sufficient opportunity to consider the proposed legislation as thoroughly as was desirable. the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house of representatives did give to h. r. 7840 very thorough consideration. moreover. i understand that the secretary of labor. the chairman. and the labor member of the railroad retirement board favor the enactment of this legislation. although the bill does  go as far as some of us would like it to go. it is a definite step in the right direction. therefore. i urge that the senate pass h. r. 7840. i urge. moreover. that the bill be passed without amendment. because. if it were to be amended at this late hour in the session. such action would almost surely doom it to ultimate defeat.
. on behalf of the senior senator from maryland . the junior senator from new jersey and myself. i introduce for appropriate reference. a bill to provide relief against certain forms of discrimination in interstate transportation. this legislation is designed to assure to all interstate travelers the full and equal enjoyment of accommodations. advantages and privileges of any public conveyances operated by a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce and all the facilities furnished or connected therewith. regardless of race. color. religion. or national origin. although it is assumed that discrimination and segregation on public conveyances operated by common carriers is unlawful. this assumption is based upon a number of recent decisions of the federal courts which. unfortunately. have  dealt explicitly with every phase of this problem. moreover. studies indicate that some discrimination and segregation continues to exist against colored passengers. particularly with respect to buses. railroad coaches and such other accommodations as waiting rooms of certain interstate common carriers. the provisions of the bill are in accordance with the general policy established by the federal courts and contained in several statutes adopted by the congress against discrimination with respect to travel on common carriers operating in interstate commerce. specifically. it would make explicit the travelers right to sue for damages resulting from such discrimination and travel on common carriers in interstate commerce and would also provide uniform penalties against common carriers or their officers. agents. or employees. or any other person who aids or assists any such officers. agents. or employees in denying or attempting to deny the traveler his right to discriminatory and segregated travel. i believe this bill would assure an effective method of eliminating the remaining vestiges of discrimination and segregation in interstate travel. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the body of the record following these remarks.
i should like to ask the distinguished senator from arkansas if it is  a fact that in the federalaid highway bill which recently was passed by the senate. the public works committee established the procedure to be followed in this connection. the senator from arkansas has already pointed out. i believe. that the language of the amendment is substantially the same as language contained in the highway bill.
. the world bank has two unique qualificationsfirst. major experience in analysis and development of conditions for a loan in the railroad field. and. second. insulation from politics. the bank makes thorough studies and develops a comprehensive plan as a precondition to any loan consideration. under my bill. this plan could also be the basis for a loan by other financial institutions which follow similar ibrd standards. while the banks title underscores "reconstruction" and "development." in fact. this institution has helped modernize railroads in industrialized countries. ably japan. the bill provides for a government guaranteenecessary for an ibrd loan or loan from other financial institutionsthe provisions of which would be administered by the secretary of commerce. subject to certain conditions and limitations. the secretary must find that. first. the applicant railroad is unable to obtain the needed funds from private sources on reasonable terms without a guarantee of the loan by the government. second. the rate of interest. other charges. and the schedule for repayment of principal are reasonable for the railroad. third. the applicant railroads program for capital expenditures for which the guarantee is sought is sufficiently comprehensive to provide reasonable assurance that the railroad will be able to maintain its essential freight. passenger. and commuter services and will become ecoically viable and financially sound. and. fourth. that the prospective earning power of the applicant railroad will provide reasonable assurance that the railroad will be able to repay the loan and protect the interest of the united states. there are today only a few essential. hardpressed railroads in the united states but these are in deep troubleand the new haven is at the top of the list. to allow the new haven railroad to fail through inaction is unthinkable. as this railroad is essential to many passengers. is vital to new england and the great metropolitan areas it serves. and provides the only direct rail link between new england and the south. railroad authorities have indicated that the task of planning and financing a comprehensive program for the rehabilitation and modernization of the new haven railroad is comparable to the existing world bank program for the new tokaido rail line in japan. this improved 320mile line between tokyo and osaka. to be completed in 1964. is fully modern in concept with trains capable of 120 miles per hour. some other proposals being mentioned for distressed railroads involve the establishment of public authorities. which is the road to nationalization and could involve excessive time for action by state legislatures and the congress. in the case of the new haven time is running out and a delay of a year may be too long. the world bank could in effect serve as a catalyst for forward action before the last whistle blows for the new haven. a concomitant of this bill is the development of an uptodate national transportation policy of more freedom and less regulation. i am working on a bill addressed to the overall problem. but the first priority must be to save the essential railroads we have . and to preserve and improve their passenger. freight. and commuter services.
. along with my colleague. the gentleman from connecticut . i would call to your attention and to the attention of the members of the house the deteriorating situation facing the new haven railroad. should this railroad fail. many businesses in new york. westchester. and throughout new england would be seriously affected. it is essential that the vital commuter services be maintained. in my judgment. this is a matter of concern that should engage the attention of members of this house. of the regulatory agencies involved. and of the state and county governments of both new york and connecticut. it is important that the railroad problem in the theast be recognized and that both short- and longterm solutions be worked out specifically and promptly in the public interest. time is running out on the new haven. and there is need for prompt and appropriate action at both the state and federal levels to insure its continuance.
. i rise in support of the bill h.r. 5863. i believe. in undertaking research and development in highspeed ground transportation. an important purpose will be served. it is true we need to get people off the road and onto the rails where it can be done conveniently. i hope further this highspeed ground transportation and research bill will be a complement to the urban mass transportation act of 1964. that there will be research benefits which will flow to the needs of urban and suburban commuters. i therefore support this bill and urge its passage.
. i am today introducing two bills to meet the clear and growing problem of aircraft se and air pollution caused by jetpowered aircraft. specifically. one of my bills states that it is the finding of the congress thatthe impact of aircraft generated se upon millions of persons beneath or near the flight paths of such aircraft interrupts and disturbs the peace and quietude of homelife. interferes with public assemblies. and. in general seriously disrupts the community life. further. it states thatthe extensive operation of jetpowered aircraft is contributing to the pollution of the air. thereby creating a hazard to the health and welfare of the public. to meet these problems. one bill empowers the administrator of the federal aviation agency. consistent with the primacy of air safety. "to prescribe and amend standards for the measurement of aircraft se and to prescribe and amend such rules and regulations as he may find necessary for the control and abatement of aircraft se. including the application of such standards. rules. and regulations in the issuance. amendment. modification. suspension. or revocation of any certificate authorized by this title." in addition. the second bill authorizes the administrator to reimburse domestic air carriers and the owners and operators of any airport for up to 30 percent of the cost of modifying their equipment to comply with such regulations. and to reimburse states or municipalities for up to 90 percent of the cost of acquiring necessary land and making other adjustments to comply with such regulations. it is my hope that swift action will be taken on these measures. as members will recall. with regard to the bill glving authority to the administrator to prescribe and amend standards for the measurement and control of aircraft se. gen. william f. mckee. the faa administrator. has already indicated that this authority "is needed to assist us in alleviating a most serious problem."
in response to the chairman. i may say that i have introduced h.r. 17351 which is virtually identical to the bill that the chairman and the gentleman from new york have introduced. and the bill that senator magnuson in large part introduced in the senate. and which is  before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. my bill empowers the administrator of the federal aviation agency. "consistent with the primacy of air safety. to prescribe and amend standards for the measurement of aircraft se and to prescribe and amend such rules and regulations as he may find necessary for the control and abatement of aircraft se. including the application of such standards. rules. and regulations in the issuance. amendment. modification. suspension. or revocation of any certificate authorized by this title." as members will recall. gen. william f. mckee. the faa administrator. has already indicated that this authority "is needed to assist us in alleviating a most serious problem." i would say that i hope that this bill will be acted on promptly by the gentlemans committee.
. we have just passedwith my affitrmative voteh.r. 51. a bill to provide for the establishment of the indiana dunes national lakeshore. i would like to state for the record that had i been present i would also have voted for the amendment to the bill offered by the gentleman from arizona . this amendment adds an additional 478 acres and a milelong stretch of beach to the national lakeshore. it is a vital part of the bill. and i am happy it was adopted before final passage. because of the dense fog over washington this morning. the 9 a.m. plane from laguardiamally a 1hour tripdid  land at national airport until almost n. therefore. i was  present for the rollcall vote on the udall amendmentwhich i strongly support.
. i am introducing today a bill to grant authority to state legislatures to establish local highway review commissions for the purpose of assessing the effect of proposed federalaid highways upon parklands. historic sites. wildlife sanctuaries. and the like. my bill would require the prior approval of a commission in any case where a proposed highway system would pass through or is contiguous with an area over which it has jurisdiction. disapproval by a commission may be overruled only by the secretary of the interior. i have spoken a number of times on this floor in support of conservation measures and have expressed my concern over the shocking disregard for our scenery. wildlife. natural resources. and historic communities and landmarks that has been shown in the past by some corporations. government agencies. and roadbuilders. once a forest or a preserve is destroyed or desecrated by a highway it is ruined forever. as the new york times has observed. certain parts of our country might be aptly described as "walltowall concrete." as our civilization spreads out further from the urban centers of our nation. less and less area remains wild and unspoiled. the bill i am proposing today would permit state legislatures. in their discretion. to create an administrative unit to review proposed highway routes. this review would be in addition to that presently required under the federal highway act to be conducted by state highway commissions. my bill prescribes that a state commission shall be staffed entirely by persons with recognized expertise in the areas of conservation of natural resources and wildlife and preservation of historic sites. communities. and landmarks. approval of a proposed highway may only be granted or denied after provision has been made for appropriate public hearings. the bill leaves the precise jurisdictional base for each commission up to the state legislature in that it may cover a single county or a group of counties. in some instances. it may be the judgment of the legislature that a single state commission is sufficient. while i certainly recognize the need for an adequate and effective highway program. this bill is an attempt to create a decisionmaking authority which would balance the interests of the conservationists against those of the roadbuilders. if we are to take significant steps to save from destruction what remains of our invaluable natural and historical resources. i urge members to give this bill careful consideration.
. that this is a small but an important step forward. there is question but what we must do significantly more to reduce aircraft se. aircraft soot. and to provide some relief to many families who find it difficult either to sleep or to watch television or even to go out on their front porch and have a quiet conversation. my district in westchester county. n.y.. is very close to two of the largest and busiest airports in the nationlaguardia and kennedyand the se problem in certain communities on the approaches to these airports is very serious. while i have been instrumental in alleviating the difficulty to a certain degree by working out an alternate approach pattern with the federal aviation administration. the problem is by means solved. in 1966 and again in 1967. i introduced legislation similar to the bill before us today. the principal change being that the original measures merely authorized the faa to prescribe such rules while the present bill requires him to do so. specifically. h.r. 3400. as amended. requires the faa administrator to prescribe and amend standards for the measurement of aircraft se and sonic boom. and to prescribe and amend any necessary rules and regulations to provide for their control and abatement. the administrator is directed to use the certification procedure as one means of applying these rules. regulations. and standards. h.r. 3400 takes a step toward coming to grips with a problem that has long been discussed but infrequently acted upon. the responsibility for aircraft se abatement must be borne by the carriers and the airport operators but the faa and the department of transportation must see to it that they act on that responsibility. in addition. whatever we do. i believe it is equally vital that we do so fully consistent with aircraft safety. reduction of aircraft se at its source. which is the intent of this legislation. cuts across the three possible solutions to the se problem which seem most feasible: first new or modified engine and airframe designs to achieve a quieter aircraft. second. special flight operating techniques and procedures. and third landuse planning for airports consistent with low se objectives. regrettably. quiet will  be achieved instantly. and in the case of new york. may be even further delayed if a fourth jetport is  built very soon. preferably to the west of the main thsouth corridor. but every appropriate action must be taken by the federal government to work with aircraft designers. airport operators and municipal officials to provide such relief as is  possible. consistent with air safety.
. i am delighted to join the gentleman from washington in hi- efforts to improve the quality of rail : assenger service in this country. in recent weeks and months many of us have received growing numbers of complaints about the deterioration of service on the nations railroads. my own constituents. many of whom are regular passengers on the penn centrals commuter divisions. have cited dirty cars. defective air conditioning and heating systems. short trains. and broken windows as cause for particular concern. the interstate commerce commission has apparently been powerless to improve service on the railroads. and held on september 12 in the messer case that it does  have authority to rule on the adequacy of passenger service. in response to the commissions request. i have cosponsored with mr. adams legislation granting it authority to set adequate standards for rail passenger service. i hope that. before the end of this session. that bill will receive affirmative action by the house. an editorial from the new york times of september 18 in support of such legislation follows:
. i rise in strong support of s. 1933. a bill which will extend federal responsibility and authority in the area of railroad safety. in september of 1969. i introduced similar legislation in bill h.r. railroad safety and service standards have seriously deteriorated in recent years. i have received many letters from my constituents who are daily commuters on the penn central which indicate growing concern over the safety of that railroad. i believe that it is clear that we need more stringent and more comprehensive safety standards on all of our railroads. and active enforcement of these standards once they are promulgated. according to the report of the task force on railroad safety. submitted to the secretary of transportation on june 30..1969. there were 8.028 train acciderits in 1968. compared to only 4.148 in 1961. the department of transportation reports that there were approximately 8.259 accidents in 1969. the american public is certainly rightly concerned when railroad accidents have more than doubled in the last 8 years. while federal regulations will  prevent train accidents. it is my view that the need for additional federal standards in all areas of railroad safety is apparent. according to the report of the task force. at the present time "federal statutes do  cover the trucks. wheels. and axles of railroad cars  their design. construction. or maintenance. bridges and tunnels are  subject to federal regulations. and federal authority governs track and roadbed. there is general authority to promulgate standards for employee qualifications. physical requirements. and training.  to prescribe uniform railroad operating rules." it is my understanding that the railroad industry is the only transportation industry in the united states which presently is  subject to comprehensive federal safety regulations. there is in existence a patchwork of rail safety laws. each of which applies to a specific safety hazard. according to the senate commerce committees report on the present bill. "some 95 percent of the causes of accidents on railroads are in way covered by federal statutes or by state law." it is my view that this extraordinary gap in regulation must be closed immediately by federal action. the present bill goes far toward this end. it authorizes the secretary of transportation to prescribe regulations for all areas of railroad safety. and to conduct the necessary research. development. testing. evaluation. and training in order to bring about a truly safe railroad system. the secretary may also prohibit the use of any facility or piece of equipment which he determines to be unsafe. most importantly. the secretary. with the assistance of the states. will be authorized to conduct investigative and surveillance activities. furthermore. special attention is given in the bill to the problems of transportation of hazardous materials. the secretary is authorized to review all aspects of this problem. concerning the problem of grade crossings. which account for some 65 percent of the fatalities from all types of railroad accidents. the secretary is to report to the congress in 1 year on the need for protecting and eliminating such crossings. in order for these regulations to be effective. they must carry with them civil penalties which are sufficiently large to discourage violations. such penalties are provided in the bill. rangingfrom $250 to $2.500 for violation of any federal regulation. adequate funds are also necessary for these regulations and procedures to be effective. and i am pleased that the bill authorizes some $21 million for each of the next 3 fiscal years toward making these improvements. in closing i would add that it is becoming more clear that the railroads. could play an important role in the public transportation of this nation in years to come. i am hopeful that. as a result of safety legislation and regulations promulgated thereunder. rail service will be upgraded to the point where travelers in this country will once against find it safe. reliable. and efficient to use our railroads on a large scale. only when this happens will we begin to solve the problems of traffic jams on our highways and ease the pollution of the air by automobiles. i therefore strongly urge the house to act favorably on this crucial piece of legislation.
. i rise in strong support of h.r. 18185. the urban mass transportation assistance act of 1970. for the past decade. our cities have been choking on a growing influx of private automobiles which belch air pollution. create traffic jams. and add the blare of honking horns to other urban ses. the publics reliance on the automobile can be attributed in large part to the priorities set by government spending. for example. in fiscal 1970. the federal government provided $2.2 billion for urban highways. while all programs for urban mass transit in the coming year total $214 millionless than onetenth as much. the bill before us today would begin to provide the funds which are necessary if we are to have an efficient mass transit system in this country. specifically. h.r. 18185 would provide for 5year contract authority for $5 billion for mass transit. compared to the senate bills $3.1 billion. federal grants would cover up to twothirds of the net cost of a mass transit project. and. while federal grants would go only to states and local public bodies. public sources would be authorized to provide the local share of net project costs. this would make it possible for private transit companies to cover all the federal share of net project costs. and relieve the financial burden on local governments. this legislation would also authorize the secretary of transportation to provide 10year loans for advance acquisition of real property which. will be needed for urban mass transportation systems. acquisition of such property in advance of construction has become increasingly important as urban land becomes a more scarce and valuable resource. the environment would be protected by h.r. 18185s requirement that local public hearings. stressing a projects impact on the environment. precede obligation of federal grants. commuters in my own district in westchester county. n.y.. are painfully aware of the need for increased federal assistance to improve our mass transit system. regular passengers on the penn centrals commuter divisions. they have been plagued by a series of fires and breakdowns through the summer. and can look forward only to more of the same when cold weather comes. the urban mass transportation administration at dot has already agreed to provide $28 million for modernization of the railroads new haven division once it has been taken over by the states of new york and connecticut. however. much more federal money will be needed if the new havens riders are to have comfortable. safe. and efficient serviceand additional grants will be impossible without this bill. we must change our transportation priorities and end our reliance on cars if our urban areas are to survive and if our city residents are to get to work on time. even the amount provided in this bill is pitifully small in relation to both the needs of our commuters and the threat to our urban environment. therefore. for the sake of my own constituents and for commuters in urban areas all over the country. i urge that my colleagues approve the full funding in the bill reported out by the banking and currency committee. and resist any efforts to reduce the contract level to that approved by the senate. we can begin to develop a balanced transportation system in this country until we provide adequate funding for urban mass transit. i urge the passage of this bill.
. i rise in strong support of the rail passenger. service act of 1970. railroads have historically been the backbone of our nations transportation system. yet over the past several years. as improved highway and air transportation services have made deep inroads into the rail passenger traffic. rail passenger service has gone down while costs have gone up. clearly. positive action and a completely new direction is required . the legislation before us today. if passed. can restore the railroads to a new high position of efficiency. comfort. and safety. this bill would authorize the -establishment of a national railroad passenger corporationa private. forprofit corporation. which would be authorized to operate or contract for the operation of intercity rail passenger trains and to conduct related research and development. in addition. the bill provides needed federal financial assistance to the corporation: $40 million in direct grants. $100 millioi in federal loan guarantees. and $200 million in federal loans to railroads to buy stock. the vital importance of trains must  be underestimated. for instance. a stretch of track can carry 10 to 20 times as many people as one lane of highway. in addition. trains do far less harm to the environment around them than either air or highway travela consideration of  a little importance in light of the threat of a fully paved eastern seaboard and banks of jet smoke resting overhead. for far too long. the railroads have shown shocking disregard for their public responsibility. and for too long the public interest has gone unheard. what is also shocking. however. is that where other modes of public transportation are governmentsubsidized. the railroads have traditionally been neglected and have been totally responsible for their own operations and maintenance. it is little wonder that recently they have faltered. for the future. we must consider the need to change the whole structure of our transportation system so that railroads can be made competitive and can combine their duties with various other modes of transportationtrucks. planes. and shipsas they have done in canada. this would promote the efficiency which we so clearly lack today. today. however. let us accept this strong and needed step toward improved rail service. by establishing an independent corporation and by maintaining a basic minimum network of intercity service. it will lay the groundwork for truly modern rail service for the future.
if i read section 138 correctly. it is concerned solelyand i repeat. solelywith publicly owned lands. the section that determines it is section 128. here public hearings in the original statute are only charged with looking at the ecoic effects of such location. therefore. i think it should be concerned with the overall environmental question. beyond that. if i may complete the sentence. this amendment of mine permits the secretary of the interior to overrule a local environmental highway review commission if it is his judgment that this should be done. so the gentlemans statement that the local commission exercises an absolute veto is  correct. the secretary of the interior makes the final judgment. finally. i say it is  a sustainable position to say that the public  has the right to access to certain facts and figures and it is essential that they should have this right in a timely fashion.
that is precisely my point. it says "land relating to a historic site." however. i feel there must be two points considered. one is the broadest concern for the environment. the secondand this point the gentleman did  address himself to. if i understood him correctlyis that the public should have timely access to all the relevant facts and figures. including highway plans and projections. ecological studies. and other matters pertaining to the environment. the public is  denied that right. i. personally. wish the gentleman would address himself to that point.
. i rise in support of the remarks of the gentleman from new york urging the establishment of buffalo and chicago as end points in the basic national rail passenger system. inclusion of this route in the national system is vital to the continued growth and prosperity of all the people of new york state. without a passenger rail line westward from buffalo. the nearly 4 million people who live in upstate new york along the albanybuffalo axis will be deprived of feasible rail transportation to the midwest and west. the currently planned national system already incorporates the new york citybuffalo route. to terminate this route abruptly in buffalo would make sense whatsoever. it would consign this route to being little more than a regional spur rather than a national trunkline. only by its extension to chicago can this important route serve as a truly useful link in the commerce of the nation. i commend the gentleman from new york for his initiative and heartily add my support for h.r. 4570 to establish passenger service from buffalo to chicago.
 to suspend the right of any foreign airline to operate between the united states and any foreign country which maintains air service between itself and a country which is acting in a manner inconsistent with the hague convention. my question. therefore. is. does  this legislation embody the principle that i and my colleagues have previously introduced.
. aher point i k the chairman is deeply interested in. and one i am hopeful he will act on. should the bill go to conference. would be legislation dealing with metal sensing to make sure that all u.s. carriers. foreign or domestic. obtain necessary metalsensing and xray equipment to detect all weapons and in particular ferrous weapons. as the chairman is well aware. according to a recent report of the faa. there are only 5 out of 36 major u.s. air carriers which presently have metalsensing equipment. and the airline pilots association thinks such equipment is a necessary safeguard both for passengers. airmen. stewardesses. and the flying public.
 could shutdown air service between the united states and algeriaif any existedand also between the united states and a nation such as france. until france terminated its air service to and from algeria. the severe ecoic pressure thus imposed on the offending country would almost surely encourage if  mandate its eventual cooperation in the international crackdown on skyjackers. once an offending country began acting consistently with the terms of the hague convention on air piracyby either prosecuting or extraditing accused skyjackersthe sanctions imposed by this measure would be lifted. as my colleagues k. the senate antiskyjacking bill. which recently passed in the other body by 75 to 1. contains the same provisions as in the bill before us. but it goes farther and attacks the skyjack problem from yet aher direction. the senate bill includes provisions to establishing an air transportation security program in the faa. authorizing $35 million to provide a law enforcement capability and presence at u.s. airports in order to deal with potential skyjackers. additionally. it would require the screening of all passengers and carryon baggage by means of weaponsdetecting devicesto be supplied by the government. if the rules permitted the offering of amendments to the bill before us. i would seek to have the house adopt similar provisions today. in my judgment. the faa and the airlines have been shamefully derelict in their responsibility to the traveling public by  already having instituted weaponsscreening procedures on an acrosstheboard basis. recently. 28 of my colleagues joined me in sponsoring a bill which would require inspection of all passengers and baggage by means of advanced metal detection devices or xray devices by january 1. 1973. the air lines pilots association strongly supports this kind of legislation. i wish to invite attention to the following letter which i have just received from alpa:
i thank the gentleman for his comment. . i would point out the gover of connecticut mr. meskill has stated that he is "unalterably opposed" to the bridge and that it would impinge seriously on the road network in connecticut. i would also point out that  only has the legislature in new york opposed this but it did so unanimously in the senate and in the assembly in april of 1972. the gover withstanding. this amendment is  only included in the senate bill but also it is supported by both senators of the state of new york and by both senators of the state of connecticut. the purpose of this is to encourage cooperation among states in the planning and development of highway projects. it is  an effort to totally preclude the construction of a particular bridge. it is. however. an effort to insure that the rights of affected. contiguous states are protected and that they do have a voice in a matter which can affect them.
i should like to direct a question to the ranking miity member. because i believe one point needs clarification. the amendment specifically says: the secretary shall  approve any project under this title which would significantlyby that it means adverselyaffect the highway system of a contiguous state without the concurrence of that state. if the secretary determined there were significant effect. the matter would be moot. on the other hand. if the secretary. after careful consideration. determines there will be an adverse impact on a contiguous statein this case involving potentially 25 million additional cars on highways already close to capacitythen and only then is it clear that the secretary must seek concurrence of both states. i believe that is only fair. if he determines there is  an adverse effect. then it is  operative.
i commend the gentleman in the well for his statement. there is one additional point in terms of thinking about the importance of this legislation which i believe should be mentioned. that is. this legislation is critically important for our senior citizens and our handicapped. as the american association of retired persons and the national retired teachers association point out. the average retirement couple spends about 8.9 cents out of every dollar on transportation. this may mean the difference as to whether they are able to visit a senior citizens center or to see a doctor. i believe in terms of the elderly and the handicapped this is something critically important. i urge passage of this bill to provide and improve transportation facilities throughout the nation. including in new york where high bus and subway fares threaten reduced use of the lines and at least indirectly impede construction of new vitally needed ones. operating subsidies authorized in this bill would do much to increase passenger use of the lines and in the long run generate" new revenues.
i wanted also to commend the gentleman for the report that he has just made and also for the restraint with which he has analyzed the situation as he found it. i believe it is a quite reasonable statement that you have made. i was privileged also. and i appreciated the opportunity to travel to mississippi to meet with james meredith in memphis yesterday. he is a student at the columbia law school. of which i am an alumnus. so we had something we could discuss in addition to the problems with which he has been faced. i wanted also to thank the officials of the state of mississippi who received us. and especially the highway patrol. who were quite courteous and helpful during our sojourn there. i k the gentleman from michigan appreciates the fact that the problem of human rights for all. and of being sure that we have freedom from fear. is a partisan question. in that connection i call his attention to the fact that yesterdayand it is referred to on page 12531 of the congressional recorda group of republicans. led by the gentleman from maryland . introduced their version of the civil rights act of 1966. which is the same as the administrations version. in order to protect all people everywhere who are trying to do their best to see to it that everyone has the opportunity to exercise the rights of all american citizens.
. i take this opportunity to raise the question in this body of the current dispute concerning the reduction from 120 to 90 nautical miles in the width of air corridors assigned to airplanes flying above 29.000 feet. this 90mile separation pattern of spacing jets for transatlantic traffic was directed by the federal aviation agency on january 13. 1966. the purpose of reducing the width of the airlanes from 120 to 90 nautical miles was to permit the lanes to handle more traffic at peak hours on the worlds busiest international air route. the federal aviation agency informs me that this reduction was agreed to at a special th atlantic meeting of the international civil aviation organization. the meeting. which began on february 23. 1965. and ended march 20. 1965. was held in montreal. canada. the proposal was based on a 4year study called project accordion. it consisted of data obtained from aircraft flight logs. pilot reports. and radar sightings covering approximately 5.000 flights undertaken by airplanes from 14 airlines. the following countries and international organizations attended the special th atlantic meeting and subscribed to the 90mile lateral separation proposal: australia. belgium. canada. cuba. czechoslovakia. denmark. france. germany. iceland. ireland. israel. italy. japan. mexico. netherlands. nicaragua. .way. portugal. spain. sweden. switzerland. united kingdom. and the united states. * international organizations were: european organization for the safety of air navigationeurocontrl. * international airline navigators councilianc. international aircraft owners and pilots associationiaopa. international air transport associationiata. international federation of air line pilots associationifalpa. international telecommunications unionitu. world meteorological organzationwmo. international radio air safety associationirasa. the nature and content of the 90mile lateral separation agreement reached at the meeting of the international civil aviation organization and subscribed to by the above parties was recorded under item 6. sections 611.3.12 and 6iii1.1.12 in the 1965 special th atlantic conference report. the provisions of the agreement are set forth below:
. i support the bill before us today as evidence of recognition by this great body of the tremendous needs in the field of mass transit and a com1 mitment to help resolve the mass transit problems of the urban areas. while it is  nearly egh to do the job. it provides a definite program for a good beginning.
. just a short time ago today. the gentleman from mississippi spoke by unanimous consent out of regular order. he was out of regular order in more ways than one. he made defamatory remarks about two members of the new york bar who could  obviously be here to defend themselves. in fact. inasmuch as these statements came during the discussion of the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act. this action might be called highway robbery. because defamation. even under the cloak of congressional immunity. is still a form of theft. if the gentleman from mississippi had a valid point. he could have spoken in regular order subject to mal rebuttal without a hitandrun attack. i make point as to the specifics in the statement by the gentleman from mississippi. because i believe the two gentlemen from new york are qualified to defend themselves. however. i k william kunstler. esq.. who taught at new york law school at the same time that i taught there. and i do believe that his integrity as a lawyer and author has  been questioned in any proper forum.
ial board on water pollution.  of new yorks "upper sixth avenue se abatement society." he interested rep. theodore r. kupferman. rn.y.. author of legislation to stifle the se problem at all governmental levels. kupfermans legislative assistant. james j. kaufman. presented the problem yesterday to a conference on all types of pollution sponsored here by the association of american * geographers. baron has even taken his case to the international congress of se abatement. which last year met in badenbaden. germany. to hear the new yorker single out garbage collection as the prime offender in his city in the last 26 years.  only the se of the trucks and cans at 3 a.m. in gotham alleys. but also the shouts of. the garbage men were a wide source of complaint. according to baron. he made a motion for plastic cans. but balked at trying to limit the collectors right of free speech. airplanes are the most objectionable sewise. kaufman said. in washington. the most vociferous group has been can (committee against national. or to abolish national. depending on the vehemence of the opinionholder). can. a coalition of civic organizations seeking to scotch all air traffic at national airport. has annced a rallypossibly selessat the arena stage to protest the jet sounds. as if in recognition of the difficulties ahead. kaufman ended his speech to a hushed audience yesterday by saying: "hope i havent made too much se." [from the washington post. jan. 29. 1967]
 signed public law 89562 which i supported and which amended the urban mass transportation act of 1964 so as to extend its duration and broaden its scope. unfortunately. however. the brush did  paint broadly egh and  more federal assistance is urgently needed. at the present time the annual federal grant of $150 million to aid mass transit operations is negligible compared to the approximately $4.3 billion appropriated for this year for highway construction and other aids to surface transportation. for this reason. . we must  fail to meet the demands of our societys transportation struggle in which we are so acutely involved. as senator javits has said: we must stay ahead of the growth of our urban transit needs by developing a farsighted comprehensive plan for urban mass transit . . . the federal government must. with one hand. help the commuter railroads to stay alive. while. on the other hand. it must give a longterm aid so that these railroads may establish a more secure ecoic position through a capitalization program designed to modernize their facilities. i believe the legislation which i am introducing would be a needed step in the direction of meeting our transit needs of today. if  tomorrow.
. the labor day weekend. which begins in 2 days and is expected to set an all time high in holiday weekend traffic deaths and injuries. offers a dramatic reminder of the critical need for improved highways. last year. on labor day weekend alone. 638 persons were killed while traveling on our nations highways. the american automobile association estimates that the coming labor day weekend will see 25 million cars. carrying 70 million people. crowding this countrys roads. we must do more than simply shudder at the thought of how many fatalities will be caused by this massive traffic jam. fiftythree thousand men. women. and children died in traffic accidents last year while 1.900.000 suffered disabling injuries. the american public has suffered damages of $10 billion as the direct result of automobile accidents.2 all the wars ever fought by this country do  come close to having caused as many fatalities as have been caused by highway accidents. more than two and onehalf times as many americans have been killed on highways than have been killed in wars. during the 89th congress this body passed. and i supported. a legislative milestone in automobile and highway safety. the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act and the highway safety act i enacted by that congress have made and will continue to make significant contributions in the areas of automobile and highway safety. today i am introducing legislation that will increase the effectiveness of the highway safety act of 1966 by amending it so as to provide for additional research to be conducted under the direction of the department of transportation. my bill focuses upon the serious problems caused by improper road surfaces and highway design. i am asking that research be conducted to find a solution to the very serious problems caused by the blinding effects of road surface glare and the headlights of oncoming cars. a major function of the highway safety act of 1966 is the assistance it provides to state and local governments for the improvement and expansion of their highway safety programs. in accordance with uniform national performance standards. on june 27. 1967. alan s. boyd. secretary of transportation. annced 13 such national standards pursuant to the highway safety act. each participating states highway safety program must conform to these standards. and any state  complying after january 1. 1969. will be penalized by a 10percent reduction of its allotment of funds under the highway safety act. these standards promulgated by the department of transportation in the areas of driver education. driver licensing. alcoholism. motor vehicle inspection and traffic control devices have created a solid foundation upon which we can build a safer network of roads. however. i believe that these standards set by the department constitute only one aspect of a safe highway program. federally sponsored research to determine the most modern techniques and materials that are available for highway design and construction is a must if we statistics were supplied by the national highway safety council. 2 ibid. 3 ibid. public law 89563. public law 89564.. are to reach our ultimate goal of stemming. and perhaps even stopping. the annual blood bath that takes place or nations roads. the department of transportation is at present compiling cost estimates from the various states of the implementation of the departments national standards. we can encourage the speedy adoption of these standards by the states by offering the participating states the latest results of highway safety research. in 1966. more than $31/3 billion was expended on a joint basis by the federal government and the states for expansion of the interstate highway system as part of an overall figure of $30.6 billion 6 in the federal highway program. is it  sheer madness to go on spending such sums on our highways without a proportionate expenditure for research to help us build the most modern and safest highways that man is capable of building. the research presently being carried on by the department of transportation is limited to: first. the support work necessary to assist the states in establishing and operating safety programs under the standards developed by the national highway safety bureau in cooperation with other states and interested groups. second. the support that will be needed by the states in setting up and operating uniform traffic safety activities. such as those dealing with driver education and licensing. law enforcement. vehicle inspection. accident investigation. and community support of safety programs. third. the development work needed to support the wide variety of activities being furthered by the bureau: these will include planning and research in relation to traffic data and documentation centers. the investigation of crashes. the establishment of human impact tolerances. the role of alcohol and alcoholics to traffic safety. and the development of the necessary government test facilities and equipment. fourth. the safety performance of new and used motor vehicles of all varieties." my bill calls for an enlargement of the scope of federally supported highway safety research projects. merely to investigate some of the dangers and problems of automobile travel is to cover only part of the problem. our country and people deserve a more concentrated effort to save those lives lost each year. to cite only one example. it is well kn that the temporary blindness of drivers brought on by the glare from road surfaces and the glare from oncoming headlights reflected by the road surface is a major cause of the deaths of the many thousands of americans killed on our highways. the need is immediate and great to find an answer to this problem. even the traditional belief that a dark road surface was best for the reduction of this glare is  being seriously challenged according to the national highway safety bureau. an evaluation is being made of a white. artificial siliceous aggregate called "sy6 the federal highway .administration. bureau of public roads. al." it is a surface aggregate which. it is claimed. has excellent skid resistance and nighttime visibility characteristics.6 it is presently being considered by at least one company for production in the united states.9 activities such as this are presently only monitored by the federal authorities. instead of only monitoring these independent projects. the federal government should be encouraging their speedy development. i urge my colleagues to give careful consideration to this bill that i have introduced today. if the research that i am calling for is  conducted. the daily slaughter of human beings taking place on this countrys roads will doubt continue to grow.
. i rise to offer an amendment to s. 780. the air quality act of 1967. my amendment would give states like my own. new york. a freer hand in establishing more stringent air pollution control standards for automobiles when the federal requirements do  provide adequate safeguards for a states special air pollution problem. the act. in its present form. leaves little room for states to improve upon the federal standards and allows these standards to preempt any regulations established by the states. my amendment would allow the federal criteria to take precedence only when state standards are less stringent. it will give the states greater opportunity to expand air pollution controls to accommodate their special needs--particularly in urban areas where pollution has become an everincreasing health hazard. urban areas obviousiy have different problems which can be accommodated by the same airpollution standards for automobiles which might be appropriate for the wideopen spaces of wyoming. specific problems may require ad hoc and immediate solutions. the tragic consequences of the 4day thermal inversion in new york during thanksgiving. 1966.1 serves as a dramatic reminder for the need to tailor air pollution regulations to fit the special needs of a geographic area. state should be encouraged to be inactive in protecting its citizens. rather. states and localities should be permitted and encouraged to take preventative action that may be more forceful in its measures than those prescribed by the federal standards. although the development of automobile emission controls may be costly. human life and health is a far more valuable commodity. my own 17th congressional district in the heart of new york city is a critical example of air pollution aggravated by automobile exhaust fumes. my constituents. as well as all urban residents. can attest to the "garbage in air" in the vacuum which this amendment should fill. presently. the federal government places the burden upon the automobile industry pursuant to the federal standards to develop the devices to limit the air pollution generated by automobiles. inasmuch as the automobile industry builds the airpollution device into the car at the site of manufacture. all cars sold in the country will have the same exhaust emission standard. thus. we have the situation where a buyer of a car in wyoming has the same automobile exhaust control device which a buyer of a car in california has. but the air pollution problem facing these two individuals is clearly distinguishable. to build an airpollution device to fit either the average need of the nation or 1 see addendum material. that of the least common deinator is to deprive the large urban area of relief from its increasingly critical air pollution problem. according to the department of health. education. and welfare. the federal government does  investigate the success of devices which private corporations or manufacturers produce. these private manufacturers are told to approach the automobile industry with their ideas. the automobile industry. having prepared their own devices. turns these people away. consequently. we do  have any actual data on types of devices that could be placed on an automobile at the place of sale. it may be that if this matter was investigated further. we would find devices that could be placed on the car at the point of sale which would adhere to the specific emission standard required by the particular state. presently. the federal standards are identical to californias. which has the most stringent regulations of any state. however. california authorities admit that their present controls are clearly inadequate to meet their needs. under the air quality act in its present form. any future changes could only be made by the secretary of health. education. and welfare. my amendment provides new direction for the nations air pollution program by allowing states to establish their own ecoically feasible standards. the secretary of health. education. and welfare would be forced to investigate the devices. which can be placed on the cars at the point of sale. inasmuch as the states could present these devices to prove the ecoic feasibility of their requirements. i urge my colleagues to give this suggestion their careful consideration. under my proposal. the states would have more power to tackle their airpollution problems as they develop. as opposed to having the federal government place pressure on the automobile industry to make changes in their exhaust systems after the states problem becomes so critical as to warrant changes in the standards applicable to the nation. the seriousness of the situation and the need are pointed up by the attached letter of october 30. 1967. from the commissioner of health of the state of new york. dr. hollis s. ingraham:
. i am pleased to join our distinguished colleague from san antonio. the hoable henry b. gonzalez. in support of hemisfair 1968 opening april 6. 1968. representing. as i do. the 17th congressional district in the heart of manhattan. the tourist capital of the world where. among other things. one finds the main office of asta. the american society of travel agents. i want  only to urge my colleagues as well as my constituents to attend. if they can. this colorful interamerican fair. but also to urge all americans to take advantage of this opportunity. congressman gonzalez. with whom i have discussed plans for hemisfair for well over a year . inaugurated the first program of my radio show "new york on the potomac" on new york citys municipal broadcasting systemwnycon thursday. september 21. by discussing this fair. if the fair is successful. and i hope that it is. having been approved as the only 1968 official fair by the bureau of international expositionsbiein paris. it will be. in small measure. due to the energy and resourcefulness of congressman gonzalez since his original sponsorship of the proposal. which passed the house in 1966. with the balanceofpayments problem. which concerns all of my colleagues. one way to enjoy a vacation and stay in the united states is to visit san antonio. tex.. for the fair. further. the fair will attract foreign tourists to our shore during this international travel year to which i have adverted in previous discussions in the house. see. for example. 11. 1967. page a5014. regarding the u.s. travel services contribution to encouraging foreign visitors. congressman gonzalez is to be commended for his efforts in this direction.
. i rise in support of h.r. 14935 to amend title 39 of the united states code. to regulate the mailing of master keys for motor vehicle ignition switches and door locks. however. it does  go far egh. according to the u.s. department of justice. auto theft is the third most frequently committed felony throughout the nation. following only burglary and grand larceny. moreover. i am informed that in measurable financial loss. auto theft is second only to burglary. in new york city. it is  the  1 property theft problem. this is why i. myself. introduced in 1966 h.r. 16657. reintroduced in the 90th congress as h.r. 3774. legislation similar to that before the house. in addition. however. my bill would reduce thefts of motor vehicles by prohibiting the exportation of unidentified motor vehicles. as well as by prohibiting the unauthorized possession and transmission in interstate commerce of motor vehicle master keys. my original statement with respect to it is found 112. part 13. page 17550. the increasing problem of auto thefts is particularly disturbing to me because there is already such a high incidence of crime committed within the new york city area. in 1960. according to the fbi. there were 24.325 car thefts in manhattan. in 1962. this figure jumped to 27.366. or 246.4 cars stolen per 100.000 people in the metropolitan area. in 1964. there were 39.638 car thefts in the new york metropolitan area as contrasted with 49.228 thefts that year in all new york state. in other words. in 1964 there were 348.9 cars stolen per 100.000 people in new york city as compared with 274.8 cars stolen per 100.000 inhabitants of new york state. statistics from the federal bureau of investigation indicate that more than 60 percent of all auto thefts are committed by youngsters under the age of 18. the all too familiar pattern experienced by law enforcement officials is that of the "joyride." where the car is stolen. used and then returned or left for the owner or police to find. aside from the serious consequences of an arrest. trial. and conviction of our youth. "joyriding" presents a real threat to all those who use the nations streets and highways. the young drivers unfamiliarity with the stolen car. together with his apprehensive state of mind and lack of pride of ownership in the vehicle serve to insure a reckless drive thereby creating a hazard to inent motorists. one way in which we can reverse the current climb in the number of auto thefts in the united states is to recognize and stop a means employed to accomplish this crime which has recently developed with alarming speed. i refer to the fact that thousands of car thieves are aided each year by the use of socalled master keys. master keys are designed to fit some or all makes and models of cars and are usually ordered and sent by their manufacturers through the mail. on july 22. 1967. the new york times covered my demonstration in new york city of how easy it is to open a car door with master keys obtained through the mail with questions asked. in preparing for this demonstration to take place just outside my district congressional office. i purchased 18 master keys for $10 through the mail from an organization in florida. indiscriminate sale of these keys allows them to fall into the hands of juveniles and professional criminals alike. and are perfect instruments to enable them quietly and quickly to steal a car and to remove its contents or valuable parts. such as engines and radios. without being discovered. i would strongly urge our nations automobile industry to cooperate in a massive national effort to reduce auto thefts. one way in which they could help would be voluntarily to improve the lock mechanisms of the ignition and other parts of the automobiles so that they will be more difficult to pick. aher of the ways in which thieves are able to disguise the stolen automobile is to grind the serial numbers off the engine while at the same time repainting the car a different color so that it may be disposed of on the open market. the difficulty with this procedure. however. is that it is time consuming. and time is a precious ingredient to the successful operation of the auto thieves ring. also. it requires technical resources. therefore. a much faster and thus safer means is generally employed by the professional auto thieves to dispose of their "hot" cars. the cars are simply shipped. trucked or driven out of the united states to be sold in a foreign country close to the united states. or in many cases. overseas. this method of disposition of the stolen vehicles is made considerably easier for the thieves primarily because. under present law. there is absolutely requirement that the u.s. customs service make a check to ascertain proof of ownership of any motor vehicle being shipped. flown. trucked or driven out of the united states.  is it their policy to do so. to require some evidence of ownership or lawful identity in addition to the routine statistical check made by custom officials of those seeking to export vehicles at our borders would be a far less hardship than to continue to allow the felons who steal our motor vehicles and endanger our lives. rapidly and successfully to complete their plans by simply removing the stolen vehicles from the country. this is why i introduced h.r. 3774. a bill which would provide that it shall be unlawful for any person to transport a motor vehicle or motorcycle out of the united states without first making a satisfactory showing of proof to the secretary of commerce regarding the ownership or lawful identification of the motor vehicle being exported. i believe it is imperative that the federal government take action  to come to the aid of local and state law enforcement officials in their struggle to effectively deal with the growing menace of auto theft. the enactment of legislation to prevent the unauthorized transportation of automobile ignition master keys across state lines is a step in this direction. but more is needed. by letter of august 3. 1966. j. edgar hoover informed me that his organization had jurisdiction to cope with the problem of shipment abroad. see congressional record. volume 112. part 14. page 18427. his letter follows:
. my colleague. the gentleman from iowa is to be commended for  allowing the incident or the men of the u.s.s. pueblo to be forgotten. if aher 6 months must go by without action. by that time a new administration with a new mandate from the american people will provide a rudder back on the u.s. ship of state.
well. that may be. that is what makes the world go around. . i really. in a way. have to admire people with a lot of brass. i mean. they find an opening and they drive a truck through it. begrudgingly egh. you have to hand it to them. to come in with a provision like this is really something. the government has defenses whatsoever. sitting up here in the gallery we have taxpayers of the united states. and we are saying to them. "you are  entitled to be represented in this instance." the only person who has a say is the examiner of the xray down in the local community. the man from wheeling. w. va.. sends in the xray and says: "black lung is here." and. by golly. they can send along a selfaddressed envelope with the message: "please send us our check." it is amazing that they have  put in a provision that they can request a blank check and say: "let us fill in the amount."
if i might continue. what seems to be the problem. is the problem that the epa estimates of an automobile in the city or over the highway do  seem to be accurate. is that the problem. is it that the combined mileage figures are  accurate. it seems to me that we are receiving all these figures from the epa . i have a splendid little booklet which tells me everything about the mileage of every model of car which is manufactured. is the dispute with the accuracy of the figures.
it seems to me it is too bad we have to pass laws concerning this subject. . is it  possible to just ask the epa to do this. i agree. i have always thought the estimates were very high. 38 miles per gallon as a combined mileage on some car. and so forth. but at least. they are using the same standard for all cars and we just apply a discount factor. if dissatisfied. rather than pass a law would it  be better to just ask them to do it. is that possible.
. the bill i am introducing today addresses one facet of the highway program which i am convinced should be a federal responsibility for a long time to come: adequate maintenance of this nations major arteries. there are other facets of the federalaid program about which i am less certain. we must. in the course of our deliberations. attempt to determine what the federal role should be in supporting road systems. i hope to explore whether there is a justifiable federal interest in assisting any road system other than those which serve regional and interstate transportation. i think we must consider the budgetary implications of involving the federal government in what are essentially local road or transportation problems. i think we must ascertain if there are highwayrelated problemslike highway safetywhich are likely to be solved only with some impetus from thf federal government. finally. i think we need to consider the most appropriate funding source. be it the trust fund or something else. foi the federal program. in view of the changing nature of highway needs from new construction to rehabilitation. in order to provide a good overview of where we are and where some would have us head. i ask unanimous consent that an article which appeared in the wall street journal on january 31 be printed in the record. together with the text of my bill
i think the canal is left. come the year 2000. to the panamanians. we have to have some confidence in them. as we always have to have confidence in any kind of dealing. in their national pride. their sense of selfinterest. after all. this canal is  the only way to transport goods between the seas. as we k. there are alternate ways. if this canal is  kept in operational and proper maintenance. then shippers will use alternate methods.
just one matter which we might clarify. it seems to me that what we are doing is trying to add to this treaty. to which we are trying  to add amendments that are unnecessary. an amendment which is really unnecessary. because it seems clear that u.s. vessels could intercept a ship outside the limits of the canal. in this case. the treaty provides for a 3mile zone. so this amendment seems unnecessary.
and. of course. the ranking miity member of our committee.  of the subcommittee on transportation and the other members of the environment and public works committee. republican and democrat alike. with the cooperation of the administration and the entire transportation community. we worked hard and long to design a progressive highway bill which embraces and builds on the best of the federal highway program. and where necessary. we have instituted changes to make most creative and efficient use of our limited highway trust fund dollars. this is a particularly crucial time for the federalaid highway program. it is essential that the congress adopt highway legislation before the end of the second session of the 95th congress. without it. an estimated 39 states will be forced to cease various aspects of their construction and rehabilitation programs. we must act quickly on s. 2072 to insure that this vital federal program continues. uninterrupted.
madam president. there is question that the distinguished senator from iowa has been a persistent battler for this cause. he is a member of the subcommittee dealing with this matter. since rejection. he has regrouped his forces. prepared aher onslaught in the full committee. was repulsed. but was  discouraged. he came up with a further modification and plunged on to success here. before the full senate. so the senator from iowa deserves high marks for his persistence and determination on this bridge matter. also. the senator from pennsylvania has appeared before the committee. with some persistence. and has stated his views here very eloquently. so their oratory has carried it. i am persuadedperhaps  enthusiastically. but etheless persuaded. i suppose that if one is doing something. one might as well do it graciously. i suggest a caveat. which will go completely unheeded. i am certain. i point out that we are embarking into a new area here. we are going into bridges on offsystem highways. we do  have egh money to care properly for the responsibilities that the trust fund presently has. but etheless we are going off in this direction. however. there is point in adding what might be considered a sour e to the otherwise happy proceedings. so i will join my distinguished chairman in supporting this. i might propose to the senator from iowa a slight modification. if i may. to take care of particular situations. in his state and in the state of pennsylvania there are. of course. many miles of offsystem roads. in some states either there are  that many miles of offsystem roads and consequently the bridges. or there may be that many miles of offsystem roads but  many bridges that require the maintenance that is so necessary in the states of iowa. pennsylvania. south dakota. and some others. my amendment would do the following: if the secretary. after consultation with state and localofficials. with respect to the requirement for expenditure on bridges  on the federalaid system. determines that such state has inadequate needs such bridges which justifies such an expenditure. he may reduce the 15 percent requirement. how often that will come up. i do  k. but i suspect that in my own state we may  have as much offsystem bridge work. so i suggest this modification to the senator from iowa. and i send it to the desk.
. i second the comments of the floor manager of this bill. this proposal by the senator from alaska is unique. i must say that he has been very vigorous in fighting for funds for alaska. however. as he recalls. we gave alaska. which does  have any interstate highways. the 3r money that they mally have for the interstate. and we let them use it for their primary system.  he apparently is attempting to go one step further and use these primary funds  just for the construction of the railroad but also for the financing of the railroads operations. i was in alaska recently and rode on that railroad. and i could  have been treated in a more splendid fashion. it is with some regret that i would oppose the amendment by the senator from alaska because of the new territory it is breaking into. i take it that we are going to discuss this matter further on monday.
. let me say that this is  only an excellent amendment. but it makes one wonder why it is necessary. why we are so bogged down in bureaucracy that in order to maintain a beautiful highway like the baltimorewashington parkway. we have to have a special act of congress in order to retain its beauty and yet have it deemed an interstate road. it makes us wonder about some of the procedures around here. i commend the senator from maryland for his amendment. i am delighted that the beauty of that road can be preserved.
the requirement for adequate maintenance is independent of the amount of federal 3r funds made available to a state. in other words. the states have to maintain the roads regardless of the 3r funds. although the 3r funds are for the interstate system primarily. but they then can be used for what the senator is seeking here. is it correct to say that the senators amendment in way relaxes the requirement for adequate maintenance or makes the requirement conditional upon the availability of the federal funds.
. i share with the chairman of the subcommittee the view that that is just going too far. the purpose of the primary highway program is to provide federal assistance chiefly for needs of the nations major highways. and i join in opposition to the amendment.
. the steady erosion in the effectiveness of the federal highway beautification act was examined in a recent report carried on the cbs morning news. cbs pointed out that many believe that the highway beautification law had become the "billboard protection act." during this cbs segment. our distinguished colleague. senator stafford. appeared to discuss his billboard control legislation. s. 344. i ask that a transcript of this segment from the cbs morning news be printed in the record.
. i voted "aye" on the socalled riegle resolution. senate concurrent resolution 101. to promote the competitiveness of u.s. industry in the world automobile and truc er markets. however. i would  want an3 one to misconstrue my vote as being i a favor of import restrictions on foreig e automobiles and trucks entering tb .r united states. n i supported the resolution for tw ir basic reasons. first. because it demon strates a deep concern over the loss c n jobs in the american automobile an n truck manufacturing industry. and sec e ond. because it urges that ecoic ani . fiscal policies be designed to promot rapid plant conversions for the produc - tion of safe. highquality. fuelefficien - vehicles. it is a change in such policie that will enable the domestic automobili industry to become competitive onci t again worldwide. there are several references in thi n resolution to the term "import policy y and the vague suggestion that there bt a a restriction placed on such imports ir d the future. my vote in favor of the riegl( " resolution in way supports restricl tions on imports. higher tariffs. or an3 other protectionist actions. * protectionist efforts. be they reclassifications. u.s. plant requirements. o quotas on imported autos. ige the i effects over the past several years of fastrising gasoline prices. and worldwide concern for energy conservation. while the u.s. auto industry continued to produce oversize gasguzzlers. fuel efficiency of the average import has been stretched to 32 miles per gallon. that is why american consumers wait in line to buy imports. and are willing to pay premium prices for them. i am concerned about the domestic auto workers whose jobs are at stake. but feel protectionist trade measures would deprive the american consumer of energysaving products they clearly want. furthermore. restrictions would  serve the mutual ecoic interests of the united states and japan in the long term. such measures would be selfdefeating at a time when we are working to remove import restrictions in other countries.
. i wish to express my regrets that this legislation fails to contain funds for the section 141 program encouraging bicycle transportation. i believe that the demand for an effective bicycle program in this country is strong. there is a need to make roadway improvementsfrom separate paths tc improve road shoulders and wider curb lanesin order to provide a greater degree of safety for cyclists. when an individual cycles to work. both the indivddual and the nation benefit. the individual benefits with better health and in less expenditures for travel to work. the nation benefits with less air pollution. less energy use. and less auto traffic. which means more congestionfree roads. allowing those who must drive to work to travel at a more convenient speed. it also lessens the demand for new roads and road maintenance. thus a few million dollars spent to encourage bicycling could save tens of millions of dollars in investment in other transportation modes. i recognize that the committee does  see a need to appropriate new funds at this time due to the tardiness which the department of transportation has acted to obligate funds already available. grant regulations were  published until last may. so. of course. the money has  been fully spent. but the demand is there. state and local governments made over 500 project requests. totaling some $40 million. for these limited section 141 program funds. that clearly indicates to me that a strong need exists for this program. i urge that the department of transportation move rapidly to obligate and expend that $4 million in fiscal year 1980 moneys. i would hope that once this occurs. that the administration and the appropriations committees will consider an appropriation for this very important section 141 program. it is a small program. but it will prove to be a significant investment. i would make one further point regarding the increasing demand for bicycle transportation facilities. one of the impediments to commuter bicycling has been the unwillingness of both the public and private sectors to provide adequate and safe bicycle parking facilities for their employees. s. 2080. which the senate passed earlier this year. mandates that the general services administration provide safe bicycle parking facilities at all federal buildings. once that occurs. we should confront even greater demand for safe bicycle routes. this is why this section 141 program ds so essential.
. i ask unanimous consent that the following article entitled "containerization spurs growth at the port of providence" in the october 20. 1980. issue of the journal of commerce be printed in the record.
i said that a year ago the committee came to this floor recommending the oriskany with all the persuasive powers at their command. a year later. they have reversed this position. less than a year ago. they said to us on the oriskany that the actual ship overhaul would take 15 to 18 months. less than a year later. they come back and tell us it will take 34 to 42 months. a year ago i was opposed to the reactivation of the oriskany. as was the senator from arkansas. as the senator will recall. we did  go to a vote on that issue because we were defeated in the first amendment we attempted on the floor which was to deny funding to proceed with reactivation of the new jersey. that amendment failed. i think the vote was 40 to 51. the new jersey and the oriskany were subsequently kked out in the appropriations committee. however. the point i am making here. . is that the committee made a mistake -last year in connection with the oriskany. they recognized their mistake this year. but i think the same kind of careful thought should be applied to the new jersey  as was applied to the oriskany. the committee is fallible. as any committee is.
i do  recall all the arguments back and forth as to the saratoga. i was  deeply involved in that. i voted for the philadelphia overhaul. however. i think we should get on with the problem we have here. the question is this: do we as a government. as representatives of the people. who want strong armed services. want to spend a half billion dollars overhauling a ship and getting it into commissiona ship which. at best. even with the most optimistic answers of the proponents. will have a 15year lifewhen we can spend the money and get what we should be getting. a modern ship. let us  play around with sounding glorious trumpets for past memories by getting on with a ship that we have  inspected.
you are  going to get anything. either a modern ship or an overhaul of this ship. for $326 million. according to the chief of naval operations. and you are  going to get anything in 21 months. i think we all recognize that. i am surprised that we have estimates coming in that this ship can have turrets taken off. can be overhauled. and can have this retrofitting that has to be done in 21 months. that is less than 2 years. i do  k who dreamed up that figure. i believe we should move on. if we should have frigates. let us get them. but let us  be dealing with ships that are out of style and costly to operate.
let me answer the question. you have opened the floodgates. and you will get the flood. the ship proved ineffective in the mission for which it was designedineffective in the vietnam war. it was tremendously costly to operate. it required a very substantial number of crew. i would say over 1.500 men. and we deactivated it. it was  worth it. it was a fiasco. truly.
i share the concern of the members of the committee on armed services about building up our fleet. and i think we have definitely got to get more ships and good ships in service. it just seems to me a pity putting this type of money into a very expensive operation which is going to take considerable time which. i think when we are through. is going to cost closer to $.5 billion to get a ship which in its optimistic view as to estimates will have a service life of 15 years when we can get a fine ship whether it is a frigate or something else that comes along. for this $.5 billion that will serve our navy with credibility and excellence for close to 30 years. so. . i think we just have to invest every nickel we can in our personnel and our ships that are going to be here for many years to come. i have completed my statement. and the senator from arkansas has the remainder of the time.
. i will just take 1 minute. the manpower point we are making hereand i share the concerns of the senator from texasis that this massive ship takes extra men to run it. they are needed to operate the suite of weapons that are on it as opposed to a smaller ship designed to be more efficient in terms of manpower. all navy ships . with their gas turbines and a host of other manpowersaving qualities about them. are designed to operate with as few people as possible. the new jersey was built in an era when manpower was  a cause of concern. 2.500 to 3.000 people made difference. we had the men. but we do  have them . we lack the people to operate this massive type of ship with the numbers of weapons that will be aboard it. that is the crux of the manpower argument that we face in reactivating this ship.
. i have a couple of questions i would like to direct to the chairman of the. committee on armed services. if i might. i ask. the senator from texas. am i correct in understanding that this money for the new jersey will come from new ship constructi6n. is that correct.
. this legislation incorporates that premise. the bill we are  considering returns se control back to the states and localities. but it conditionally reserves federal regulation over railroad and interstate motor carrier se emissions. this reservation was made in the interest in the smoother functioning of interstate commerce. railroads and interstate motor carriers are both instrumnents of interstate commerce. it is my understanding that an amendment will be offered on s. 1204 that would retain. federal regulations governing motorcycle se emissions. those supporting this amendment would argue that motorcycles are sold in more than one state and that compliance with varying state regulations is costly. but it is important to point out that federal interest is inherent. in either point.  is their a distinction made between motorcycles and any other product with a multistate market. if an exemption: is made for motorcycles. then the floodgates will be open to exempt other products such as lawnmowers and garbage trucks and the premise for the administrations budget. that se control is a state or local concern. would. be destroyed.
i think that is a splendid place. but i do  want anybody walking out of here. or i do  want any newspaper reporters to say this is a magnificent solution that is going to settle all problems. we will review it. we are always open to reviewing anything.
. we will vote today on the ftcs used car rule. this vote is historic because it is the first exercise of the legislative veto over an ftc ruling. but also it s. ignals. perhaps more importantly. a measure of the senates commitment to consumer protection. the free market is the most efficient mechanism kn for allocating goods and services. the efficacy of the free market depends upon informed consumers. in the used car market. however. buyers are  very kledgeable about autos they consider purchasing. the two major problems pinpointed by used car buyers are a dealers oral misrepresentation about a cars me. chanical condition at the time of sale and the lack of information about warranty coverage or misrepresentations about a dealers responsibility to repair a car. to address these problems. the ftc has promulgated this modest. but effective rule requiring three types of disclosure by the dealer. first. it would mandate warranty disclosures. dealers would have to indicate whether a warranty is offeredand its extentor whether a car is sold "as is." second. the rule would provide some standard form disclosures. for example. warnings to consumers of the unenforceability of oral promises. third. it would require a limited disclosure of kn defects. dealers would be required to share with used car buyers only the information they have on an autos defects. the controversy surrounding this rule has centered on this third point. the rule explicity states that dealers are  required to inspect or discover defects. but its opponents have argued that dealers will be forced to conduct an inspection in order to avoid the chance of facing prohibitively expendive litigation costs and fines. let me reiterate that this assertion contradicts the letter of the rule. placing the burden of disclosure for kn defects on dealers makes sound ecoic sense. they have significant information on the cars put on the block for sale. over onehalf of used car dealers inventories come from auctions where the person selling the car must provide as complete information as possible about its condition. before buying a car. an automobile dealer has an excellent idea of its defects. a dealer does  want to be stung and will inspect before purchasing. in short. providing more information to used car buyers is  expensive to produce. thereby  putting an onerous burden on dealers. and allows for more informed purchase decisions. besides protecting consumers. this rule will also piotect used car dealers who operate in good faith. deceptive practices in the selling of used cars has tarnished the reputation of all dealers. even trustworthy ones. among the public and. to my way of thinking. constitutes unfair competition. finally. let me say that considering this resolution today is particularly timely. over the past 2 years. skyhigh interest rates have inhibited many americans from buying new automobiles and moved these consumers into the used car market. with more individuals in the market for used cars. there is a greater chance of wide. spread consumer fraud. more than ever. used car buyers need sufficient information with which to make an informed purchase. if the senate upholds this resolution of disapproval. we will abdicate our responsibility to give even modest protection to millions of auto buyers. i. therefore. must oppose this resolution of disapproval.e
. i would like to inquire into the impact the prohibition against certain forms of federal assistance for property within the coastal barrier resource system would have on otherwise legitimate. federally assisted projects which may benefit property opted into the system under this amendment. for example. could this procedure be used to block a road or sewer line to be constructed with federal assistance.
the one change that was agreed to was to increase. for highway projects only. from 10 to 25 percent. the -price differential needed before foreign materials. rather than american. could .be used on. a project. all the other provisions of existing law. including the administrative interpretations consistent with current law. were to remain undisturbed. exemptions from the buyamerica requirement for projects costing less than $500.000 are to be continued. the requirement that products used must be substantially all from articles. materials. and supplies made in the united states is retained in the conference agreement. the administrative interpretations of these provisions are  overturned by the conference agreement. do my colleagues agree that i have correctly described the conference agreement.
i wish to say to the senator from kansas that coming into the middle of this debate after the weekend gives one a horrible feeling that it is a long days journey into night. we were through this all last week. am i  correct in asking the distinguished senator from kansas that the senator from kansas and the majority leader have promised to those proponents of this legislation that in april the senator will give these folks who desire a repeal of the withholding on interest and dividends a vehicle and a vote.
the senator has a great vehicle to ride. i k the state he comes from. judging from the people who have flocked into my office. i was wondering who was tending the store. every single one of us have undergone the same thing. the federal employees just do  want future hires to come under this system.
. as i understand itand the senator from wyoming will correct me if i am wrongthis was a deal to which we agree. as i understand what the chairman of the foreign relations committee said. we entered into an agreement. maybe we did  get the best part of the agreement. but it was an agreement. as i understand it. if i am wrong. i should like to be corrected. it seems to me that if we try to unravel that agreement because after 10 years have .gone by it turns out unsatisfactoryand how unsatisfactory it is. i do  kbut if we come to believe that it is unsatisfactory. it seems to me that the soviet union or anybody else who enters into an agreement with uswould have great diffi-* culty putting much trust or faith in us when we negotiate a deal. this. it seems to me. has ramifications that go into all our relations with the soviet unionsalt i. salt ii. start. whatever you call it. those are agreements. if we can just walk the cat back every time it has  worked out completely to our satisfationl. then i think we will be in a very unfortunate position. i did  hear all the debate. and 1 k something about the details. but i do  believe this is a matter of walking into our grave. either. i understand what the senator from wyoming is saying. i serve on the intelligence committee with him. and one gives that committee finer service or more careful thought than he does. but i am deeply concerned about the point the majority leader has raised about where we go from here. if this is the kind of action we undertake.
. as the author of the original senate version of section 11 of h.r. 3103. 1 wish to discuss the effect of the revised language which is presently before the senate as section 10 of h.r. 4957. my colleagues will recall that when i last addressed this matter during consideration of this bill on october 25. 1983. i pointed out that the language reflected a unanimous vote of the committee on environment and public works. my colleagues agreed that the language endorsed by the committee was consistent with the senates urstanding of the conference agreement reached with the house during consideration of the surface transportation assistance act of 1982. s* blahw - p werned. the reach of the oaw ameaft g entdaued be 9e"ed only indeed. par to the oeageuleaod sotdon of tes. thw federal eatose which impleaestod the law eameistently reflooted the eonegatelnal latent that wi tale exoptten of steel. ll products used in highway projects were deemed exempt from the coverage. as a result of thte deemaber 1989 congressional action. however. the federal highway administreaton issued a final rule that ed "eotdon 165 of the sta of 1988 reinfeeed congressional ittent that buy amenea should be applied to steel product. bectton iu. however. also specifically cites cement products as covered for the first time." other than these two products. the rwa deternined that congress did  specifically direct a change in policy. in october of last year. the senate agreed by a vote of 65 to 86 to support the committeeapproved buy amerloa language in h.r. 8108. since then. there has been extended discussion with the house in an effort to resolve the buy america issue. the present language reflects a renewed understanding on the part of both bodies of the scope of coverage of the law. the revised language specifically removes cement from the products that are covered by the buy america provision of the staa of 1989. additionally. the section would preclude states from including cement in stateimposed buy america restrictions or otherwise adopting requirements that would be in conflict with the exceptions specified in section 165(b) of the staa of 1982. do my colleagues agree.
we are  entering the most active period of the highway construction season. it is extremely important for the department of transportation to move quickly to issue regulations which take into account the change in the buy america provision embodied in this legislation. namely. the removal of cement from the buy america requirements. do my colleagues agree.
the 1978 "buy amerlea" statute included an exemption from domestic content requirements for federal highway projects costing less than $500.000. when the provision was amended in 1983. it was the understanding of senate conferees that the $500.000 project threshold would be maintained. however. the law as passed does  include the provision. in october 1988. the senate agreed to language in an amendment to h.r. 8108 which restores this threshold provision. in order for the surface transportation assistance act of 1983 to conform more fully to the senate conferees understanding of the 1983 conference agreement and to the correction approved in h.r. 8108. the $500.000 project threshold should be reinstated. this provision can help to reduce administrative burdens and eliminate delays in carrying out important highway and transit projects and is particulary significant to small project grantees which traditionally make small purchases. at the earliest opportunity. it is my intention to offer legislation to further amend the staa of 1982 to reinstate the threshold provision to exempt small projects from the "buy america" requirements. do my colleagues agree that this adjustment is advisable.
. i commend the senator from michigan for his leadership in addressing the problems of latchkey children. the need for afterschool care can be denied. thirtytwo million children under the age of 18 have mothers who work. many of those children go home day after day to an empty house. however. i unfortunately can at this time support the senator from michigan. the mathscience bill is  the vehicle for his amendment. it is extremely important that this bill be expedited. each amendment that is considered decreases the chances that s. 1285 will become law. i feel strongly that amendments. evenly friendly onces. must  be accepted at this time. it is my understanding that if this amendment is approved. there are 20 other amendments waiting in the wings to be brought forwardeach involving additional spending and which will result in a possible veto if a vote is ever reached on the bill. since the majority leader has assured us that the legislation will come up in july if a time agreement can be reachedwhich appears quite certaini shall vote to table.
. i have maintained for some time that import protection for the domestic automobile industry is longer needed because of the harm to the consumer and the distortion caused to the international trading system. one would assume that voluntary restraints by the japanese or. their car sales here were indeed helping the u.s. auto industry to revive and become more competitive. albeit at the expense of the consumer. however. a recent study by a brookings institutloh ecoist has concluded that the voluntary restraints have helped the japanese auto makers more than the american producers. the ecoist. robert. w. crandall. has determined that major japanese auto companies made more money from 4 years of limited sales than american producers the quotas were designed to help. in fact. japanese companies increased their earnings by about $2 billion annually because of higher prices they charged. for their cars sold here. while detroit car makers earned about $1.42 billion in extra sales. mr. crandalls study which i submit for the record documents the exorbitant costs to consumersabout $4.3 billion last yearbecause of increased prices of both american and japanese cars. we are  examining the benefit of 4 years of protection for the domestic automobile industry and debating controversial domestic content legislation or continued protection. this study demands our careful review and attention. i request that mr. crandalls report. "import quotas and the automobile industry: the costs of protectionism." be included in the record at this point. the report follows:
i thought of that question. i thought the keenminded senator from arizona might raise that point. it seems to me that at the end of 10 yearsafter all we are sending out the signaleither those libraries would have to be carried themselves through admission or that portion of the library devoted to the museumlike functions would have to be vastly reduced. in other words. the federal government is just going to get out of that business. we have wrestled with the kennedy center for many. many years and ever since i have been on the committee for some 7 years the kennedy center. the parking garage. the leaking roof have been before us. we seen to always relent and come lip with the money. so i will just have to finesse in answer to that specific question and hope that the fear. if you would. that something drastic might happen would encourage the existing seven libraries to get hustling. and some of the libraries are far more museumlike than others. for example. the hoover library i have  visited it. but it is my understanding that it is primarily a research center. hyde park is much the same. whereas the johnson library. as i understand it. is much more of a museumlike edifice than archival.
. i strongly support the federal aid highway act of 1984 and want to commend senators symms and stafford for their diligent efforts in shaping this important legislation. in december 1982. congress made a bargain with everyone in america who drives an automobile. we passed landmark legislationthe surface transportation assistance actwhich nearly doubled the gasoline tax. from 4 to 9 cents per gallon. we took this bold step because we recognized that something had to be done to stop the alarming deterioration of our nations roads and bridges. by increasing the federal investment in highway and bridge repair. we have begun to reverse this trend. however. we can keep our part of this bargain with american motorists unless construction ar~d repair dollars from the highway trust fund are made available to the states in a dependable manner. congress has encountered repeated difficulty in enacting legislation to approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate which enable the department of transportation to release these funds to the states. the full apportionment of interstate system construction funds for fiscal year 1984 has  been delayed for almost a full year due to disagreements over special interest projects and other issues. this delay has depleted the highway funds available for obligation by the states and threatens the ability of the federalaid highway program. prompt approval of s. 2527 will keep highw4y construction dollars flowing and enable the states to continue the orderly planning of highway and bridge projects. this legislation also includes a number of important provisions designed to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. chief among these is section 105. which permits the secretary of transportation to administratively apportion interstate construction funds and thus avoid future protracted delays in the ice and isce approval. the longterm effectiveness of our highway program could well depend upon the approval of this provision. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this vital legislation.
. i recognize the senators point. and i recognize the hour. i will have to concede that his point is valid. it has been a matter of deep concern to me. the senator from idaho ks this. we were looking fo- a vehicle to attach this amendment. we are caught in a very. very difficult situation. i k that the point of the senator is right. i am  going to press it. i hope that when we returnthis thing is  going to go awaywe will consider it further. i urge the more thoughtful consideration of the chairman of the committee on this matter. recognizing the point he has raised. i reluctantly concede to it and will withdraw my amendment.
 to consult with the congress before taking any actions which would be inconsistent with our obligations under the treaty and to report to congress on the status of programs which could have an impact on our obligations and commitments under the treaty. while it may  be possible to pass this resolution during the few days of this session which remain. it is my hope that by introducing this resolution  i am providing a vehicle to focus attention and discussion in the coming months. i am prepared to offer this same or similar legislation in the next congress. at which time i will hope to see it enactld. i believe this is a valuable instrument for preserving the amb regime. and i hope my colleagues will join me in the resolution.
i am  sure that an amendment this aftern. that follows. . but i take mr. wallop. i suggest to my friend it that the senators answer is that he that one of the obligations of leaderis  aware of any specific situation ship is to try to anticipate events. where this has taken place. which experience in the rest of gov-
. i urge sup- degree of continuity in each states if you go up under the needs formula. port for the formula as sent forward program. that it would be truly uncon- we are going to modify the increase so by this committee. scionable to have a precipitous decline you do  go up over 20 percent. to
. i am pleased to join senator gorton in sponsoring this legislation to revive the motivating spirit behind the highway beautification act of 1965. as anyone who uses federal interstate and primary roadways ks. that act has failed to accomplish the goal set forth in its title. miles and miles of our highways continue to be cluttered with billboards that assault the vision and block the landscape. beautification may have been the intent of the 1965 act. but over the years its many loopholes have allowed the construction of thousands of huge. unsightly billboards. ironically. the first highway beautification act has almost halted the fight to end the pollution of our highways by new billboards. despite the $203 million the federal government has spent on outdoor advertising control since 1965. the billboard industry continues to add new signs18.000 in 1983 alone. currently the law requires that these companies receive compensation for signs removed. according to a formula by which the federal government must pay three quarters of the total amount. since appropriations for this purpose have dwindled in the last few years. state governments attempting to clean up the scenery along their roadways have been stymied. the legislation we are introducing today addresses this and other problems of the 1965 act by giving new streigth to highway beautification laws. it bans construction of. new billboards on federalaid highways and returns control of existing billboards to the states. the federal cashcompensation requirement is eliminated under this act. allowing the beautification efforts of state governments to move forward. to further protect the scenic beauty of our roadways. this bill prohibits the cutting of trees to increase the visibility of billboards. currently legal under federal law. this practice has destroyed thousands of trees in a number of states. and clearly demonstrates that the priorities of outdoor advertising control have been subverted in favor of the visual degradation of our highways. in response to the general accounting office recommendations that the department of transportation establish stronger policy enforcement. this act also requires the secretary to report to congress on an annual basis as to how the states are complying with the act. it also calls for the secretary to encourage the use of alternatives to billboards. such as official information signs bearings the logos or the names of businesses located on or near highways. the latter type of signs have proven very successful in states that have taken the lead in highway beautification. and i believe strongly that it is time for the rest of the nation to follow their example. advertising has intruded upon the scenic beauty -of americas highways for too long. it is time to put teeth into the ideal of highway beautification. this act will do just that and i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.@
i think everything he is proposing is excellent. i just want to ask. as i understood the provisions. if the secretary of transportation found that an international airport is  meeting the standards that she felt was required. we would offer technical assistance to that airport to meet the standards. does the secretary have the capability and manpower and finances to meet that requirement. in other words. it would seem to me that if we set up a standard where we say we are going to help them but we can. just due to shortage of people-
the reference to cases which involve the transport of hazardous substances to a facility meeting the requirements of the solid waste disposal act raises two important issues. first. the presidents rejection of a proposed onsite remedial action would  trigger this provision unless such proposed action was consistent with the national contingency plan. is that correct.
i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleagues. senators kassebaum and danforth. as a cosponsor of s. 2401. which would outlaw guns that are  readily detectable as a firearm by the standard security equipment used at u.s. airports. this legislation will buy the time to close a dangerous gap that modem techogy has opened between our ability to manufacture firearms and our ability to detect them. gun manufacturers are  able to produce metallic. or plastic firearms that could slip undetected through the metal detectors and xray machines in use at most airports. while the faa and the customs service are actively working to develop screening devices that could detect this new generation of firearms. it may be as long as 2 years before they are available for use. in the meantime. law prevents the manufacture. import. or marketing of metallic guns in the united states. our fear. of course. is that a terrorist or a madman will take advantage of this loophole to carry a weapon onboard a passenger plane. the legislation is simple and clear. it would make it unlawful for any person to manufacture. distribute. or import into the united states any firearm that the secretary of the treasury. in consultation with the administrator of the faa. determines is  readily detectable as a firearm by the standard security equipment commonly in use at airports in the united states. the intent of the bill is  to control guns. it is to deny terrorists a new weapon. the law would  impinge in the slightest on traditional metal guns. even plastic guns would be permissible provided they are modified so that they would be detectable by standard security equipment. a wide variety of distinguished organizations concerned about terrorism have endorsed this legislation. among them are: the air transport association. the fraternal order of police. the airline pilots association. the federal law enforcement officers association. and the u.s. conference of mayors. techogy has opened a gap in our antiterrorism laws that must be closed before tragedy occurs. we all k too well what terrible harm a terrorist can inflict with a loaded pistol. that is why i call on my colleagues to support this legislation and to act quickly.o
what the amendment of the senator from mississippi is doing is excluding those concrete companies which are small and have but one silo and. therefore. are  able to set aside what is u.s. cement in one silo and what is a mixture of u.s. and imported cement in the other silo. they are barred. they can compete on these contracts. here is a letter from consolidated ready mix concrete. in providence. this protectionist language would  just affect highway projects. many ready mixes have but one silo in which to store their cement. if forced to differentiate between foreign and u.s. cement many could  afford the cost of aher silo or the overlapping bookkeeping complications and might be forced to discontinue the use of foreign cement for government projects as well and thus lose out on contracts for other competitive projects. so. . i ask unanimous consent that copies of these letters be printed in the record.
well. i certainly would  be for that mandate. i have some reservations about the secretary of defenses drawing up master plans to combat drug trafficking. that is  his expertise. in drawing up this plan. is he to consult with or does he have access to the drug enforcement officials. the coast guard officials. are they consultants in this plan.
i wish to say to the senator from kansas that coming into the middle of this debate after the weekend gives one a horrible feeling that it is a long days journey into night. we were through this all last week. am i  correct in asking the distinguished senator from kansas that the senator from kansas and the majority leader have promised to those proponents of this legislation that in april the senator will give these folks who desire a repeal of the withholding on interest and dividends a vehicle and a vote.
the senator has a great vehicle to ride. i k the state he comes from. judging from the people who have flocked into my office. i was wondering who was tending the store. every single one of us have undergone the same thing. the federal employees just do  want future hires to come under this system.
. as i understand itand the senator from wyoming will correct me if i am wrongthis was a deal to which we agree. as i understand what the chairman of the foreign relations committee said. we entered into an agreement. maybe we did  get the best part of the agreement. but it was an agreement. as i understand it. if i am wrong. i should like to be corrected. it seems to me that if we try to unravel that agreement because after 10 years have .gone by it turns out unsatisfactoryand how unsatisfactory it is. i do  kbut if we come to believe that it is unsatisfactory. it seems to me that the soviet union or anybody else who enters into an agreement with uswould have great diffi-* culty putting much trust or faith in us when we negotiate a deal. this. it seems to me. has ramifications that go into all our relations with the soviet unionsalt i. salt ii. start. whatever you call it. those are agreements. if we can just walk the cat back every time it has  worked out completely to our satisfationl. then i think we will be in a very unfortunate position. i did  hear all the debate. and 1 k something about the details. but i do  believe this is a matter of walking into our grave. either. i understand what the senator from wyoming is saying. i serve on the intelligence committee with him. and one gives that committee finer service or more careful thought than he does. but i am deeply concerned about the point the majority leader has raised about where we go from here. if this is the kind of action we undertake.
. as the author of the original senate version of section 11 of h.r. 3103. 1 wish to discuss the effect of the revised language which is presently before the senate as section 10 of h.r. 4957. my colleagues will recall that when i last addressed this matter during consideration of this bill on october 25. 1983. i pointed out that the language reflected a unanimous vote of the committee on environment and public works. my colleagues agreed that the language endorsed by the committee was consistent with the senates urstanding of the conference agreement reached with the house during consideration of the surface transportation assistance act of 1982. s* blahw - p werned. the reach of the oaw ameaft g entdaued be 9e"ed only indeed. par to the oeageuleaod sotdon of tes. thw federal eatose which impleaestod the law eameistently reflooted the eonegatelnal latent that wi tale exoptten of steel. ll products used in highway projects were deemed exempt from the coverage. as a result of thte deemaber 1989 congressional action. however. the federal highway administreaton issued a final rule that ed "eotdon 165 of the sta of 1988 reinfeeed congressional ittent that buy amenea should be applied to steel product. bectton iu. however. also specifically cites cement products as covered for the first time." other than these two products. the rwa deternined that congress did  specifically direct a change in policy. in october of last year. the senate agreed by a vote of 65 to 86 to support the committeeapproved buy amerloa language in h.r. 8108. since then. there has been extended discussion with the house in an effort to resolve the buy america issue. the present language reflects a renewed understanding on the part of both bodies of the scope of coverage of the law. the revised language specifically removes cement from the products that are covered by the buy america provision of the staa of 1989. additionally. the section would preclude states from including cement in stateimposed buy america restrictions or otherwise adopting requirements that would be in conflict with the exceptions specified in section 165(b) of the staa of 1982. do my colleagues agree.
we are  entering the most active period of the highway construction season. it is extremely important for the department of transportation to move quickly to issue regulations which take into account the change in the buy america provision embodied in this legislation. namely. the removal of cement from the buy america requirements. do my colleagues agree.
the 1978 "buy amerlea" statute included an exemption from domestic content requirements for federal highway projects costing less than $500.000. when the provision was amended in 1983. it was the understanding of senate conferees that the $500.000 project threshold would be maintained. however. the law as passed does  include the provision. in october 1988. the senate agreed to language in an amendment to h.r. 8108 which restores this threshold provision. in order for the surface transportation assistance act of 1983 to conform more fully to the senate conferees understanding of the 1983 conference agreement and to the correction approved in h.r. 8108. the $500.000 project threshold should be reinstated. this provision can help to reduce administrative burdens and eliminate delays in carrying out important highway and transit projects and is particulary significant to small project grantees which traditionally make small purchases. at the earliest opportunity. it is my intention to offer legislation to further amend the staa of 1982 to reinstate the threshold provision to exempt small projects from the "buy america" requirements. do my colleagues agree that this adjustment is advisable.
. i commend the senator from michigan for his leadership in addressing the problems of latchkey children. the need for afterschool care can be denied. thirtytwo million children under the age of 18 have mothers who work. many of those children go home day after day to an empty house. however. i unfortunately can at this time support the senator from michigan. the mathscience bill is  the vehicle for his amendment. it is extremely important that this bill be expedited. each amendment that is considered decreases the chances that s. 1285 will become law. i feel strongly that amendments. evenly friendly onces. must  be accepted at this time. it is my understanding that if this amendment is approved. there are 20 other amendments waiting in the wings to be brought forwardeach involving additional spending and which will result in a possible veto if a vote is ever reached on the bill. since the majority leader has assured us that the legislation will come up in july if a time agreement can be reachedwhich appears quite certaini shall vote to table.
. i have maintained for some time that import protection for the domestic automobile industry is longer needed because of the harm to the consumer and the distortion caused to the international trading system. one would assume that voluntary restraints by the japanese or. their car sales here were indeed helping the u.s. auto industry to revive and become more competitive. albeit at the expense of the consumer. however. a recent study by a brookings institutloh ecoist has concluded that the voluntary restraints have helped the japanese auto makers more than the american producers. the ecoist. robert. w. crandall. has determined that major japanese auto companies made more money from 4 years of limited sales than american producers the quotas were designed to help. in fact. japanese companies increased their earnings by about $2 billion annually because of higher prices they charged. for their cars sold here. while detroit car makers earned about $1.42 billion in extra sales. mr. crandalls study which i submit for the record documents the exorbitant costs to consumersabout $4.3 billion last yearbecause of increased prices of both american and japanese cars. we are  examining the benefit of 4 years of protection for the domestic automobile industry and debating controversial domestic content legislation or continued protection. this study demands our careful review and attention. i request that mr. crandalls report. "import quotas and the automobile industry: the costs of protectionism." be included in the record at this point. the report follows:
i thought of that question. i thought the keenminded senator from arizona might raise that point. it seems to me that at the end of 10 yearsafter all we are sending out the signaleither those libraries would have to be carried themselves through admission or that portion of the library devoted to the museumlike functions would have to be vastly reduced. in other words. the federal government is just going to get out of that business. we have wrestled with the kennedy center for many. many years and ever since i have been on the committee for some 7 years the kennedy center. the parking garage. the leaking roof have been before us. we seen to always relent and come lip with the money. so i will just have to finesse in answer to that specific question and hope that the fear. if you would. that something drastic might happen would encourage the existing seven libraries to get hustling. and some of the libraries are far more museumlike than others. for example. the hoover library i have  visited it. but it is my understanding that it is primarily a research center. hyde park is much the same. whereas the johnson library. as i understand it. is much more of a museumlike edifice than archival.
. i strongly support the federal aid highway act of 1984 and want to commend senators symms and stafford for their diligent efforts in shaping this important legislation. in december 1982. congress made a bargain with everyone in america who drives an automobile. we passed landmark legislationthe surface transportation assistance actwhich nearly doubled the gasoline tax. from 4 to 9 cents per gallon. we took this bold step because we recognized that something had to be done to stop the alarming deterioration of our nations roads and bridges. by increasing the federal investment in highway and bridge repair. we have begun to reverse this trend. however. we can keep our part of this bargain with american motorists unless construction ar~d repair dollars from the highway trust fund are made available to the states in a dependable manner. congress has encountered repeated difficulty in enacting legislation to approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate which enable the department of transportation to release these funds to the states. the full apportionment of interstate system construction funds for fiscal year 1984 has  been delayed for almost a full year due to disagreements over special interest projects and other issues. this delay has depleted the highway funds available for obligation by the states and threatens the ability of the federalaid highway program. prompt approval of s. 2527 will keep highw4y construction dollars flowing and enable the states to continue the orderly planning of highway and bridge projects. this legislation also includes a number of important provisions designed to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. chief among these is section 105. which permits the secretary of transportation to administratively apportion interstate construction funds and thus avoid future protracted delays in the ice and isce approval. the longterm effectiveness of our highway program could well depend upon the approval of this provision. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this vital legislation.
. i recognize the senators point. and i recognize the hour. i will have to concede that his point is valid. it has been a matter of deep concern to me. the senator from idaho ks this. we were looking fo- a vehicle to attach this amendment. we are caught in a very. very difficult situation. i k that the point of the senator is right. i am  going to press it. i hope that when we returnthis thing is  going to go awaywe will consider it further. i urge the more thoughtful consideration of the chairman of the committee on this matter. recognizing the point he has raised. i reluctantly concede to it and will withdraw my amendment.
 to consult with the congress before taking any actions which would be inconsistent with our obligations under the treaty and to report to congress on the status of programs which could have an impact on our obligations and commitments under the treaty. while it may  be possible to pass this resolution during the few days of this session which remain. it is my hope that by introducing this resolution  i am providing a vehicle to focus attention and discussion in the coming months. i am prepared to offer this same or similar legislation in the next congress. at which time i will hope to see it enactld. i believe this is a valuable instrument for preserving the amb regime. and i hope my colleagues will join me in the resolution.
i am  sure that an amendment this aftern. that follows. . but i take mr. wallop. i suggest to my friend it that the senators answer is that he that one of the obligations of leaderis  aware of any specific situation ship is to try to anticipate events. where this has taken place. which experience in the rest of gov-
. i urge sup- degree of continuity in each states if you go up under the needs formula. port for the formula as sent forward program. that it would be truly uncon- we are going to modify the increase so by this committee. scionable to have a precipitous decline you do  go up over 20 percent. to
. i am pleased to join senator gorton in sponsoring this legislation to revive the motivating spirit behind the highway beautification act of 1965. as anyone who uses federal interstate and primary roadways ks. that act has failed to accomplish the goal set forth in its title. miles and miles of our highways continue to be cluttered with billboards that assault the vision and block the landscape. beautification may have been the intent of the 1965 act. but over the years its many loopholes have allowed the construction of thousands of huge. unsightly billboards. ironically. the first highway beautification act has almost halted the fight to end the pollution of our highways by new billboards. despite the $203 million the federal government has spent on outdoor advertising control since 1965. the billboard industry continues to add new signs18.000 in 1983 alone. currently the law requires that these companies receive compensation for signs removed. according to a formula by which the federal government must pay three quarters of the total amount. since appropriations for this purpose have dwindled in the last few years. state governments attempting to clean up the scenery along their roadways have been stymied. the legislation we are introducing today addresses this and other problems of the 1965 act by giving new streigth to highway beautification laws. it bans construction of. new billboards on federalaid highways and returns control of existing billboards to the states. the federal cashcompensation requirement is eliminated under this act. allowing the beautification efforts of state governments to move forward. to further protect the scenic beauty of our roadways. this bill prohibits the cutting of trees to increase the visibility of billboards. currently legal under federal law. this practice has destroyed thousands of trees in a number of states. and clearly demonstrates that the priorities of outdoor advertising control have been subverted in favor of the visual degradation of our highways. in response to the general accounting office recommendations that the department of transportation establish stronger policy enforcement. this act also requires the secretary to report to congress on an annual basis as to how the states are complying with the act. it also calls for the secretary to encourage the use of alternatives to billboards. such as official information signs bearings the logos or the names of businesses located on or near highways. the latter type of signs have proven very successful in states that have taken the lead in highway beautification. and i believe strongly that it is time for the rest of the nation to follow their example. advertising has intruded upon the scenic beauty -of americas highways for too long. it is time to put teeth into the ideal of highway beautification. this act will do just that and i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting it.@
i think everything he is proposing is excellent. i just want to ask. as i understood the provisions. if the secretary of transportation found that an international airport is  meeting the standards that she felt was required. we would offer technical assistance to that airport to meet the standards. does the secretary have the capability and manpower and finances to meet that requirement. in other words. it would seem to me that if we set up a standard where we say we are going to help them but we can. just due to shortage of people-
the reference to cases which involve the transport of hazardous substances to a facility meeting the requirements of the solid waste disposal act raises two important issues. first. the presidents rejection of a proposed onsite remedial action would  trigger this provision unless such proposed action was consistent with the national contingency plan. is that correct.
i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleagues. senators kassebaum and danforth. as a cosponsor of s. 2401. which would outlaw guns that are  readily detectable as a firearm by the standard security equipment used at u.s. airports. this legislation will buy the time to close a dangerous gap that modem techogy has opened between our ability to manufacture firearms and our ability to detect them. gun manufacturers are  able to produce metallic. or plastic firearms that could slip undetected through the metal detectors and xray machines in use at most airports. while the faa and the customs service are actively working to develop screening devices that could detect this new generation of firearms. it may be as long as 2 years before they are available for use. in the meantime. law prevents the manufacture. import. or marketing of metallic guns in the united states. our fear. of course. is that a terrorist or a madman will take advantage of this loophole to carry a weapon onboard a passenger plane. the legislation is simple and clear. it would make it unlawful for any person to manufacture. distribute. or import into the united states any firearm that the secretary of the treasury. in consultation with the administrator of the faa. determines is  readily detectable as a firearm by the standard security equipment commonly in use at airports in the united states. the intent of the bill is  to control guns. it is to deny terrorists a new weapon. the law would  impinge in the slightest on traditional metal guns. even plastic guns would be permissible provided they are modified so that they would be detectable by standard security equipment. a wide variety of distinguished organizations concerned about terrorism have endorsed this legislation. among them are: the air transport association. the fraternal order of police. the airline pilots association. the federal law enforcement officers association. and the u.s. conference of mayors. techogy has opened a gap in our antiterrorism laws that must be closed before tragedy occurs. we all k too well what terrible harm a terrorist can inflict with a loaded pistol. that is why i call on my colleagues to support this legislation and to act quickly.o
what the amendment of the senator from mississippi is doing is excluding those concrete companies which are small and have but one silo and. therefore. are  able to set aside what is u.s. cement in one silo and what is a mixture of u.s. and imported cement in the other silo. they are barred. they can compete on these contracts. here is a letter from consolidated ready mix concrete. in providence. this protectionist language would  just affect highway projects. many ready mixes have but one silo in which to store their cement. if forced to differentiate between foreign and u.s. cement many could  afford the cost of aher silo or the overlapping bookkeeping complications and might be forced to discontinue the use of foreign cement for government projects as well and thus lose out on contracts for other competitive projects. so. . i ask unanimous consent that copies of these letters be printed in the record.
well. i certainly would  be for that mandate. i have some reservations about the secretary of defenses drawing up master plans to combat drug trafficking. that is  his expertise. in drawing up this plan. is he to consult with or does he have access to the drug enforcement officials. the coast guard officials. are they consultants in this plan.
. i am pleased to join with senator stafford today in introducing legislation to reauthorize the federalaid highway program. the measure we are introducing is identical to the bill that was debated in the senate last year and approved unanimously on september 24. 1986. although conferees worked diligently to resolve differences in the bills passed by the senate and house of representatives. the legislation did  receive final action prior to the adjournment of the 99th congress. as a result. many states have nearly exhausted their federal highway funds. and construction and repair projects on roads and bridges throughout the country have been halted. many more will be delayed unless congress acts promptly to reauthorize the program. during the past 4 years. roads and bridges throughout the country have benefited from the increased funding made possible by the 1982 highway act. but much more remains to be done to improve the quality of our highways and bridges. the legislation we are introducing today will extend the federal highway program through 1990. it also contains several changes to increase the flexibility of the states in spending the federal funds. in order for the program to respond better to state and local highway priorities. the state of rhode island has embarked upon a vigorous road improvement program which has resulted in safer highways and thousands of jobs in the construction industry. the voters have shown strong support for this program by recently approving a $57 million state transportation bond issue to match the federal funds. jobs could be jeopardized and projects postponed if congress does  act swiftly to approve highway reauthorization legislation. it is my hope that the senate will act on this legislation without delay in order for the conference discussions to resume and the measure to be enacted as soon as possible.e
. i am pleased that the senate will soon be able to act on this legislation to reauthorize the federalaid highway program for the next 4 years. this measure remains one of the major pieces of unfinished business of the 99th congress. since the highway program technically expired last october. a number of construction and repair projects across the country have been halted. projects will be postponed and construction jobs jeopardized unless this legislation is approved swiftly. during the past 4 years highways across the country have benefited from the increased funding made possible by the 1982 highway act. which increased the gasoline tax by 5 cents per gallon. according to a recent report of the department of transportation. the steady deterioration of highways prior to 1982 has been halted. the funding authorized in this bill will continue to improve the quality of our transportation system. this legislation takes a thoughtful and realistic approach to the challenge of meeting our nations highway needs in an era of budgetary constraints at the fedearal level. it also enables us to look beyond construction of the interstate systemwhich is almost 98 percent completeto other highway needs. a number of changes are included in the bill to increase the spending flexibility of the states. making the program respond better to state and local highway priorities. while providing funds for completion of the interstate system. the bill will also assist states. like rhode island. that have completed their interstate segments. this legislation continues the policy of apportioning to every state a minimum of onehalf precent of the interstate construction funds. it also combines the interstate construction. interstate repair. and primary highway categories into a new interstateprimary category. this will enable those states whose interstate segments are completed to concentrate on other neglected routes. in addition. the bill provides increased flexibility for states which receive funds in the interstate substitution program. this program. enabling states to transfer unused interstate highway apportionments to alternative projects. is playing an important part in rhode islands longterm road improvement plan. this bill will enhance the program by expanding eligibility to any public road. rather than only those roads on the current federalaid system. and deleting the federal deadline for project approval. these modifications will help the states respond better to changing highway needs. the interstate substitution category will be further enhanced by a provision which i sponsored during the committee markup. to permit the use of these funds for bicycle projects. states are already permitted to use federal funds in the primary. secondary. and urban categories for bicycle projects. this provision will also give states the option of utilizing their interstate substitution funds for this purpose. this will further encourage the development of alternative transportation systems to reduce traffic congestion. promote energy conservation. and reduce auto pollution emissions. the state of rhode island has plans underway for the establishment of a bicycle path along the blackstone river. linking several cities in the thern part of the state. this provision will expand the funding options available to the state in carrying out this project. s. 387 also authorizes a new modified block grant program on a demonstration basis. up to 10 states will participate in this initiative. enabling them to administer the secondary. urban and offsystem bridge programs with greater flexibility. we must begin to look ahead to the structure of the highway program beyond the completion of the interstate system in 1990. it makes sense for us to begin testing the feasibility of turning over greater responsibility to state and local officials for the allocation of highway resources. rhode island gov. edward diprete has strongly supported the concept of an enhanced role for the states in administering the highway program. i believe this block grant initiative will be an important first step in demonstrating the advantages of giving more authority to the states. rhode island would be ideally suited to participate. and it is my hope that the secretary will give rhode island priority consideration when the program gets underway. i hope this legislation can be approved swiftly so that the conference discussions can go forward and the funds released to the states as soon as possible.
that is right. therefore. . when we go to conference we are restricted to the house version. i think that is a very important point. with the amendment of the senator from vermont. then there is some flexibility in our conference with the house and in arranging. for example. that a state can use the highway funds for the purchase of billboards. if that is the way to go. in other words. clearly we have to go to conference and we went through this last year because this will be one of the conference items. in the conference it gives us the flexibility to proceed with the point that the highway trust funds can be used for the purchase. that is a point that we feel strongly about. we ought to give the states the flexibility if they so choose to do it. maybe the whole amendment of the senator from vermont will  be adopted in conference. that is a possibility. it is probably a likelihood because the house feels the other way. but to go to a conference in which all you have is the house version is conference at all.
 will veto it. and we will be right back. what will happen is the highway program of the united states will have been delayed 2 or 3 more months. these are the crucial times. i do  k about the highway departments from the other states who are represented here. but the highway department in my state is out of money. they do  have money. they are dependent on passage of. this bill. so it is. i believe. across the nation. next i would like to touch on what it does to our trade relationships. the largest area we are importing cement from is canada. with canada we are. currently engaged in trade negotiations of extreme importance to our two nations. let me just cite one figure. there is more trade between .the united states. of america and the province of ontario than there is befebruary 3. .1987 tween any nation in the world and the united states except for canada and the united states. think of that. we do more business with ontario than we do with any country in the world except for the country of canada. so what we are doing is throwing a monkey wrench into those negotiations. and those are fasttrack negotiations in which we hope to lower all tariffs between our nations. certainly this kind of provision would reignite an unfortunate little trade war that has flared up on shingles. lumber. and they are retaliating with computer parts. it has risen into a very unattractive proceeding that i think we all wish had never taken place.
i would like to reply to the query of the distinguished senator from new york about that truck provision. that truck provision somehow slipped through. and it is regrettable. but  we have our eyes wide open on this one. it is one thing. the old expression "fool me once. shame on you. fool me twice. shame on me." in this particular instance it is clear. and we can act with kledge and forewarning. as opposed to the truck thing that i do  think we were all familiar with at the time. that is excuse. it is regrettable that it happened. but  let us  let this happen. let us  make two mistakes in the same day in dealing with the canadians. canada buys american coal. they buy our computers. they buy our aircraft. they buy our tractors. and they buy our medical supplies. and as i say they are an extremely important trading partner with the united states. let us  get in an embroilment with them on this buy american provision which. if it went in effect. passed here. and we went to conference. we would really have a problem at that time. so. . that our members will listen carefully to this. i will  ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record this statement from mrs. dole. to excerpt briefly from her letter. mrs. dole said in connection with this piece of legislation: we strenuously oppose the expansion of the current provision to include cement and clinker and believe that congress acted wisely when cement was removed from the coverage of the "buy america" act provision in 1982.
. i am pleased to join with senator murkowski today as cosponsor of s. 764. a bill to amend the airport and airways improvement act of 1982. this bill is designed to be a tough response to foreign unfair trade practices. it will make foreign participation in federallyfunded airport projects contingent upon reciprocal opportunities for american firms abroad. during the 100th congress we will be examining many proposals for reducing our mounting trade deficit and improving the competitive position of the united states in world markets. clearly we can expect american industry to compete successfully unless it is allowed to complete on a level playing field. in many cases it is  that american products are inferior to those made abroadit is simply that we are  permitted to sell them. opening foreign markets to our products is one of the most important things we can do to improve trade and and save american jobs. the whole point of trade is to shop around the world for the best available products at the best available prices. we in the united states recognize that free and open markets best serve our national interests. and we expect the same attitude from other countries. i have grown impatient with those countries that expect to have excess to american markets for their products while making their own markets inaccessible to american goods. it is time to respond with a clear signal that we will  tolerate this imbalance. for the last several years the administration has worked to achieve a better balance in our bilateral trade relations with japan. yet market access to our products in japan is still far from reality. and the american people and the congress have reached a point of frustration. the only way we are going to persuade japan to remove obstacles to united states entry to its markets is to demonstrate the consequences for keeping those markets closed. the $8 billion kansai international airport project is the first of one many large public works projects that will be built in japan in the next decade. in spite of the fact that japan conducts over $2 billion of construction business in the united states each year. american firms are effectively prohibited from participating in the japanese market. american firms are extremely interested in bidding on the kansai project and other projects but. unfortunately. little progress has been made in opening kansai to international bid and tender. it is time for the united states to send a strong signal that we will  stand by and allow japanese firms to compete for business in the united states while the doors to open trade remain closed in japan. the bill i join in introducing today will make foreign participation in over $25 billion in u.s. airport and airway improvements over the next 10 years contingent upon reciprocal opportunities for american companies overseas. foreign companies will be allowed to participate in these projects unless the u.s. trade representative determines that a foreign country does  permit american firms to participate in procurement and bidding on major public works projects. exceptions from this provision are permitted in cases in which the exclusion of a bidder would raise the project cost by more than 20 percent. or if a product or service is  sufficiently available in the united states. the united states can longer afford to be a free and open trading partner in the face of closed markets abroad. although we can turn the situation around with one piece of legislation. this bill represents a significant stepit demonstrates our resolve to improve american competitiveness by allowing america to compete. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this initiative.
. it is my belief that the senate produced an excellent highway bill especially in that it enhanced the flexibility of the states in assigning spending priorities. any priority projects that a member inserted for his or her state. had to be paid for by that states regular highway allocation. the house bill was quite different in that it included an unprecedented number of demonstration projects inserted by different members for their states with the provision that such projects would be paid for from highway trust funds outside of the states regular allocation. the special projects authorized in this bill would increase federal highway authorizations by $1.4 billion over the next 5 years. the ultimate exposure of the highway trust fund will be even greater. however. since the projected total cost of these projects is over $8 billionfar above what is being authorized. of the amount authorized. $900 million is held outside the obligation ceiling governing each states apportionment. this amounts to a raid on the trust fund. to which motorists throughout the country contribute. in order to pay for these special interest projects. during the meetings of the senate conferees. i vigorously protested our agreeing to the acceptance of any of the house projects funded in such a manner. however the senate conferees voted to accept some projects and that is what we have in this conference report. because there is much that is good in the highway bill and because there was option left to improve it further. i signed the conference report and will vote for the bill on the senate floor. however. i remain deeply concerned by the budgetary crisis facing our country. to solve this requires some reduction in spending. i am opposed to cutting programs such as education. medicare and medicaid. woman and infant care programs. school lunches. and other programs so vital to the poor. the young. and the old. if there arises aher chance to reduce the extraordinary highway expenditures in this bill i will support such an effort.
. i thank the distinguished leader. i would just make one point to the senator from maine. this resolution does  say "pass both bodies in 7 days." it says to report out a bill from the senate. that the senate committees meet. and i think the senator from maine would agree with me that. as far as the highway portion goes. we have discussed the highway beautification. speed limit. allocations. all those factors. in that particular committee that both he and i and the distinguished senator from new york serve on. and that we could come out with our portion of the bill within a day and without controversy. because we k the issues. the conference with the house is a separate matter. that is where the problems were. but we can come up with our portion quickly. i thank the distinguished majority leader.
. the same thing would apply to real estate also. i understand what is being said here but i understand from the senator from utah that once this moratorium is in effect. even though presumably for 10 or 11 months. hing will happen. i have great faith in the assurance of the chairman of the banking committee that he will get right to this. but we k the way human nature is. we have had here the highway bill that was vetoed. with the threat that there will be highway bill for the remainder of the year. if we can get something done with that urgency. what will we do with this. there are many who say we should  do anything about the banks. there are powerful forces out there. which the senator from wisconsin ks.
. i just think that the senate talks about these programs. and i suppose every senator in this chamber. every member of the senate. has spoken about the need to move ahead. but we can do it unless we are willing to do it. this is the vehicle to do it with. it says we are going to provide the money for it. i just hope that my colleagues will approve this amendment.
we also have the problem talking about the change that was made in the veterans administration on paying the travel. i would like to touch on that while i have the distinguished senator from alaska from the veterans affairs committee here. what i am concerned with is the travel pay that was eliminated for those traveling i believe at what they said were commuting distances for whatever that is and it affects those veterans from my state who go from a point. say. in west lynn up to the roxbury. ma. hospital. which could be some 60 or 70 miles. and under the current va rules that were promulgated last year they do  receive any mileage for that. i would appreciate it. when the senator is considering the legislation before his committee. if he would be good egh to inform me. i will stay in touch with him because there are some differences between a couple of bills that are in there and i would appreciate it if the senator would give me an opportunity before he brings this out to discuss this with him. because. as i say. there are some features in the bill i have that are  in the senators bill and i hopewe could give some consideration to those. i have some legislation pending. is the senator familiar with that. and could he give me comments.
i think we crossed that bridge when we got into the whole business of the amnesty. a decision was made. a decision was made to treat certain illegal aliens differently. and we made it.  there is a good deal of objection. i am sure one ks better than the man who really succeeded in putting this bill together. and having it pass. the junior senator from wyoming. he was constantly confronted. why are you treating these people differently. and we treated them differently because these folks had established themselves in the country. were working. had their families here in many instances. and we said we are starting fresh. those that were here have such roots in our country that we are saying all right. we are  going to jerk you out of your homes. out of your jobs. away from your families. and send you back. we are going to let you stay. that was a tough decision. but we made it. and we made it by 69 votes to 30 in this body. i do  think we thought that in doing that we were going to split up families. . you might say. why should  the legal alien object. i am sure he objects. the point i make is that the legal alien who has come here without his family has consciously made a decision to leave his family behind. he knew the rules when he came here. the others came in illegallywe k thatand they raised a family. the children have been here. they have been in this lower world. as it were. where one can let themselves be identified for fear of being thrown out. i just do  think we want to ship away children and spouses because of the effect of this law. which i do  think many of us realized was going to end up in splitting up families.
. i am a cosponsor of s. 465. legislation -to ban the manufacture. sale. importation. or possession of plastic handguns. in my view. the bill  before the senatethe air passenger protection actwould be a timely and fitting vehicle for discussion of the hazards posed by plastic guns. so i -am disappointed that senator .metzenbaum found it necessary to withdraw his amendment. the alnrming rise in international terrorism in recent years has focused increased attention on the need for improed airport security measures. there has also been a growing concern about techogical developments which -make possible the manufacture of firearms which may  be detectable by security devices currently in use. until we have in place the techogy to provide for the detection of weapons made with metal materials. i believe we must take steps to prevent such weapons from being made or imported. this bill would ban those firearms which are  readily detectable by metal detection and xray systems -commonly used at airports and other security checkpoints in the united states. efforts are underway by the federal aviation administration. the -ustoms service. -and private industry to develop more advanced detection instruments. but it could be years before these are in use. in the meantime. the development of weapons made with plastic .or other metal materials -could continue. the u.s. secret service testified in favor of s. 465 in a hearing held earlier this 7ear by the subcommittee on the constitution. according to that testimony. in 1986. 240 dangerous weapons were identified by screening efforts at the white house. of which 774 were handguns. in secret service screening activities away from the white house from october 1986 to june 1987. 198 handguns were detected. there are people who possess handguns who disregard the laws and -regulations governing use of such weapon that is why detection systems are in place in airports and in many public buildings. to put into the hands of these individuals a handgun which is more difficult to detect certainly jeopardizes the safety and security of all of us. although the senate will  take up this measure today i remain hopeful that action can be taken soon. we have an opportunity through the passage of this legislation to act before a terrible tragedy occurs. rather than after the fact. i hope this legislation can be brought before the senate at the earliest possible time.*
. i am a cosponsor of s. 465. legislation to ban the manufacture. sale. importation. or possession of plastic handguns. i am pleased that the senate today has an opportunity to discuss the hazards posed by plastic guns. the alarming rise in international terrorism in recent years has focused increased attention on the need for improved airport security measures. there has also been a growing concern about techogical developments which make possible the manufacture of firearms which may  be detectable by security devices currently in use. until we have in place the techogy to provide for the detection of weapons made with metal materials. i believe we must take steps to prevent- such weapons from being manufactured. imported. or sold. this amendment would ban those firearms which are  readily detectable by metal detection and xray systems commonly used at airports and other security checkpoints in the united states. efforts are under way by the federal aviation administration. the customs service and private industry to develop more advanced detection instruments. but it could be years before these are in use. in the meantime. the development of weapons made with plastic or other mental materials could continue. the u.s. secret service testified in favor of s. 465 in a hearing held earlier this year by the subcommittee on the constitution. according to that testimony. in 1986. 240 dangerous weapons were identified by screening efforts at the white house. of which 74 were handguns. in secret service screening activities away from the white house from october 1986 to june 1987. 198 handguns were detected. there are people who possess handguns who disregard the laws and regulations governing use of such weapons. that is why detection systems are in place in airports and in many public buildings. to put into the hands of these individuals a handgun which is more difficult to detect certainly jeopardizes the safety and security of all of us. this legislation is endorsed by a number of distinguished organizations. twelve organizations. both labor and management. representing over 400.000 police officers are united in their support of this legislation. in addition to law enforcement organizations many other groups also support this legislation. here is a partial list of the supporters of this legislation: airline pilots association. air transport association. national sheriffs association. fraternal order of police. u.s. conference of mayors. and national troopers coalition. we have an opportunity through the passage of this legislation to act before a terrible tragedy occurs. rather than after the fact. i urge my colleagues to join me in voting  to table.
just before moving passage of this. . i would say this. i appreciate a great deal. the leaders of this. the floor leaders of this measure accepting this because i think it clears up a possible gap that was in the bill unintentionally. at the same time i do  want anyoody to think that if this is acceptable and approved by the senate that it necessarily would ensure my support for the overall measure. i am debating that. deciding just how i will vote. so i do  want to travel under any false colors. i hope you accept it but it does  ensure my support for the measure.
therefore. in thal particular situation. a finding woul be made and the president. dependinj on what subjective appraisal he put ox the secrecy of this mission. woul either have to tell the entire member ship of both parties. that is. both in telligence committees. or he woub have to telli wish we had a genera word other than gang of eight or gang of four. i call them group of eight.
i want to thank my might be. "and out again safely." i able colleague from wyoming for that that is the occasion i am discussing. poth very helpful discourse on that bill. i just believe it is very rarely going to to t  let me. if i might. summarize come up. indeed. if this is abused. you where we stand. under this legislation e will say. "these committees. the  the. president of the united states distinguished senator from oklahoma. i must immediately. in advance. actual- the distinguished senior senator from this ly. of any finding. inform the entire maine and their opposite numbers. are intelligence committee of what he in- can come forward with remedial legis- by t tends to do. the intelligence commit. lation and they can report to us  it wi tee on the senate side and the intelli- that the situation has worked very sat- the gence committee on the house side. isfactorily. as they have said in the year he must let them k. there are past. but it is  working. and the that secrets here. it is a limited secret. if president is abusing this. and so is the equt you would. he tells it. - head of the cia. we are  going to port but then it says. it gives him a mi put up with it any longer and this is thre escape hatch. and it says that if he de- what we propose. we do  give him "wh termines. listen to this language. it is 10 days. we do  give him a 48hour sp essential to meet extraordinary cir- delay. every single covert activity or feet. cunmstances affecting vital interests of special activity. -if such they want to tl the united states. then in that situa- name it. has to have prior ice and if the do  the president is subject to penalties of the law." seems to me that is the way we it to proceed. that is the reason i the 10day proposal in there. ie presiding officer. is e furtherdebate on the amendt. r. cohen. if i might respond fly. i agree with many of the.senaarguments. after going through f jiese steps we tried to insert in legislation to accommodate the ident. it is  taken as a means nposing ponderous burdens upon administration. course. the senator from rhode nd does  change this. he. still ires ification ..to.. eight. and er certain circumstances requires fication to four. he would simply. nd the ification from 48 hours ) days. i find that somewhat ironic e the senate intelligence commitreally tried to take into account current situation with the admintion. r example. the proponents of this icular amendment talk about the lerous mechanism that would be 0sed upon the administration by legislation. xe fact of the matter is the presis own directive provides for deng ice to congress if the presidetermines it is necessary in *r to meet rare. extraordinary cirstances. is is the presidents own language.. are simply incorporating the presis own language into this legislawe have done hing more. re are additional ponderous tens here that are imposed upon administration other than what are already required to do on r own. ue president hras said. "action out findings. retroactive findwe will put them in writing. we ify the committees in adue only difference here is that we use a definite time limitation as used to what the administration id like to have. suppose we can suggest many hyieticals. what if the israelis were ell the president. "we will help sell arms to iran. provided you do tell four members of congress". vould suggest. . time to complete a covert activity but rather to give him the opportunity to come before congress and give us some opportunity to comment.
. i believe that congress and the general public have reassessed the importance of the coast guard.  only does the coast guard play a critical role in providing aids to navigation and in rescuing troubled mariners. but also they are instrumental in interdicting drug traffickers invading our country. accordingly it has been recommended by the administration that the coast guard receive full funding so it can accomplish its many missions. the amendment being offered by my distinguished colleague from new jersey. senator lautenberg. will require the coast guard to take $4.8 million from operating expenses to reopen the nine search and rescue stations which have just recently been closed. for the people of block island. this is very good news. this means that during inclement weather. a block islander sufffering a medical emergency will be able to rely on the coast guard for transportation to the mainland. ships experiencing trouble in the vicinity of block island will  have to wait 45 minutes or longer for a coast guard cutter to arrive from newport or point judith. i am delighted that this amendment. which mirrors a similar amendment in the house appropriations bill. will reopen the block island coast guard station and other stations. this amendment will make a difference in the lives of those people who rely on the coast guard for safe passage on our coastal waters. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of this amendment.
. there is a freight train moving here. i am  going to get in front of it. but i do hope and i count on those members of the armed services committee who are present to carefully examine this and to take into consideration the views of the department of defense and those who are going to wrestle with this matter in the future. so i hope they bear those thoughts in mind.
. i recently joined in reintroducing the general aviation accident liability standards act of 1989. s. 640. a bill to establish federal standards of liability for injury or property damage resulting from a general aviation accident. the language in this bill is exactly the same as s. 473 from the 100th congress as it was favorably reported by the commerce committee. our legislation addresses the most significant factors which have brought about the decline of the general aviation industry: increased product liability exposure and its cost to aircraft manufacturers. it applies only to aircraft that carry fewer than 20 passengers and are  engaged in regularly scheduled passenger service. the bill would make three important changes in liability laws. first. it creates one set of federal standards governing accident liability in the general aviation industry. the statebystate discrepancies in liability laws present the industry with a set of varying and unpredictable standards. this bill will provide uniformity and predictability. second. it establishes a general rule of comparative responsibility. combined with joint and several liability. among the parties to a lawsuit resulting from a general aviation accident. comparative responsibility attributed to the claimants conduct will reduce damages awarded to the claimant in an amount proportionate to his or her responsibility for the damages. third. the bill establishes a 20year statute of repose on manufacturer liability. which starts on the date of delivery. general aviation manufacturers currently remain liable for an aircraft regardless of its age. these changes are essential to the future of the general aviation in the united states. without them. we will continue to see a decline in the general aviation industry. and equally importanta decline in jobs and trade. cessna aircraft. for example. has suspended production of all pistonengine aircraft through the 1987 model year. likewise. piper aircraft has stated it may move to production of single pistonengine aircraft only. and beech aircraft has scaled back its production significantly. over the last decade. unemployment in the domestic industry has risen to 65 percent. i am sure all i of my colleagues are well aware of the ripple effect those job losses have on the ecoies of the communities that are the homes of general aviation manufacturers. the decline of this industry also has contributed greatly to the trade deficit. the source of so much concern. in 1981. general aviation exports contributed an annual multimillion dollar surplus to our nations balance of trade. since that year. however. the u.s. general aviation industry has suffered significant trade deficits. we all k that our general aviation industry is suffering because of the competition it faces from foreign manufacturers who do  carry this bjurden. we k that the confusing patchwork of state laws governing liability is at the root of the problem. with this bill. we can free our general aviation manufacturers from this load. without restricting the rights of those people who have legitimate liability claims. i urge my colleagues to join us in support of this long overdue reform of the general aviation liability system..
. i think the term "skered" is good for perhaps a chuckle here. but i think to appy that to a statement by the secretary of defense of our country who wrote the chairman of the foreign relations committee stating that we was concerned about the bahamas. about the situation there. etheless in his judgment this certification of disapproval. or put it the other way. the certification of approval. should be granted. that is what i am drawing on. that is my belief. and i an  sure what the senator was referring to when he said we have had letters to iega. this letter that i was referred to was the letter from the commandant of the coast guard to a member of this senate. pointing out the cooperation that the coast guard had received. one will question the distinguished senators admiration for the coast guard and his support for their activities. they are the people on the front lines. the people who are trying to seize these drugs. and the coast guards position has beenand hing has changed: hing has come up to indicate their position is otherwisethat the cooperation they are receiving and the advantage they have operating in the bahamian wars and air space are extremely important. we delegate the coast guard to do its job. and in my judgment. they have done a good job. and this is their position. which has  changed.
. this variety of duties is what the coast guard calls multimission. i call it pretty amazing. i would like to commend and congratulate the coast guard for its excellent work over the years. as admiral yost. commandant of the coast guard. has put it: "the coast guard remains the best buy the taxpayer has." by mr. simon: s.j. res. 127. joint resolution designating labor day weekend. september 24. 1989. as "national drive for life weekend": to the committee on the judiciary.
. this doesnt look like a giveaway to me. on the contrary. it looks like a pretty good deal. for those of us who are troubled by our large trade deficit with the japaneseabout $50 billionthis deal should come as good news. in the course of development and production of the fsx. this agreement stands to eliminate 5 percent of this trade deficit. for those who have called upon japan to assume a greater share of the defense burden. this agreement should be heartening. japan has committed $6.2 billion for this program. the decision to build a new class of fighter aircraft. in order to fulfill the mission of sealane surveillance and antishipping. is an important part of an overall trend in japan to spend more on its defense and on cooperation with its military allies. this trend should be encouraged. the techogy transfer involved in fsx codevelopment has also been a sticking point. many critics of this deal fear that: first. sensitive. stateoftheart f16 techogy will be transferred to the japanese. allowing them to advance significantly in the civilian aviation industry. second. the japanese will sell the fsx to third countries for profit. or worse yet. they will sell it illegally to our adversaries. third. the techogy the united states gets in return has real value to us. and fourth. the commerce department has  given its input as to whether this deal will hurt u.s. industrial competitiveness. it is essential to point out that the f16 techogy that would be transferred to the japanese does  represent the leading edge of united states fighter aircraft techogy. according to former secretary of defense frank carlucci. this techogy is over 10 years old. furthermore. the united states is developing its own advanced tactical fighter [atfi capability.  a speck of which is part of the fsx deal.  is this transfer of f16 techo. gy without precedent. belgium. denmark. the netherlands. way. israel. and turkey have all coproduced portions of the f16. there is much disagreement over whether japan could use this techogy to develop a commercial aviation industry. but the fact remains that one has proven that fighter jet techogy is applicable to widebodied commercial planes. and what astounds me as i listen to the debate on this point. is that the aerospace industry in this country supports the pcx agreement.  merely general dynamics. which will codevelop the plane with mitsubishi heavy industries. but also boeing and mcdonnell douglas and rockwell and raytheon. all of these companies are for the deal. the very industry that opponents of the fsx agreement want to protect does  want to be protected. if japan wants to develop a commercial aviation industry. it will. i have doubt that japan can do it. but our companies do  seem daunted by this prospect. and with good reason. the american aeorspace industry leads the world. and has what it takes to stay on the cutting edge. critics of this deal argue that the commerce department did  have the opportunity to gauge the deals potential effect on u.s. industrial competitiveness. again. i think these critics are overzealous. after all. it was secretary of commerce mosbacher who urged that the bush administration take a fresh look at this deal. which had been negotiated by the reagan administration. at his urging. greater restrictions were placed on the flow of commnercially applicable american techogy to japan. at his urging. stronger assurances were obtained that the united states would garner a 40percent share in the production of the fsx.  secretary mosbacher supports the deal. and urges us to do the same. i for one am prepared to take his word for it that the commerce department had significant input in the final fsx agreement. to conclude. i urge my colleagues to look clearly and realistically at the fsx agreement with japan. if the congress disapproves this venture. the united states stands to lose: jobs. funds that would decrease our trade deficit. access to useful techogy. control over future use of the fsx aircraft. a say in transmission of fsx techogy to third countries. the willingness of japan to contribute to the common defense. and the good will of an important ally. i hope other senators will take a good look at this deal. and realize it is in the best interest of the united states.
. i ask unanimous consent that the following documents be placed in the record following my statement: the text of the bill. a summary of the national highway fatality and injury reduction act of 1989. a list of the organizations which support this legislation. summaries of: the ecoic cost to society of motor vehicle accidents. 1986 addendum. nhtsa. a model for estimating the ecoic savings from increased safety belt use. nhtsa. a model for estimating the ecoic savings from increased motorcycle helmet use. nhtsa. the following studies: the cost of treating head injured unhelmeted motocyclists in texas. impact of the reenactment of motorcycle helmet law in louisiana. prospective study of the effect of safety belts on morbidity and health care costs in motorvehicle accidents. elizabeth mueller orsay. et al. the public cost of motorcycle trauma. frederick p. rivara. et al. the following letters: dr. william h. hollinshead. medical director. divisions of family health. department of health. state of rhode island. edward j. walsh. chief coordinator. govers office on highway safety. department of transportation. state of rhode island. jane mattson. jane mattson associates. inc. m.j. hannigan. commissioner. department of california highway patrol. the executive summary of "a statewide survey of public opinion on the proposed mandatory safety belt legislation." testimony presented to the california senate transportation committee.
i say to the senator from maine i think this is an excellent amendment. it makes clear exactly where we stand. also. in reykjavlk certain fact proposals were agreed to. but that does  mean that can never be changed. after all. we are going to have further negotiations with the soviets and perhaps the counting rules at reyklavik will be changed. as the senator from maine has suggested. so i believe this is an excellent amendment. we are  committing ourselves to go down the road to spend $70 billion or to buy 132 aircraft or to buy any aircraft beyond the three additional b2s. am i  correct.
. on may 16. i introduced s. 1007. the national highway fatality and injury reduction act of 1989. what that legislation did was to encourage the states to pass safety belt and motorcycle helmet use laws. i have long been concerned about the slaughter that takes place on our highways. fortythree thousand americans every year die in automobile accidents. those are the ones that are killed on our highways in the united states. 43.000 a year. that does  deal at all with all the extremely serious injuries that are also incurred on our highways from motorcycle and automobile accidents. there are millions. that  only has a staggering cost in personal grief to the individuals and to their families. but also a staggering cost in dollars to our nation. i read with great interest ann landers column in the july 31. 1989 edition of the washington post. which contained two letters that state with great eloquence why s. 1007 should be passed. i hope my colleagues will take time to read them. one of the letters is from the mother of a young man. a strong young man. active. who was riding his motorcycle without a helmet. severely injured. spinal cord injury. and is left  only physically impaired but mentally impaired as well. the other letter is from a woman whose husband was wearing his helmet when he was involved in a serious motorcycle accident and is living because he was wearing that equipment. i ask unanimous consent that the column be printed in the record along with my statemient.
. on may 16. i introduced s. 1007. the national highway fatality and injury reduction act of 1989. what that legislation did was to encourage the states to pass safety belt and motorcycle helmet use laws. i have long been concerned about the slaughter that takes place on our highways. fortythree thousand americans every year die in automobile accidents. those are the ones that are killed on our highways in the united states. 43.000 a year. that does  deal at all with all the extremely serious injuries that are also incurred on our highways from motorcycle and automobile accidents. there are millions. that  only has a staggering cost in personal grief to the individuals and to their families. but also a staggering cost in dollars to our nation. i read with great interest ann landers column in the july 31. 1989 edition of the washington post. which contained two letters that state with great eloquence why s. 1007 should be passed. i hope my colleagues will take time to read them. one of the letters is from the mother of a young man. a strong young man. active. who was riding .his motorcycle without a helmet. severely injured. spinal cord injury. and is left  only physically impaired but mentally impaired as well. the other letter. is from a woman whose husband was wearing his helmet when he was involved in a serious motorcycle accident and is living because he was wearing that equipment. i ask unanimous consent that the column be printed in the record along with my statement.
i think he is directing the study to the proper group and furthermore. he is dealing with a problem that is a real one. i am familiar in our state with relatively small bus companies. privately owned. that go intercity. and they are deeply coricerned. the techogy. i think. is going to astonish us with the developments that take place in the next several years. i can help but believe that we are going to see the brains of america turn toward. developing ramps and lifts that are far less expensive than those currently existing. and far more efficient. but i do think we have to give them a chance. therefore. i think the amendment of the senator from south carolina is a good one. i believe that we want these privately owned bus companies to continue. they are providing the service. and with the decline of rail service in so many instances and certainly with the expense that is going to come about with adr transportation. in many instances. or air transportation at all. we are dependent upon these intercity buses. so we want them to succeed. and we also want to them to be able to provide for the handicapped in a sensible fashion. i think it is a good amendment and hope it is accepted.
ial rank award in 1987. it is also appropriate that the legislative branch recognizes mr. morgans service because he has worked closely with us. and has been involved in major highway legislation for many years. his kledge. experience. and willingness to help have been appreci. ated very much. during his career at fiiwa. mr. morgan was responsible for initiating or implementing numerous programs including certification acceptance. regulations implementing the interstate transfer program. value engineering. a pavement management program. the motor carrier safety assistance program. and the strategic highway research program. to name just a few. i want to take this opportunity to thank mr. morgan for his years of excellent public service. and to wish him well in whatever endeavors he chooses to undertake.
. i would like to take a moment to discuss an historic property owned by the coast guard that is very important to the people of my home state: the southeast light. built in 1873. the southeast light is one of the most recognizable symbols of rhode island. and its image is often used to represent the state. the light is being threatened by the erosion of the bluff on which it stands. however. and needs to be moved back from the cliff edge. in the last congress and again this year. i introduced legislation to transfer ownership of the southeast light from the coast guard to the block island southeast lighthouse foundation. and to provide for matching funds for the relocation of the light. i had seriously considered proposing an amendment to the transportation appropriations bill that would provide matching funds to relocate the light. after review of the bill. it became clear that such an amendment would  be appropriate. the resources available for the department of transportation are limited. and i certainly do  wish to take muchneeded funds out of the already tight coast guard budget. instead. i hope to work with both coast guard and transportation officials and my senate colleagues to find an agreeable solution as soon as possible. i would prefer to have the authorizing legislation approved. and then work for the necessary funds. the measure is a priority of mine. and i intend to push hard for its passage and full funding. in addition. although earmarked funds may be available for the southeast light this year. i hope that the secretary of transportation will keep the light in mind should there be extra discretionary funds.
i would refer the senator to page 100 of the green volume. which i ice he has a copy of there. where there is a statement last ember 19 by the department of energy wherein they say: for 1995. we estimate the domestic vehicle manufacturers could achieve 32 to 33 miles per gallon for new passenger cars if they modified product plans to make maximum use of available techogy and returned to 1987 levels of vehicle size. performance. and luxury. so that is aclue. i am  saying the gospel is provided by the department of energy. but it is an interesting comment from a part of this very administration dealing with the issue we are concerned with here.
. i was extremely distressed to learn that. during television coverage of the super bowl a couple of sundays ago. nissan premiered an advertisement that seems to promote irresponsible driving. the nissan 300zx is first shown fleeing at high speed from a motorcycle. gaining velocity. the nissan eludes the bike whereupon a race car picks up the chase. the 300zx continues to accelerate. hurtling ever faster and faster. until it once again outguns its challenger. pursuit is engaged a final timethis time by a jet. still. the nissan revs higher and higher. until it pulls away from the plane. based on the number of revolutions per minute displayed on the tachometer. it is estimated the 300zx reaches a speed in excess of 150 miles per hour in the last seconds of the advertisement. nissan claims the commercial is merely a fantasy. try telling that to the families of the two virginia men who went out of control at high speed in a 1990 zx and collided with an oncoming truck. one can certainly appreciate the need for creative license by advertisers whose goal is to sell products. a problem arises. however. when television is used to promote  only a product. but. unintentionally. a mode of behavior that can result in tragedy. high speed automobile crashes are a major cause of death and injury on our highways. the message conveyed by nissans advertisement is unmistakable: driving at high speeds is an enjoyable experience. which can be achieved in this car. as a strong supporter of legislation to require greater automobile passenger safety. i firmly believe that the message of this commercial is one that manufacturers ought  be sending to consumers. the costs of reckless driving in lives and human suffering are tremendous. furthermore. the skyrocketing costs of the medical care necessitated by high speed accidents are increasingly being paid for by the taxpayer. this fact disturbs me greatly. to address this situation. i am sponsoring the national highway fatality and injury reduction act. s. 1007. legislation to encourage states to approve laws requiring the use of seat belts and motorcycle helmets. but government alone can  solve this problem. we must encourage a safety ethic among our citizens. advertisements like nissans only frustrate our efforts here in congress to focus greater attention on this issue. networks sell commercial air time during the super bowl at an emous premium. i am sure nissan invested great amounts of money. time. and effort into effectively bringing its car to the attention of a vast audience. but i would urge the company to find some other way to promote its product. today i have written to the chairman of nissan motors ltd. to express my dismay over this matter. the insurance institute for highway safety has done much to bring this matter to the publics attention. and along with several other groups. is also urging nissan to withdraw the ad. i ask that material provided to me by the institute appear in the rscord at this point.
i might just add that this amendment. frankly. would be even tougher than the existing law because it would encompass all vehicles that come onto the -base.  just those registered in the state. under the state implementation plans. the only way you can catch a vehicle is through its registration or requiring it once a year to have inspection and maintenance. so this is a .good. tough provision.
. the only question we had on this amendment which we think is a good amendment deals with the definition of "farmer." i think the senator from nebraska has clarified that. what he is thinking of is the family farmer where a large truck pulls up how often.  very often.
i have listened to the litany of problems that currently exist. the senator has just pointed out in his state. to comply with the attainment standards. they would have to shut down everything in the state. there could  be a car moved. yet. after saying all that. he thinks we ought to maintain that existing system i find that a little confusing. why stick with an existing system that is a total failure. by the senators own testimony. can the senator help me on that point.
we agree this is a good amendment. the purpose of the amendment is to make sure that diagtic equipment. the manuals. the techniques. are available to. in effect. the local gas stations so that they will be more convenient for the automobile owner. that the automobile owner will  have to trek off to some dealer 30 miles away in order to be able to correct problems that have arisen with his automobile. i hope that the distinguished offeror of the amendment. in his statements . would clarify some of the points that we previously went over so that this would be clear in the record. if he chooses to do that . it would be very helpful.
i think the objective is good. it think as the explanation is given clarifying some of the points it is a very worthwhile amendment. i think it will do two things. first. it will make the service more convenient and available to the consumer. and second. it will help achieve the objectives of this act in that the owner of the vehicle will thus seek to have his automobile repaired and at maximum efficiency and thus achieve the goals of the act. which is the reduction of pollution.
. i want to compliment the distinguished senior senator from delaware for his amendment. it goes right to the heart of one of our big problems. which is the older cars that remain on the road. they are the principal emitters. the statistics the senator gave are certainly startling. that a pre1980 car emits as much as eight post1980 automobiles. i commend him for coming forward with this. i hope it will work out. i am  sure just what the states can do. but this will encourage them to try to adopt some voluntary incentives to get the pre1980 automobiles off the road. and i think it is a good idea.
. the amendment is acceptable on this side. i -want to commend the senator from minnesota. he has given a lot of thought to these matters. particularly the urban mass transit problems. this is further evidence of his thoughtfulness.
. with passage of the oil pollution act of 1990. the environment in which shippers of oil. and onshore facilities which handle oil operations will change dramatically. longer will facilities such as alyeska in prince william sound be able to operate with a paper contingency plan. and little or equipment and training to back it up. vessels will longer be able to enter u.s. ports unless they have an approved contingency plan detailing how it will respond to an oilspill. likewise. the u.s. government will significantly improve its ability to respond to spills. by establishing 10 oilspill response teams in each of the coast guard districts. it has been almost a full year since the u.s. senate. voting 99 to 0. passed a comprehensive oispill prevention and response bill. since that time. we have been a witness to several major spills. most recently the spill in galveston. tx. recently we were jolted by live coverage of the mega borg. engulfed in flames and smoke. and threatening to assault the gulf of mexico with three times the amount of oil that spilled from the exxon valdez. in my home state of rhode island we recently dodged two bullets. one when the cruise ship bermuda star ran aground in buzzards bay. and 9 days later a potentially catastrophic grounding of a barge carrying crude oil only 3 miles from the site of the bermuda star incident. in all these cases. as with the world prodigy oilspill in narragansett bay of a year ago. luck and favorable weather conditions combined to prevent a major environmental catastrophe. we can afford to rely on luck any longer. which is why we are approving this legislation today. in the case of the mega borg. this spill occurred under near perfect conditions: calm seas. warm waters. and in an area which has some of the heaviest oil tanker traffic of any u.s. waters. it was far egh from shore58 milesbut  so far as to impede cleanup operations. even under these conditions. it took days.  hours. to mobilize the appropriate response equipment. if we have learned one thing about oilspills. it is that immediate response is essential to prevent widespread impacts. once the oil is dispersed over a wide area. the proverbial genie is out of the bottle and there is little. hope of getting it back in. on average. only about 10 percent of oil from a spill is ever recovered. that is why this bill places a heavy emphasis on prevention. most ably by requiring double hulls on all newly built tankers. and phasing out singlehulled ships over a 20year period. the legislation before us will provide for this immediate response. it will establish 10 oilspill response teams. i in each coast guard district. and provide for stockpiling of equipment such as skimmers and dispersants at strategic locations along our coasts. whereas current law does  require federal approval of contingency plans. our bill would require all major facilities handling oil to have a contingency plan approved by the coast guard. to prevent a repeat of the alyeska debacle in alaska. where the contingency plan was worth little more than the paper it was written on. the coast guard will be required to conduct periodic drills and inspections of facilities. vessels also will be required to have contingency plans detailing arrangements with contractors to respond to spills from the vessel this bill will prevent the type of confusion that occurred following the mega borg incident. by requiring the coast guard to assume command of any spill posing a "significant threat of a pollution hazard." if this bill had been law. the coast guard would have mobilized nearby equipment to contain the spill and fight the fire. and  have had to rely on a contractor to import equipment. from the netherlands. 5.000 miles away. this bill establishes a fund of at least $1 billion. financed by a 5cent per barrel fee on oil. to finance strike teams and oispill techogy research and development. and to compensate victims of oilspills. i am very pleased that we are  waiting for aher world prodigy. which next time may be carrying crude oil instead of home heating oil. and may occur in the midst of a winter storm. instead of on a sunny aftern. this legislation will help us prevent and respond more effectively to olispills and represents a major legislative achievement of this congress.
. i want to congratulate and thank my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new york. for his skillful guiding through the rocks and shoals of this measure. he has been a helmsman of incomparable patience and skill. so we congratulate him. as he has brought this ship to a safe haven.
. i am pleased to join today with my colleague from kansas in reintroducing the general aviation accident liability standards act. a bill to establish federal standards of liability for injury or property damage resulting from a general aviation accident. this bill is identical to last years s. 640. as reported favorably on a voice vote by the commerce committee. our legislation addresses one of the most significant factors that have brought about the decline of the general aviation industry: increased product liability exposure and its cost to aircraft manufacturers. today. manufacturers are spending considerable time and resources on defending lawsuitspiper aircraft estimates that they spend $250.000 per month just on defense costsinstead of developing or perfecting techogy. despite the fact that the number of fatal accidents in general aviation has plummeted to 1.49 per 100.000 flight hour flown. the amount of money spent on paid claims and outofpocket defense expenses has skyrocketed from about $24 million in 197 to roughly $209 million in 1985. let me repeat that particular fact: fatal accidents in general aviation have gone down and stayed down. yet claim and defense costs have shot up. rhat helfty cost burden has a heavy impact on the health of the general aviation industryand the thousands of jobs in that sector. sales of domestic aircraft have dropped sharply since the peak years in the late 1970s. as the commerce committee ed in its 1989 committee report: "this decline has affected virtually every manufacturer and is reflected in sales of all types of aircraft." cessna aircraft. piper aircraft. and beech aircraft are scaling back or halting production of some aircraft. and that has caused employment to drop precipitouslyby 65 percent over the past decade. i am sure that the ripple effect of such a drastic industry downswing on the ecoies of the industrys home communities is all too clear to my colleagues. neither is the effect of high liability costs evident only within the industry. these costs ultimately are borne by the consumer. and by our national ecoy. today. product liability costs. averaging $70.000 per new aircraft in 1985. have become the largest single factor in the price of a new single engine airplane. further. while 1981 general aviation exports contributed an annual multimillion dollar surplus to our nations balance of trade. in the past 10 years the u.s. general aviation industry has suffered significant trade deficits. that contributes to our national trade deficit. a source of much concern. the bill we are introducing today is meant to provide for some uniformity. and thus some certainty. in the ares of liability exposure for the general aviation industry. it is narrowly tailored to general aviation. and would apply only to aircraft that carry fewer than 20 passengers and are  engaged in regularly scheduled passenger service. under this measure. three important changes in liability law would be made. first. the act would create one set of federal standards governing accident liability in the general aviation industry. and limit the availability of punitive damages to those situations where the manufacturers conduct was proven to manifest conscious. flagrant indifference to safety. today. the variation in state liability laws presents general aviation manufacturers with a wide range of liability standards. and the unpredictability and uncertainty caused by the variation contribute to overall instability in the industry. with the adoption of a uniform standard. manufacturers will be better able to do longterm business planning. and spend more resources on the research and development of new. safe aircraft. second. the measure would adopt the rule of comparative responsibility for lawsuits resulting from a general aviation accident. comparative responsibility would ensure that the parties to the lawsuit each bear responsibility for their proportionate share of the damages. third. a 20year statute of response. to start on the date of delivery. would be established in manufacturer liability. general aviation manufacturers currently remain liable for an aircraft regardless of its age and whether or  it has been subject to modifications beyond the control of the manufacturer. these changes are essential to the future of the general aviation industry in the united states. without them. we will continue to see a decline in the general aviation industryand equally important. a decline in jobs and trade. we need to give manufacturers some relief. in the shape of one uniform standard. from the confusing patchwork of state liability laws if we are to help stabilize the industry and promote its competitiveness both at home and abroad. at the same time. we must ensure that the rights of those suffer injury in general aviation accidents are protected. in my view. this bill is a step toward that end. and i urge my colleagues to support it. by mr. deconcini (for himself. mr. thurmond. mr. hol-
. among the technical changes included in the committee amendment to s. 1204. is a provision which clarifies how state transportation funds may be used to mitigate wetland loss related to or affected by highway construction. the use of these funds for mitigation measures authorized under this bill requires compliance with all applicable federal laws. the language adopted in the committee amendment is consistent with the intent of the committee report (rept.  10271) which states that mitigation measures authorized under this bill are. at a minimum. those measures determined by the secretary of the army and the administrator of the environmental protection agency. in consultation with state and federal advisory agencies to be necessary to ensure compliance with the guidelines promulgated pursuant to section 404(b)(1) of the clean water act. further. while funding for wetland mitigation measures may be used in advance of the initiation of highway project construction. these mitigation efforts may  be used to circumvent the federal environmental requirements applicable to any specific highway project. in addition. in order to make such funds available in advance of specific highway construction activity. states must have a transportation planning process that requires that assessments relative to the environmental effects. the need. and the design of any particular project would be conducted independent of consideration of advance mitigation efforts.
under those conditions. it seems to me. that it is perfectly acceptable. and. as i understand it. they can take whatever the percentage. certainly a very modest percentage. of highway funds and use it for essentially summer employment for youngsters to go out and work along the roads. i think it is a fair deal. .
. first let me refer back to the disraeli situation. i am an admirer of disraeli. as are many here. one of the things i remember about disraeli. who as you all k was one of the great witnesses. great intelligentsia of great britain. whose wife many thought was  very intelligent. as a matter of fact. she admitted that she never could remember who came first. the greeks or the romans. they said to disraeli. how can you stand going home to this woman who was older than disraeli.  very attractive. and clearly  the brightest woman in england. he said when i dual with the greatest minds in europe all day long. i do  want to go home and have to dual with some genius. and indeed he did  have to with mrs. disraeli. i would like to just briefly touch on one more anecdote about disraeli. for which we seem to have plenty of time here tonight. a woman had the unique privilege in two successive evenings of sitting next to gladstone and sitting next to disraeli. so they asked herwhat a unique experience. i mean. who has ever sat next to the two most brilliant men in englandwhat was it like. she said after an evening of sitting next to gladstone at dinner. i came away believing that the most brilliant man in the british empire was gladstone. the following evening i sat next to disraeli. and i came away from that experience thinking that the most brilliant woman in the british empire was me. i would like to just encourage the distinguished senator from new york about this legislation. he seems to me to be a little gloomy. this is a wonderful bill we have. yes. it has been chipped away at. but very much modestly. this bill deals with $110 billion. and to suggest when you have $110 billion on the floor that people are  going to be trying to get their part. i think is disingenuous. but etheless. i believe that the essential part that the senator from new york has worked so hard on for so many years has been preserved. namely the flexibility that goes to the states for about 50 percent of this total program. the states still have that. yes. it has been chipped away at a little bit. but modestly. but the essential element that the senator from new york and the rest of us who have worked on this. the distinguished senator from th dakota. the senator from idaho. and myself and others. the senator from montana who is  here this evening at this time. who has worked so hard on itand i want to particularly pay tribute to the senator from new york who has been the leader of the band of us. this bill provides that 50 percent of the money can be used for what the states wish. if they want to use it for highways. fine. if they want to use it for mass transit for subways. for buses. that is up to the states. that is a tremendous achievement. the very name of the bill is the surface transportation efficiency act. it is  a highway bill. it is to move people and goods in the most efficient fashion that we can devise. that is what it is all about. so i do  think the senator from new york should feel discouraged. when you have this vast amount of money. yes. senators are going to be up getting their share for this or that or whatever it might be. but basically the form of the legislation has been preserved. so i think he should charge on. and feel satisfied. i do  k whether we are going to finish this tonight. frankly. if i had my druthers. we would put it over to tuesday. only working on this remaining byrd provision and consider the rest done. there are more amendments. we have taken care of the amendment that dealt with how to apportion the section of what we call the stp. the 150 percent. that was a long debate that took up most of the aftern negotiations with the administration. that has been settled. so the only thing left is what to do with the extra amountwhen you consider $110 billiona relatively small amount that senator byrd has discovered that we are  deciding how to apportion. i think if we bring that up tonight there would be incredible debate. we do  k the figures. we do  k what is there. i think that should come to our staffs. we have tomorrow that can be considered. monday. and then when we come in tuesday we can look at it and decide how to proceed. restricting the amendment solely to what we might call the byrd proportion. but to the senator from new york. i say you have done a wonderful job. you should be satisfied. happy. and pleased with what has been accomplished.
let me just explain. the funds are  deprived from you. the funds must be used for safety purposes. and i must say the interpretation of safety is pretty broad. for example. the funds can be used for railroad crossing improvements. the funds can be used for education. as the senator from wisconsin pointed out. as the law currently exists. wisconsin is required to spend money in a whole series of safety ways under the current law. those laws  will be changed. so. as a result. wisconsin will come out with less dedicated to .safety. even if they do  observe these provisions. than they would under the current law.
. i am saddened to report the recent death of roy r. jones who was a senior evaluator with the u.s. geheral accounting office [gao]. i was very fortunate to have recently worked with mr. jones on a study which my distinguished colleague. senator moynihan. and i requested gao to prepare for us. mr. jones work at gao has had a positive effect on many people both in and outside gao. he was instrumental in developing information that has both improved the efficiency and effectiveness of the government and led to legislation that has resulted in reduced pain. suffering. and death on the nations highways. during most of his 26year career with gao. mr. jones worked on motor vehicle and highway safety issues. several years ago. he directed a study on minimum drinking age laws which resuited in a report entitled "drinkingage laws: an evaluation syntheses of their impact on highway safety." the report was thorough and convincing. all states and the district of columbia have maintained 21yearold minimum drinking age laws. the national highway traffic safety administration estimates that the laws have reduced traffic fatalities involving drivers in the affected age groups by 13 percent. and have saved over 11.000 lives. in response to the request i mentioned earlier. mr. jones guided assessments of the research on safety belts and motorcycle helmets. the first report. "highway safety: interim report on safety belt and motorcycle helmet effectiveness" was issued in may of this year. a second report. "highway safety: motorcycle helmet laws save lives and reduce costs to society" was issued on july 29. 1991. less than a week after mr. jones death. the final report on safety belts will be completed early next year. these reports document the savings in deaths. injuries. and societal costs resulting from increased use of safety belts and motorcycle helmets and they have helped federal. state. and local officials make the legislative changes that will make our highways safer. during the past year. mr. jones briefed my staff and kept us informed about the progress of these reviews. he was a pleasure to work with. he impressed us with his dedication. kledge. fairness and willingness to listen. mr. jones used these characteristics to produce thorough. objective assessments. his presence will be missed. but his contributions and the good will he generated will be around for years to come.
. the other portions of this have been described. again. i want to stress the capability to switch funds into mass transit. i do  think many people realize this. that 100 percent. every single dollar of some states national highway system funds. can be transferred into mass transit if that state. is . in attainment with the clean air act and receives the approval of the secretary of transportation.. that is & very. very unusual feature. but it certainly fs one that will say to those states that are  in attainment under the clean air act. "here is something you can do. you can put it all into mass transit." i would just. like to conclude. i see my distinguished colleague on hs feet and i just want to conclude by saying that several things in herelike all of us. i have had. some features e have been working on particularly. i am very pleased that. we have some incentives to encourage the use of motorcycle helmets. there is quiestion there is an absolute direct cocrelation between motorcyclists. suffering severe head injuries and severe traumi without. helmets as opposed to those who wear their helmets. in my little state. we have 17 individuals in our state institutions in comassome have been there for as long as 17 yeamsas a resultt ot motorcycle acctdents.. and carrying them at a cost of. per individual. something close to $200.0001 a year. those ijuries might have been avoided and probably wuuld have been avoided if those individual motcyc ~ts had helmets. likewise we hawe funds in here to encourage. the use of seatbelts. there is a direct correlation. between the use of seatbelts and the reduction of injuries in automobiles. finally. we have had long battles about billboards. and on this floor when the senate considered the legislation the provision that i had in there to permit the states to amortize billboards was soundly defeated. regrettably. from my point- of view. however. in this particular legislation we provide for the construction or the designation of seenic byways the distinguished presidng officer. i am sure. has some lovely roads in his state which would qualify for being scenic byways. particularly charming sections of road that should be preserved and kept that way. under this legislation. we provide  only that. new billboards can be consttructed on those scenic byways. but 10 percent of the scenic byway money can be used to purchase these billboards to get rid of them forever. so i think hr future generations people are going to ride in these scenic byways and say. "thank goodness those individuals fn the congress did something to preserve these sections of road in 1991 when they. p2ssed that bill: i look for an expansion of this program in future years. so motorists car take these trips on these lovely roadsi have some in my staten all of us have some in our statewithout the offensive sight visual pollution. that is provided. by billboards. i thank the chair. and some people say "oh.. well. how are you going to. k where the next inn is.. how are you going to k where there is a. redaurant. we all k the answer to that is there are very discreet signs. designating fuel. food. or lodging. and if need be. they can. be a lttle more explicit than that. but certalnly they do  have to be these monstrous billboards. so i want to thank the chair. and again congratulate the two real leaders in this situation
. the surface transportation conference report -that is being considered today contains provisions that require the use of rubberized asphalt in portions of the roadways -that would be built with this -legislation. asphalt rubber pavement is our best bet to solve a significant environmental problem caused by the highway user. that problem is the accurulation of scrap tires in dumps all across the country.
. is as follows. by requiring that the locals put up something. it means that a more careful prioritization. or more careful attention to what should be built. is given. i have had the experience. as many have here. of being a gover. when we found out that a program was 9010. 90 percent federal. 10 percent local. there was a casualness involved. a feeling. oh. well. the federal government is paying for most of it. so what is the worry. we just passed the surface transportation bill at the end of last year. so it was a very short time ago that we passed this legislation of which the distinguished senator from new jersey was one of the key authors. so in connection with that legislation. we had what we thought was a very modest local share. 20 percent. there are many programs. as you k. which are way lessless federal contribution. 75 percent. 65 percent. and so forth. we thought this was fair. we thought it would accomplish two goals: one. the first goal that i mentioned. that it would cause the locals to pay careful attention to what they wanted to spend the money on. what was worthwhile since they had to come up with 20 percent. the second rationale for the 20 percent. if you want to call it match or contribution by the locals. was that it made the money go further. obviously. if you have the federal government working from a set lump sum and provide that for a project. they will pay 80 percent and the locals will pay 20 percent. that means this lump sum of money will be able to go further. putting it aher way. i think the senator from new jersey would readily concede that under his amendment the amount that will be built will be 20 percent less. in other words. we are very anxious to get on with these infrastructure improvements. and we need many of them. but under his program there will be 20 percent less built. in looking over the categories he has chosen. i think they are good categories. if i were doing what he proposes. i would support these two categories: namely. the congestion mitigation. which deals with the improvement of the air quality. and the second deals with surface transportation. i k the senator has carefully thought about these matters because these he selected out of a series i think of eight programs that we have under the surface transportation act. so my first question to the senator is as follows: is it his intention to extend this further. in other words. i think we would be on a slippery slope if we extended this say to the national highway system. are we setting some kind of a precedent here. is it the senators intention to restrict it to this. is it going to extend to interstate maintenance. for example. that would be my question to the senator from new jersey.
. first of all. i want to say that i think the federal highway administration has done the right thing in enforcing or attempting to enforce the law. and. by the way. there is enforcement yet under it. what they are doing is sending out some potential rules under it as they interpret the law. and they would give the states 2 or perhaps as many as 5 years to take down conforming boards. so i think they are correct in doing that. however. we have been over this many times in the past and i k what the situation is here on the floor of the senate as regards to this billboard situation. i must say. we made considerable progress under the surface transportation act of 1991 in providing that federal highway moneys can be used to take down conforming boards. and even under the interpretation of the senator from idaho. that money would still be available at the option of the senate. the difference is whether it is mandatory or whether it is optional. i would prefer it be mandatory. get these conforming boards down once and for all. but i k what the sentiment was in the conference. indeed i can only say the senator from idaho is accurate in his interpretation of what the belief was in the conference that we held. etheless. i applaud the federal highway administration for having the courage to stand up to the billboard lobby. but i think that the senator from idaho has given an accurate interpretation of what the belief was when we drafted the bill. so i do hope that the states will move ahead. every state has the option to go ahead and take down these conforming boards.
. might i ask aher question of the senator from idaho. as you k. this is a very tricky section. we have had a lot of experience with these sections referring back to the highway beautification section. again. following up on what the senator from florida said. there is question whatsoever under the amendment of the senator from idaho. his interpretation of it. that highway funds can be used to take down conforming billboards should the state so choose to use those funds.
 signed into law the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act of 1991.  kn as istea. that law represents a new approach to transportation and includes new programs and partnerships that will result in an efficient and high quality transportation system for our country. the coalition that came together to make istea possible produced a very good law. a delicate balance was achieved that addressed the needs of sparsely populated rural areas as well as densely populated urban areas. istea provides flexibility so that those parts of the country that are experiencing growth can meet their needs with new transit or highway facilities. similarly. with this flexibility. states that have older transportation facilities have. the ability to fix and maintain what they already have. an important part of the agreement that produced istea was providing a balance between the socalled do and donee states. the do states have historically contributed more revenues to the highway trust fund than they have received back from the program. the 1991 law included a new minimum allocation provision. the new law improves the return the do states receive from the highway program compared to the revenues they contribute to the highway trust fund. at the same time. congress recognized the importance of providing an adequate transportation program for the donee states as well. the transportation program provides significant national benefits and it is important that all states are provided a fair and equitable amount of money for an efficient transportation program. i believe the 1991 surface transportation act achieved this goal. for this reason. i will continue to support the decision reached by congress in the transportation law last year--that the minimum allocation funds should be outside the obligation ceiling.
that is agreed to. it is over with. i want to say i am opposed to that. i think just limiting it to new american cars is a mistake. i presume it is against gatt and also who ks what an american car is. what is the definition of an american car. i just wanted to go on record i am opposed to that. i am for the specter amendment as originally presented but  as amended by the senator from ohio. re s15321 amendment n0. aa6 (purpose: to amend the internal revenue code of 1966 to provide for infrastructure facilities bonds. and for other purposes) .
. i want to thank the distinguished majority leader. who. as i mentioned before. has been deeply involved with this right from the beginning. i k his state and the boat building industry in his state well. i k his concern for it. so his remarks and the remarks of our distinguished chairman are very satisfying and gratifying. 0 i would like to make one point. that there is a sense of urgency here. and so it is terribly important that the first vehicle which goes through here that we can attach this measure onto is one i am going to grab hold of because  is when all the boat shows are on. people want to k are they going to have to pay 10 percent additional for anything over $100.000 for any boat they buy. i believe we have to move as rapidly as possible. and so when the first vehicle comes through here that i believe we can grab hold of. i will grab hold of it. i appreciate the support of the distinguished leader. i will say one more thing. i k my colleague from florida wants to comment briefly on this. the distinguished republican leader would be on the floor because he has an interest in this.  with respect to boats. but with the private aircraft. which are also part of the socalled luxury tax. perhaps he will comment on that later.
madam president. we could  have gotten into a more complicated subject than the allocation formula. if you think agriculture subsidies and price controls and all that goes with the agriculture department are arcane and impossible to understand. it does  rival the formulas dealing with the transportation money. let me just say that the senator from florida. it seems to me. could  have brought up a more inappropriate subject than changing this formula at 6:30 on a wednesday evening. i would point out that the distinguished senator from florida is a member of the environment and public works committee. as such. he could have easily presented legislation to this effect. he could have brought it up for considerationhe is from the majority partyhave a hearing on it. burrow into it and debate it in the committee. and have it carefully thought out. but that was  done. and so. out of the blue. we have this formula change presented to us on a bill that has hing to do with this legislation. let me give a little bit of history. in 1982. senator bentsen was upset that his state and many other states were do states. these states put more into the highway trust fund than they got out of it. and so senator bentsen proposed and had enacted what they call the minimum allocation. matter what the formulas worked out to be. state would get less than 85 percent. so you had your basic formula. that might well determine that when all was said and done. the number of miles driven. highways. mileage. and so forth. that the state of california would only get back perhaps. let us say. 60 percent of what it put into the highway trust fund through its gasoline tax and other excise taxes. the benten formula said that you took what california was going to get. that 60 percent. and you added to it egh money to make it 85 percent. that amount was going to bring some form of equity. you might say. under an ideal system. every state would get back 100 percent of what it put in. if that is true. then let us  have a national highway system and let us  have a highway trust fund. the idea of the national system and the federal highway program was to get good roads throughout our nation. in some instances. some states would contribute more than they got back. and some states would contribute less than they got back. but etheless. for the good of the country. it was determined that you wanted to be able to drive from california up through oregon and washington and over to idaho and be able to get across the country on decent roads.
the senator was very kind. as always. about that. . madam president. for those who are listening here. you would think to hear the discussion on this floor that there was absolutely hing done about the infrastructurethat is a big. new word we are using a lot around herethat the bush administration did hing about the infrastructure. well. as al smith used to say. "let us take a look at the record." for this current fiscal year. there is appropriated for highway building in the united states of americais it $1 billion or $2 billion or $3 billion $18 billion. the largest appropriations for highway construction in the history of the nation for a single year. all right. what about mass transit. is that being completely neglected. that is $3.8 billion.
madam president. section 325 of the transportation appropriations bill  before the senate suspends for 1 year enforcement of a program that was established under the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act of 1990. under this program states are to use recycled materials including crumb rubber from scrap tires in a small portion of the highway construction projects built with federal assistance each year. scrap tires are a serious environmental problem in the united states. each year we discard approximately 250 million used tires. with the advent of the radial tire design. passenger car tires can longer be retreaded or ground up and used to make new tires. so they are piling up in tire dumps all across the nation. today. between two billion and three billion tires are located in tire piles around the country. these tire dumps are breeding grounds for disease carrying mosquitos and rodents. they are also often the location- of toxic fires that cloud the skies and pollute our streams and ground water resources. just 2 weeks age we experienced aher serious tire fire. this one occurred at a tire pile containing more than 1 million tires locate at inwood in berkeley county. wv. the fire was apparently started by an arsonist in the early morning hours of september 14. it burned for 3 days and took 50 fire departments employing 200 firemen to control. volunteer firemen from virginia. maryland. pennsylvania. and new jersey were called in to help fight the blaze. luckily one suffered any acute. serious injuries. but the cloud of toxic smoke could be seen from 30 miles away and the ruf from the firefighting efforts threatened streams and ground water supplies in the area. the state of west virginia has  begun the expensive process of cleaning up the site. madam president. i would ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "hundreds battle huge fire that darkens berkeley." from the september 15 edition of the martinsburg journal be printed at this point in the record.
unfortunately the fire in berkeley county. wv. is  a unique event. ten years ago a fire at winchester. va. burned for 9 months costing the community $1.7 million to extinguish. that site is  on the superfund national priorities list. epa reports that there are about 100 major tire fires across the country each year. three billion scrap tires stored in piles. some containing millions of tires. with the quantity growing by more than 200 million tires per year is a serious solid waste program that needs attention. we found a way to make a small contribution to the solution of the problem by enacting the crumb rubber asphalt program as part of the 1991 in the surface transportation law. for many years some states. principally california and arizona. have been experimenting with the use of recycled tire rubber as a binder in asphalt pavement. a variety of asphalt mixes and processes have been tried over a wide range of road uses and climatic conditions. it works. there is even evidence that asphalt pavement may perform better than conventional pavement in some applications. as we prepared the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act. we saw an opportunity in the highway program to solve an environmental problem caused by highway users. used tires are generated by people driving on the roads we build with federal funds. if those same roads could be built with asphalt composed of recycled tires. the federal highway program could make a contribution to solving one of the major environmental problems that it creates. there were naysayers. we were told that asphalt containing rubber would  perform well. that it might cause health or environmental problems. or that it can be recycled into new roads as most asphalt is today. we addressed those concerns head on in istea. the statute gives the secretary of transportation authority to set aside the tire recycling requirement. if asphalt containing rubber does  perform to specifications. if it causes any health or environmental problem or if it can be recycled. we asked dot and epa to do studies on these questions. the studies are done. there is evidence to support any of these claims. if there was any evidence. i am sure the secretary of transportation would have used his authority to set aside the requirement. the real issue is cost. asphalt containing recycled tire rubber costs more than conventional asphalt. there are several reasons for the higher cost. first. some of the rubber pavement processes have been under patent which has increased the cost. those patents have  expired. second. most projects done to date have been experimental with the asphalt mixed in small batches. that undoubtedly increases the cost. as we use more of this material that factor will be overcome. third. rubber pavement costs more because it is necessary to grind the tires to crumb rubber to get useable material. this factor will always mean that asphalt containing recycled tire rubber will cost more than conventional pavement. is it reasonable to incur this increased cost in our highway program. that is the real question. whole scrap tires can be disposed. they can be sent to city and county landfills. because they can be compacted like other solid waste. if you try to landfill whole scrap tires with other garbage. the integrity of the landfill is destroyed and health and environmental problems are bound to occur. before a tire can be thrown away it must be shredded into small pieces that can be compacted and buried. whether we put this shredded material in a dump as a solid waste or we put it in our highways as a recycled material. the nation must still bear the cost of shredding the scrap tires. and every day we delay means that more communities like berkeley county. wv. will have to bear the cost of fighting tire fires and cleaning up afterwards. highway users create this solid waste problem. at some point we must bear the cost of shredding these tires. if we are to rid ourselves of the tire piles. it is in my view entirely reasonable to ask highway users to bear at least part of the cost to solve this problem by recycling scrap tires into asphalt. i k that some members of the senate want to look at options that would give the states flexibility to use shredded tire material in other highway applications. i would e that section 1038 of istea already provides some of that flexibility. up to 5 percent of the rubber pavement requirement may be met by using other recycled materials in asphalt or in other parts of highway projects. the secretary of transportation was required to do a study on these other options. dot has  carried out its responsibilities under this part of the act. we should consider other uses for recycled tires. the national asphalt pavement association has published a report indicating that shredded tire material may be cheaper than some conventional materials  used in other aspects of highway construction. if that is the case. we ought to move swiftly to utilize the recycled material. perhaps we can go well beyond the goal for tire recycling that was established in istea by looking at these other uses. in regard to the specific provision  pending before the senate. i would e that it sets aside section 1038(d) of istea. this subsection establishes sanctions for states failing to use asphalt containing recycled tire rubber. it is unlikely that any state would face a sanction for 1994 in any event. since the requirements for that year can be met by recycling conventional asphalt into new highway projects. state should have any difficulty meeting the 1994 requirement with the socalled rap or recycled asphalt pavement option. madam president. i k that many members have heard about this provision of istea from their transportation departments and from people who supply conventional asphalt pavement for road projects. i want my colleagues to k that there is also a long list of interested groups on the other side. including the solid waste officials of state and local government. who support the tire recycling provisions of the surface transportation statute. madam president. i ask that five letters reflecting this support be printed at the conclusion of my remarks today.
s national commission to ensure a strong competitive airline industry came out with 61 recommendations. the single policy recommendation" that the commission believed would create the most jobs was to establish a statute of repose for the general aviation industry. wonder the international association of machinists joins in support of this bill.  i want to reiterate a poiint made previously in debate on this bill about public safety: as my colleague from kansas has so ably pointed out. this issue is i repeat a question of whether or  consumers are protected when they buy this aircraft. there are strict regulations placed on the general aviation industry for their manufacturing processes. stringent federal guidelines ensure that planes are built according to exacting criteria. and federal approval and certification is required along the way. we have ensured that passengers in these aircraft are  placed in danger because of shoddy design or manufacturing. or any shortcuts taken by the manufacturer. indeed. i mightpoint out that the bill is supported by yirtually every aviation consumer organization. when accidents do happen. virtually all99 percentoccur  due to a manufacturing or design defect. but to other causes. yet the liability costs for general aviation have skyrocketed.i would argue strongly to my colleagues that a great part of our role in congress is to protect the publics welfare and encourage ecoic development. the current liability system for general aviation adds hing to public welfare. and emously harms ecoic development. if we do  adoft this measure. we will continue to see a decline in the general aviation industryand equally important. a decline in u.s. jobs and trade. are we ready to see the united states  only lose global leadership in this industry but to allow the general aviation industry to disappear altogether in this country. in one stroke. we can improve substantially the situationand therefore the fateof this -important industry. for congress  to act is madness. i for one am  ready to see this industry. with all its techogy and jobs. disappear from the face of this country. i urge the adoption of this very simple but wise measure. and again extend my compliments to the senator from kansas.
madam president. i congratulate the senator from texas. she has been very determined on this matter of caring for the colonias. and she spoke to me many times about it. she outlined the situation very fairly here. i also want to assure her as did the chairman of the committee that we will try to find a vehicle and try to be helpful in her goal to get some of these appropriated moneys to care for this particular severe problem she has in her state. as she pointed out. it is  solely her state. it goes on in arizona. new mexico. and california likewise.
. i would like to join in congratulating the senator from connecticut for bringing this decision to our attention again. the problem is he has it in his state. i have it in my state. you have these communities invest in. say. an incinerator because they want to do the job right. they are following every regulation. they want to clean up the town. they are  going to ship it out of the state. all of these things they follow faithfully. and they float the bonds to pay for the construction of the incinerator. they have to depend on a certain flow of this garbage and trash to come. so they quite rightfully enact certain restrictions that everything within their town must come to this one incinerator to guarantee the bonds so that they can pay for it. it all makes sense. . in comes this decision that says they can do it. it is very. very troublesome. i k that in the senators state he has already a group of incinerators that are running into some financial difficulties. we are in the same situation to some degree. so it issomething that i feel strongly about. i think it behooves all of the senators that do care. to keep after us so that we will pursue it with the diligence that it requires.
. i was pleased to hear the distinguished chairman mention his interest in attempting to accommodate those transportation projects that were  included in the senate version of this bill but were funded in the houseapproved legislation. as the senator from new jersey ks. i strongly support a provision in the house bill providing $10 million for freight rail . improvements along the theast corridor in rhode island. the house provision is intended to mitigate the adverse impacts of the theast corridor improvement project in rhode island. although i strongly support the theast corridor electrification project. i am concerned that as currently envisionedit will inhibit rhode islands ecoy recovery and limit freight rail service. accordingly to amtraks proposed electrification plans. the speed and volume of passenger rail traffic in rhode island would increase dramatically. unfortunately. this modernization would reduce the opportunity for freight rail trips along the rhode island corridor. in addition. the current electrification design may even preclude the introduction of modern triplelevel rail cars on rhode islands tracks. in an effort to address what i consider this unintended consequence of electrification. the state of rhode island has devised a plan and funding mechanism to accommodate the needs of both highspeed passenger rail and freight rail service. the solution involves the construction of a dedicated third track for freight transportation. the key to the plan. of course. is timing. it is imperative that funding be provided  so that amtrak can incorporate the necessary design modifications in the overall electrification program. once the electrification moves forward in rhode island. there will be going back. the time to address the problem is . so. as the appropriations committee completes action today. i want to state for the record that i intend to work with the senator from new jersey. and senator damato to ensure that funding for this freight rail initiative is retained in conference.
. i thank the distinguished chairman. senator lautenberg. and the distinguishedranking member. senator damato. of the subcommittee on transportation and related agencies of the appropriations committee for including funds in the conference agreement for h.r. 4556 that i requested for ministerial road in rhode- island. amendment  157 in the conference report. house report 103752. includes the senate language contained in section 324 of the senate bill. section 324 as included in amendment  157 provides $100.000 of existing funds for scenic byways to provide assistance .to a community group incorporated for the purpose of protecting the scenic qualities of a designated scenic byway. the intent of this provision is to provide the existing $100.000 to the ministerial road preservation association for the purpose of developing and evaluating alternative design standards for ministerial road in rhode island. i would ask the distinguished chairman and ranking member if they agree with my characterization of amendment  157 in the conference agreement.
. i am pleased to join senator warner in introducing legislation today that will approve the designation of the national highway system. as my colleagues will remember. the environment and public works committee fashioned what i believe is a landmark surface transportation bill  kn as the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act of 1991 or istea. the. purpose of this surface transportation law is to provide mobility for all our citizens. to enable our country to be competitive internationally. to promote ecoic development. and to provide transportation facilities that are sensitive to the environment and the communities they pass through. the national highway system. established by the surface transportation law. is an important part of our countrys national transportation system. the national highway system. which includes the interstate system represents 4 percent of the highway system but carries 40 percent of the nations highway travel. even more importantly. it connects intermodal and strategic facilities including our ports. airports. train stations. and military bases. the u.s. department of transportation worked with the states and local governments to develop the national highway system. in december of 1993 the department transmitted the proposed system to congress. congress must approve the national highway system by september 30 of this year. or states will  receive over $6 billion in highway funds. the nhs legislation we are introducing today maintains the important principles that istea established for the national highway system. first. it maintains the flexibility of the nhs so that the system can change as our transportation needs change. the legislation enables states. in consultation with local officials. and the secretary of transportation to add to and delete routes fromthe system. second. the amount of funding a state receives for the nhs program is  tied to the number of miles it has on the nhs system. there is incentive to pad the system with a lot of miles in hopes of receiving more of the federal money. and third. the nhs funds retain their flexibility. states continue to have the ability to transfer nhs funds to other categories to target their highest priority needs. in addition to the approval of the national highway system. the legislation we are introducing today includes several other provisions that are in keeping with the principles of istea to provide flexibility wherever possible. stability is very important in the federalaid highway program. states need the assurance of longterm funding to efficiently manage their transportation programs. as the nhs legislation makes its way through congress this year. there may be a temptation to reopen the surface transportation law and debate items that are controversial. to disrupt this program and make significant changes in midstream will damage the transportation program. if we are to meet the september 30 deadline for approval of the national highway system. contentious issues must be postponed until istea is reauthorized in 1997. i am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing the national highway system bill and will work with them for. its early approval.* by mr. mccain:
. private foundaare  allowed an exemption. they tions have been involved in many more provide support for making grants to aspects of our daily lives than simply other profit agencies. funding medical advances. dr. john in other words. sometimes a private v.n. dorr was an engineer in the early foundation has the capacity to make a 1950s. he speculated that many accicharitable contribution itself to the dents occurring on our nations highunited way or nature conservancy or ways during inclement weather were the sierra club or whatever it might the result of drivers hugging the white be. they provide support for such lines painted in the middle of the road. things as scholarships and disaster re- dorr believed that if similar lines were lief. also. they make grants to individ- painted on the shoulder side of the uals. road. lives could be saved. . foundations are created by en- dorr convinced transportation engidowments. money given by individuals neers in westchester county. ny. to or by families or by corporations. they test his theory along a particularly make grants and operate programs treacherous stretch of highway. the with the income earned from investing dropoff in accidents along this part of the endowments. since most founda- the road was dramatic. and dr. .dorr tions have permanent endowments. used his own foundation to publicize they do  have to raise funds each the demonstrations results nationally. year from the public in order to con- today. although state funds are  tinue their work.. used to paint white lines on the shoulmost functions. charitable activities der side of the nations highways. every year have to go out and raise every person traveling in a motor vehicle is indebted to dorr and his foundation for implementing this lifesaving discovery. as these examples indicate. private foundations provide a great many benefits to our society. by permanently extending this tax incentive. we can continue to encourage individuals to dedicate a substantial portion of their wealth to public. rather than private purposes. i hope my colleagues will support this legislation.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be allowed to meet during the tuesday. may 16. 1995 session of the senate for the purpose of conducting an oversight hearing on nasas space shuttle and reusable launch vehicle program at 9:30 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that when the senate completes its business today. it stand in recess until the hour of 10 a.m. on friday. june 16. that following the prayer. the journal of proceedings be deemed approved to date. the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. and that there be a period for the transaction of morning business  to extend beyond the hour of 11 a.m.. with senators permitted to speak for up to 5 minutes each with the following exception: senator sarbanes. 15 minutes. i further ask unanimous consent that. at the hour of 11 oclock. the senate resume consideration of the motion to proceed to s. 440. the national highway system bill. which we have been on this evening.
. for the information of my colleagues. the senate will resume consideration of the motion to proceed to the highway bill tomorrow. however. the majority leader has annced that rollcall votes will occur during fridays session of the senate. a cloture motion was filed on the motion to proceed. so senators should be on ice that a cloture vote will occur at 3 p.m. on monday next.
 . i thank the distinguished senator from minnesota. i am here to listen to the persuasiveness of his argument. i will say that this bill is important. as we all k. unless we pass this legislation by the end of september of this year. our states will be deprived of some $6.5 billion of highway funds. which we need. so i think it is unfortunate we are involved in this filibuster. but that is obviously the choice of those on the other side. i am perfectly prepared to hear the remarks of the senator from minnesota.
. i ask unanimous consent that during the senates consideration of s. 440. the highway bill. the following amendments be the only firstdegree amendments in order. that they be subject to relevant seconddegree amendments. and that seconddegree amendments be in order prior to a failed motion to table. unless the amendment is described only as relevant. in which case. seconddegree amendments would be in order prior to a rhotion to table. this agreement has been agreed to by the democratic side.
. i want to assure the senator from arkansas we are  closing up right . if the senator has hing further to say. we will go into a quorum call unless the senator from new york has something to say. the majority leader will be closing up the senate a little later. he has a statement he wishes to make. in connection with the bill before ue. the highway bill. we have done as much of our work as we can do today. so i will be leaving. but the place will remain open until the majority leader comes in. sometime  to long. i guess.
. i ask unanimous consent that when the senate completes its business today it stand in recess until the hour of 8:30 a.m.. on thursday. june 22. 1995. that following the prayer. the journal of proceedings be deemed approved to date. the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. and there then be a period for morning business until the hour of 9:30 a.m.. with senators to speak for up to 5 minutes each. with the exception of the following: senator dorgan. 10 minutes. senator coats. 20 minutes. and senator thomas. 30 minutes. further. that at the hour of 9:30 the senate resume consideration of s. 440. the highway bill.
for the information of all senators. the senate will resume consideration of the highway bill tomorrow at 9:30. rollcall votes can be expected on or in relation to amendments to the highway bill. however there will be rollcall votes prior to 11:30 a.m.. on thursday. senators are also reminded at 12 n the senate will resume debate on the ination of dr. foster. with a cloture vote occurring on the ination at 2 p.m. also to alert members following the cloture vote and completion of highway bill. it is the intention of the majority leader to turn to the consideration of s. 240. the securities bill. i would point out. therefore. under this agreement. if we are.  completed with the highway bill. which i do  think we will. because we only have half an hour for votes between 11:30 and 12. therefore. after the cloture vote at 12 oclock on dr. foster. we will be returning to the highway bill for some time. i hope  too long.
. i am pleased the senate is nearing completion of s. 440. the national highway system destination act of 1995. and i want to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation on this legislation. the passage of this legislation brings us a big step closer to the deadline we must meet of september 30. if we are to receive a very substantial distribution of some $6.5 billionthat is "b" for "billion"--of needed highway funds. and i want to commend the manager of the bill. the chairman of the transportation and infrastructure subcommittee. senator warner. for the wonderful job that he has done during the consideration of this legislation. he worked diligently to develop it and to secure the committees approval by a vote of 151. i also want to thank senator baucus as a member of the environment and public works committee. who is also ranking member of this subcommittee. for the excellent work that he has done on this bill. he has been very cooperative in moving it forward. in fact. he provided the leadership in beginning this process. as mentioned by senator warner. in that senator baucus last year brought this legislation to the floor of the senate. it passed. but unfortunately we were unable to reach an agreement with the house before congress adjourned. so i am pleased the senate has approved the national highway system as the secretary of transportation and the local and state officials presented it to us. i think this underlines the fact that the process to designate this system has worked well and resulted in a high degree of consensus among federal and state and local officials. under this bill the cooperative process will continue. state and local officials. with the secretary of transportations approval. will have the ability to continue to make changes in the national highway system as long as the total mileage of 165.000 miles is  exceeded. this is a dynamic entity with which we are involved. this legislation preserves the important principles that the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act of 1991. the socalled istea legislation. put in place. emphasizing flexibility. i regret that we were  able to provide the states more flexibility with respect to the davisbacon provisions. as you k. it emerged from the committee with a revocation of the davisbacon language as it pertained to highway construction. that was removed on the floor of the senate due to the presence of a filibuster on that item. i hope we will be able to deal with this davisbacon situation in the future. i deeply regret that this legislation. in my judgment. represents a giant step backward in a particular area. that is. highway safety. i am extremely disappointed that the senate made the decision to repeal the federal speed limit as it pertains to automobiles. it was maintained as to trucks. that was a half a victory. as to automobiles. it was  maintained. and as for the motorcycle helmet requirements. they were repealed. again. it was half a victory. if you would. or half a loss. in that of the two items. seatbelts and motorcycle helmets. the seatbelts were retained and the motorcycle helmet provision was repealed. i think that is a bad decision and will result in extremely unfortunate consequences. i believe lives will be lost that could have been preserved otherwise. i believe there will be more serious injuries that could have been avoided. and i believe the cost to federal and state governments will go up. but that is life. we had a long debate on it. there is question that the will of the senate was expressed. hing went through in the dark of night on that one. everybody knew the issues and a vote was held. the vote was very. very clear to repeal the helmet provision. i want to take this opportunity to thank the secretary of transportation. mr. pefia. and mr. rodney slater. the administrator of the federal highway system. they did a splendid job in working with the states to develop this whole system. the system was adopted by the senate as was proposed. as it came up to us. that is a testimony to the effective job that was done by the states and the federal officials. particularly mr. slater. who has been very helpful to us  only during the designation of the national highway system. but in the consideration of this measure on the floor. and his deputy administrator. jane garvey. and their staff. the staff they have was working with us over the past several days. finally. i want to join in thanks to the staff who worked on this legislation. on our side. steve shimberg. jean lauver. ann loomis. linda jordan. and larry dwyer. and for the democratic side. tom sliter. kathy ruffalo. and alice washburn. all have been absolutely splendid. there is question we rely to a great degree on them. because we have confidence in them built up over the years. so i want to thank the chair and thank all my colleagues for their assistance in this measure.
. the senate has been down this road before. in 1982 it unanimously adopted a regulatory reform bill. members ought to read that bill. they will find that the glennchafee amendment is cut from the same cloth. this year. one committee of the senate unanimously reported a regulatory reform bill. and that is the glennchafee amendment. in addition to the costbenefit and judicial review benefits. there are other important differences that we will outline in the debate on monday. i look forward to a spirited discussion. i wish to thank the chair and thank the managers of the bill for permitting me to proceed. i thank the senator from alaska.
. i ask unanimous consent that the senate proceed to the consideration of the house message to accompany s. 440. n the national highway bill. that the a senate move to disagree with the house amendments and agree to a request for a conference. the chair be authorized to appoint the conferees on the part of the senate. i the presiding officer. without objection. it is so ordered.
. i ask that the chair lay before the senate a message from the house of representa*tives on s. 440. a bill to amend title 23. united states code. to provide for the designation of the national highway system. and for other purposes.
i am pleased to say that the conference report  before the senate makes the specific changes in the inspection and maintenance program that the govers recommend. first. the bill prevents epa from requiring any state to use the expensive testing techogy. second. epa is barred from applying an automatic 50percent discount to the decentralized. testandrepair programs that some states have adopted. and third. the bill allows states to develop inative programs based on their own estimates of the emissions reductions that will result. as the govers suggest. the conference report allows these inative approaches to be put into effect on an interim basis to determine whether they work. if they do. the states can get permanent approval. if . states will be required to make adjustments to assure that the emissions reductions needed to reach health standards will be achieved. this conference report gives the states a green light to develop programs that will work for their citizens. but it also requires that the states prove that the programs are working before permanent approval is granted. this conference report addresses all of the issues raised by the govers in their letter. we have discussed this legislation with epa and based on those discussions. we are confident that these changes to the program are workable and will provide a soundbasis for enhanced inspection. and maintenance programs. this legislation resolves the problems with inspection and maintenance that the states have raised and should move us rapidly to the day when vehicle testing is an even more effective way to reduce air pollution in the nations urban areas. i am pleased that this legislation continues the ban on new billboards on scenic byways. the conference agreement codifies the department of transportations implementation of the law whidh prohibits new billboards on scenic byways in scenic areas. consistent with congress intent in passing istea. the department of transportation has prohibited new billboard construction along scenic byways on the interstate and primary systems. in some unusual circumstances. a scenic byway may pass through a heavily industrial or commercial area which does  possess any scenic. cultural. historical. natural. archaeological. or - recreational characteristics. in such cases. the secretary may continue to permit the states to segment those areas out of the designation and to allow new billboards in those undesignated areas. where segments are proposed for exclusion. the secretary has the responsibility to examine these exclusions to ensure that exclusions are. in fact. made on a reasonable basis. the secretary of transportation continues to have the authority to prevent the circumvention of the requirements of section 131(s) and section 1047 of the intermodal surface transportatibn efficiency act of 1991. the secretary has used his authority and intervened in the past when states have proposed actions that evade the federal law banning billboards on scenic byways. the secretary continues to have this authority and has the responsibility to exercise it in those cases where the states are  complying with the billboard ban on scenic byways. the secretarys authority is described in a legal memorandum from the deputy chief counsel to the federal highway administrator. i ask unanimous consent that this memorandum be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i regret that this legislation repeals several federal safety requirements. including the speed limit and the motorcycle helmet requirement and weakens certain truck safety requirements. why did that come about. it came about because we had votes in the chamber of this senate by some substantial majorities. the body spoke and said they wanted these safety requirements in the hands of the states rather than in the federal governmentthe speed limits on the highways. the requirement that we presently have that motorcyclists wear helmets or that the states will lose some funds. all of that has been turned back to the states. and so  they are responsible for the health and safety of the public traveling on our transportation system. i certainly hope that the states will exercise extreme caution wher using these new authorities. the conference agreement directs the department of transportation to collect data and report to congress regarding the costs of deaths and injuries resulting from motor vehicle crashes in those states that raise the speed limit or change their motorcycle helmet laws. the department of transportation collects important safety data and it is more important than ever
. i say to the distinguished senator from washington that he is right. there is a selectivity about flexibility in the states. and the senator wisely pointed that out. flexibility is wanted as far as speed limits and helmets go and all that. but when it comes to flexibility and spending funds for amtrak. state funds. that flexibility can be granted. but those are what we run into. even though we had. on amtrak. a very favorable vote here on the senate floor. but on the billboard matter. i would like to stress that the billboard section solely dealt with scenic byways.  the overall billboard control. and. second. we feel confident. and we spent a lot of time on thisi personally spent more time on this part than anything else in the conferencewe feel that we have  given away anything in connection with the billboard control.and that what we have codified is the exact practice that the highway administration is currently following. so i think we came out well on the thing. particularly in the final line in the conference report which i read earlier. which stated that "the secretary of transportation has the authority to prevent actions that evade federal requirements." so i am satisfied with how we came out.
. i listened carefully to what the distinguished senator from oklahoma had to say. he has been a long battler for the states being able to set these speed limits. he prevailed overwhelmingly on the floor of this chamber. i did  agree with him. but the vote was clearly in his favor. i just hope he is right. i hope he proves the rest of us to be absolutely wrong. i hope that the speed limits will be monitored carefully by the states. i think there is a lot in what he says in that the states are concerned about highway deaths. i k when i was gover. every year i paid a great deal of attention to the deaths on our highways and sought to bring it down. whether all the govers spend time on matters like that. as i did. i do  k. i just hope he is right. i hope a year from  we can say. to the senator from oklahoma. "you were right and we were wrong." if so. i would be very. very pleased. here is a case where -i would be glad to be proven wrong.
. first. i see the distinguished democratic senator from delaware here. i want to say everything he said was exactly right. it was an overwhelming vote on the floor to permit the states to give money to amtrak. that this was the ultimate of flexibility. which is the big war cry around this place. but we have discovered when it comes to flexibility. there is a great deal of flexibility in interpreting what is flexible. there was movement in the house on this. it was very. verythey were adamant. all i can say is i think what this country needs is a transportation trust fund.  a highway trust fund. i k that the distinguished chairman of the finance committee is going to speak in a few minutes. and i believe he has thoughts in the same manner. but clearly we have to do something about amtrak. we can just make the cuts that the distinguished senator from new jersey was talking about. $137 million. as the senator from delaware said. every railroad transportation system in the world is subsidized. and for us to think that we can get away without subsidizing amtrak is sense. however. we would  have a bill here today if we hung to our position that was voted here on the floor.
madam president. h.r. 325 makes amendments to the clean air act to fix a provision that has  worked. the 1990 amendments required each state with a severe ozone attainment problem to adopt measures that would increase vehicle occupancy rates during the rush hour. businesses and other organizations employing more than 100 people in nine major metropolitan regions were expected to encourage carpooling and the use of mass transit to reduce the number of vehicles travleing to and from work each day. this provision of the 1990 amendments was modeled on a program that was being implemented in los angeles. as more and more employers have relocated to the deep suburbs where mass transit is impractical and have built large parking facilities for their workers. metropolitan areas have experienced a dramatic increase in the number of cars on the road and the distances that commuters travel to their jobs. this increase in trips and miles traveled has. to some extent. offset dramatic gains in emissions reduction that have been achieved through catalytic converters and other pollution control devices. on automobiles. the employer trip reduction program was intended to address this troublesome side of the air quality problem. but evidence accumulated since the 1990 amendments were enacted indicates that ridesharing programs are  a costeffective option in the shortterm to control air pollution. the effort necessary to convince commuters to get out of their cars and into carpools or buses or trains is quite expensive compared to other steps that would achieve the same emissions reductions in the shortterm. it may be that over a very long period. a requirement like this would convince major employers to make locational decisions that encourage the use of transit and other ridesharing options. but in the shortrun. the emissions reductions achieved do  justify the great difficulties that would be experienced by the states and by employers to carry out the trip reduction program. this requirement of the 1990 clean air act amendments has engendered much opposition in the legislatures of the several states that are subject to. epa made it clear earlier this year that the agency would  aggressively enforce the requirements. and even in los angeles. the program that served as a model for the 1990 federal program has been discontinued. all seem to agree that this is a measure that should  be mandated. h.r. 325 does  entirely repeal the employer trip reduction program. it makes it voluntary with the states. it will remain as potential avenue for emissions reductions for the states that choose to use it. and the bill does  rollback the clean air act in any sense. all states will continue to bear an obligation to achieve healthy air quality by the same deadlines that are currently in the law. the bill makes clear that states that choose  to carry out the tsip reduction program must find equivalent emissions reductions from other sources. madam president. we have a responsibility to act quickly to fix federal programs. such as this one. that have proved unworkable. so. i have urged that the senate act on this bill immediately and send it to the president without further delay. i would e that the national highway system bill that the president recently signed corrected problems with epa regulations for the vehicle inspection and maintenanice program under the clean air act. where legitimate problems with implementation of the clean air act have been discovered. we are moving to correct them.
. i can think of a more deserving person to be the "man of the year." since congress unfortunately repealed the federal motorcycle requirements recently in the national highway system designation act. i am particularly grateful that doug. and others like him. are working at the state level to educate people about the benefits of wearing motorcycle helmets and the terrible consequences when they do . i want to congratulate doug and wish him the very best in whatever he chooses to undertake in the future. i ask that the journal article recognizing dougs accomplishments be printed in the record.
s oftenstated desire to fix this program. a bill that he can and should sign. at this point in our process. as our negotiations move into some of the more difficult issues. senator s.h1th and i agreed that it is important to give members of this body. as well as those outside parties interested ir superfund reform. an opportunity to look at. and comment upon. the results of our negotiations to date. the document. a staff draft that will be printed resents a snapshot of the current status of our negotiations. in a few moments. senator smrrh will offer more detailed comments on this new draft of the superfund bill. all sides in our negotiations have justifiably reserved final judgment until negotiations are complete and important constituencies have had the cs.nce to analyze and comment on thc final product. as we move forward. we want to irevide opportunities bo receive formal comments on the bill. in the next. fow days we will schedulc hear.-ingl ail the bill to occur as soon ao poscible after the easter recess. we hope that we car reach substantive sgreement on a bipartisan bill by thm trre. or uls use the hearings to further explorc the remaining areas of differener.. wf. pia. tc move on to a markup and propar- the bill for floor action as roon cs we ctn this spring. i want to express rm~y appreci.tlo. the ranking member of the connii t.c.. senator baucus. and the svprfund subcommittee. senator lautnfabeigt for their contributions to the process. also want to thank th. rdminstratior. for their efforts in these negotiations. . most of all i would like to than- sonator smith for the many hours he an6 his staff have dovoted to kreeine: superfund reform ontiaci. and iroving forward. this is easy t.0% superfund is a compler and ccnty(.vcrsial program. and progress if alwty. difficult in the best of circnmsaxce..  to mention a prcidantizl dec tion year. we hrve a very good caritce to enact superfund reloirn t te ...ea-. and if we do. a great den.l of th- cre6it. should go to senator sfla.
. her duty was to monitor activities in the office. and what did she come up with. she came up with a scheme to replace all those employees with trm. a travel agency owned by harry thomasson. a hollywood friend and close adviser of the clintons. it was on socalled evidence of wrongdoing.
. today. i am introducing legislation which will allow the private sector to take a more active role in building and operating our nations highway infrastructure. the highway infrastructure privatization act will allow the private -sector to gain access to taxexempt bond financing for a limited number of highway projects. i am pleased that my distinguished colleagues. senators war-
. the amendment before us today represents a far more prudent approach to this sensitive issue. it outlines in detail the serious problems involved in mexico today. and makes it clear that further progress is needed. however. instead of simply clubbing mexico and walking away. this amendment sets very specific benchmarks for improved antidrug efforts by mexico. and requires a progress report from the administration by september 1. among other things. this report must describe the extent to which our two nations have made significant and demonstrable progress on dismantling. drug cartels. improving law enforcement relationships. and increasing cooperation on extradition of mexican drug dealers wanted in the united states. the amendment makes it entirely clear both to this administration and to mexico where the failings have been and what our priorities are. however. under this compromise. nationalist forces will  be incited in mexico. and our diplomatic efforts can continue smoothly. i urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment. thank you.
. on march 14. i came to the floor to intro-. duce s. 445. the waste tire recycling. abatement. and disposal act of 1997. today. i want to make sure that the record is clear on an issue relating to the retreading of radialtype tires. it has come to my attention that my remarks regarding retreading have led to some concern on the part of those engaged in the retreading industry. there are approximately 1.440 retreading plants in the united states. and approximately 90 percent of the retreading plants are independently owned small businesses. in my oral remarks on march 14. i said "the nature of modern steel belted radial tires makes it very difficult to recycle these tires into new ones. once upon a time. old tires were retreaded. as we all k. you can do that with radial tires." while that statement is true with regards to recycling rubber from modern radial tires directly into new radial tires. it is  accurate with respect to retreading of radials. the tire retread information bureau and the international tire and rubber association recently provided me with the information on the retreading of tires in 1996. when a total of 29.1 million tires were retreaded in the united states. this breaks down to approximately 4.2 million passenger car tires. 99 percent of them radials. 7 million light truck tires. 80 percent of them radials. and 16.5 million medium truck tirestires for socalled 18 wheelers. 89 percent of them radials. the remainder are offroad vehicle tires. aircraft tires. and specialty tires. my bill. s. 445. recognizes that retreading tires is an environmentally beneficial fate for tires that would otherwise require immediate disposal. proposed section 4011(d)(1)(b) provides tire retreaders with an exception .to the general prohibition on storage of more than 1.500 unshredded waste tires for a period greater than 7 days. this section affirmatively promotes retreading by allowing retreaders to store at their plants the greater of either 2.500 tires. or a number equal to the number of tires to be retreaded over a 30day period.o
. this is an issue that. in my opinion. was resolved after the administration initially fixed its error last december. unfortunately. the administration has reopened this complicated issue. the appropriations committee has developed a fair solution to a difficult problem and they should be congratulated. i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and support the chairman of the appropriations committee. while we are focused on the distribution of funds to the states i would like to say a few words about the formulas in the context of istea reauthorization. i realize that some members of this body believe that the current formulas that distribute highway funds are neither fair  appropriate. many members argue that various factors. such as interstate highway mileage. state population. highway trust fund contributions. and the number of deficient bridges should be given greater weight or importance in the distribution formula. i think we can all agree that we have a long and difficult task before us in determining the appropriate formula for the next istea. i therefore urge my colleagues to make every effort to work with. rather than against. one aher in crafting a fair distribution formula that benefits the states and the national system alike. thank you.
. i am one who does  there is a sufficient second. question the need for a federal invest- the yeas and nays were ordered. ment in passenger rail. the absence of ote on motion to waive the budget act passenger rail would clog our highways t and airports--an additional 7.500 fully- the presiding officer. the booked 757s. or hundreds of thousands question is on the motion to waive the of cars. would be needed between wash- budget act. the yeas and nays have ington. dc. and new york every year. been ordered. all major industrialized nations pro- the clerk will call the roll. vide subsidies to passenger rail. usually the assistant legislative clerk called to a greater extent than our govern- the roll. ments support for amtrak. in fact. mr. ford. i annce that the senamtrak covers more- of its operating ator from hawaii and the costs--an estimated 84 percentthan senator from south carolina [mr. holany other passenger railroad in the lings] are necessarily absent. world. etheless. amtrak operates the presiding officer. are there the only mode of transportation in the any other senators in the chamber united states which does  have a who desire to vote. dedicated source of funding. the yeas and nays resulted. yeas 77. so the question before the senate nays 21. as follows: today is how best to provide needed [rollcall vote  157 leg.] federal support for amtraks critical yeas77 capital investment needs. after years akaka faircloth mack of congressi6nal hearings. gao reports baucus feingold mcconnell and strategic plans. i and many of my bennett feinstein mikuiski biden ford moseleybraun colleagues have concluded that dedi- bingaran graham moynihan cating a portion of the federal gas tax boxer grassley murkowskl to a rail trust fund is the most appro- breaux hagel murray bryan earkin nickles. priate and reliable means of ensuring brmar hatch res bumprs .atchreed that passenger rail can continue to burns helms reid meet americas transportation needs. byrd hutchinson robb such a solution provides passenger rail campbell hutchison roberts chafee inhofe rockefeller with the same type of federal support cleland jeffords roth for capital improvements that other coats johnson santorum modes of transportation have enjoyed cochran kennedy sarbanes collins kerrey smith (or) for years. conrad kerry se this bills creation of an intercity damato kohl specter passenger rail fund financed by one- daschle landrieu stevens half cent- of the gas tax. coupled with dewine lautenberg thomas dodd leahy thurmond the needed operating reforms con- domenici levin torricelli tained within the amtrak authoriza- dorgan lieberman wellstone tion bill introduced by the senator durbin lott wyden from texas. will allow amtrak to oper- enzi lugar ate more like a business. end its reli- nays21 ance on federal operating subsidies. abraham craig gregg and thus better serve americas trans- allard frist kempthorne portation needs. ashcroft glenn kyl - bond gorton at least for the 3 years that this brownback gramm trust fund is financed. we will start coverdell grams mccain sessions holllngs shelby thompson smith (nh) warner
. i ask unanimous consent that the surface transportation and merchant marine subcommittee of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on tuesday. october 21. 1997. at 2:30 p.m. on s. 803. s. 668. and the domestic cruise ship trade.
. tomorrow morning following the period of morning business the senate will conduct two consecutive rollcall votes beginning at 11 a.m. the first vote will be on cloture on the committee amendment to the istea legislation. to be followed by a vote on passage of the continuing resolution. if cloture is  invoked at 11 a.m. on thursday. it is hoped that the second cloture vote will occur thursday aftern. therefore. members can anticipate rollcall votes throughout thursdays session of the senate. it is the leaders hope thatthe senate can make progress on the highway legislationit is my hope. too. i might addduring tomorrows session. in addition. if any appropriations conference reports become available. it would be expected that the senate consider those reports in short order.
. i think that is very regrettable.  people are backing off and saying lets possibly have a 6month bill. i think that is a disaster. ody can do any longrange planning with a 6month piece of legislation. so i think it is very unfortunate the way this has worked out. i am  sure what the next order of business is or what the next step in connection with this highway legislation will be. but i feel very badly that we did  get cloture so we could go ahead and deal with a good bill. bring up the amendments and vote on them one way or aher. but we were unable to do that. and i regret it.
. i am pleased that the senate has confirmed lt. gen. kenneth r. wykle to be the administrator of the federal highway administration. i must say that we have been waiting quite some time for this day. as the position has been vacant since secretary slater was confirmed in early february. general wykle appeared before the committee on environment and public works on tuesday.. october 28. and i am pleased to report that he is an excellent candidate for the position before him. he has a distinguished 32year record of service with u.s. army. where he led a number of organizations and commands in the united states. europe. and asia. he also has extensive experience in managing the transportation of personnel and cargo by air. highway. rail. and ship. i am confident that he will continue to build on this excellent record as federal highway administrator. in his new position. general wykle will represent the department of transportation and advise the secretary on all matters related to the efficient movement of passengers and freight on the nations transportation system. the federal highway administration is responsible for implementing a wide range of programs. including the federalaid highway program. highway safety programs. motors carrier programs. the federal lands highway program. research and techogy. and international programs. an issue that is on everyones mind is the reauthorization of the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act. or istea. the federal highway administrations role is a critical one in helping to implement this landmark legislation. i look forward to working with general wykle and his staff through the reauthorization process and through the implementation process. once the bill is enacted. it is incumbent upon the federal highway administrator to protect  only the key federal role- in implementing istea ii but also the broad perspective needed to guide the nations transportation system into the next century. the enactment of istea in 1991 transformed what was once simply a highway program into a program  only for building roads and bridges but also for enhancing our mobility. our safety. and the environment. in the second istea. we must move forward and strengthen isteas laudable goals of intermodalism. flexibility and efficiency. i am confident that general wykle has the experience and the kledge to lead the federal highway administration through the challenges ahead.
. i ask unanimous consent that the aviation subcommittee of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on thursday. february 26. 1998. at 2:00 p.m. on air traffic control.
. this as you k is the socalled surface transportation legislation. sometimes called the highway bill. sometimes called istea ii. we are ready to do business here. anybody who has amendments i hope will come over and present them. we are ready to take them up. there is waiting. there is plenty of opportunity. so i hope those within listening distance will heed this very kind invitation to please report for duty. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
he and i have gone round and round about this. but in the final analysis. we have joined hands. so. the people of appalachia. who constitute 22 million people in 399 counties of 13 states--those people who have been promised these corridors  for 32 yearscan  see the light at the end of the tunnel. because what we have agreed to here will be the $300 million that is already in the reported highway bill. plus $1.89 billion. which will be added according to our agreement. thus making a total of $2.19 billion. which conforms to the presidents request. for the entire cycle 19982003. then. there will be $2.19 billion for appalachian highways. that is  going to be earmarked money. that money is going to those 13 states on the basis of the appalachian highway mileage that remains to be constructed and considering the costs of completion. throughout the region. of the total appalachian development highway system. 78 percent of the system has been completed or is under construction. beside and beyond the appalachian portion. this agreement. will benefit every state in the union in terms of additional dollars for highways. i believe i am making a correct statement. the distinguished senator from rhode island. mr. chafee. is ding his head in the affirmative. let me close by thanking him again and by thanking the majority leader. by thanking mr. gramm of texas. mr. baucus. mr. warner. and mr. domeni. it has been a beautiful exercise in give and take.and finally coming to a consensus and shaking hands andsaying. "we are going to stand by this agreement." . i thank all senators. and i thank the chair.
madam president. i salute the distinguished senior senator from west virginia for the tremendous work he did in connection with this.  only just the appalachian regional highway portion of this bill but the overall bill. as the senator mentioned. he was in on all the negotiations and pressed forward to conclusion. he outlined vigorously the needs of. and i dont want to say just west virginia. because west virginia is just part of the appalachian region. he stressed the needs for all the appalachian regional area. and prevailed. i salute him for the work he did. if he can fit it in. i would like to be asked down to the dedication of one of those roads. i have never seen them. to tell you the truth. i think i will go down and take a look. i have heard about them.
thank you. thank you. if it is anything like when we used to build roads at home when i was gover. we would have a ribboncutting about every 2 miles of road we built. in any event. i look forward to it. and i salute the distinguished senator with whom i have had such pleasure serving in the senate ever since i came here. he had been here long before i ever got here. it has been one of the real treats of my experience in the senate to have served with senator byrd.
. i want to thank the distinguished senator from missouri for those kind comments. we have worked closely together. and he has been a valuable member of the committee.  only on highway matters. but in other matters likewise. we look forward to his vigorous support as we move forward with this legislation. . the senator from minnesota. i believe. has matters to discuss.
madam president. before we start. i once again say to anybody who hasnt yet got themessage. i have been authorized by the majority leader to annce that there will be further rollcall votes this evening. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that at 9 a.m. on thursday. immediately following the resumption of the highway bill..senator bingaman be recognized in order to offer an amendment regarding liquor drivethroughs. i further ask unanimous consent that there be 30 minutes for debate. equally divided in the usual form. on that amendment. i further ask consent that immediately following that debate. the amendment be set aside and senator dorgan be recognized to offer an amendment regarding open containers. i ask consent that there be 60 minutes for debate. equally divided in the usual form. on that amendment. finally. i ask consent that at the expiration of that time. at approximately 10:30 a.m. on thursday. the senate proceed to a vote on or in relation. first. to the dorgan amendment. to be followed by a vote on or in relation to the bingaman amendment. i also ask unanimous consent that amendments be in order to the abovementioned amendments.
i will say to anyone who wishes to oppose this amendment. who wishes to speak in opposition.  is the time to come over to speak. as has been pointed out. there are 11 minutes remaining. i will make a couple of comments. . senator bingamans amendment would withhold 5 percent of a states highway construction funds. unless the state enacted or enforced a law prohibiting drivethrough liquor sales byit is my understanding the date  has been changed to october 1. 2000. am i correct in that.
madam president. i rise in support of this amendment offered by my colleague from th dakota. the terrible problem of drunk driving is certainly. as we all recognize. an issue of national importance. in 1996. more than 17.000 lives were lost on our nations highways as a result of alcoholrelated collisions. this represents nearly half of all the fatalities that occur on our roads each year. the laws on how drinking and driving are treated vary from state to state. as mentioned previously. six states allow drivers to operate motor vehicles and drink alcohol at the same time. in over half of the states. even if a driver can drink. all the passengers in the vehicle can drink. madam president. the sad thing is that drunk driving accidents are completely avoidable. there is  a single reason why the driver sitting behind the wheel of a car should be allowed to consume an alcoholic beverage. . madam president. this isnt about freedom and states rights. it is about the rights of a driver against other drivers on the road. shouldnt every individual have a right to travel safely on the highways. there is a lot of discussion here as to. "oh. leave it up to each state." well. as we all k. in my state. you can go across the state in an hour and. clearly. you are either in massachusetts or connecticut very quickly. and so it is in most of the states. we travel from state to state freely. very few peqple stay entirely within the borders of their own state all the time. so we have a right to k that when we go out of our state. if our state should adopt an amendment like this. we will be safe in the other states likewise. i believe the amendment of the senator from th dakota will save lives by keeping alcoholic beverages off the road. this is a workable and fair solution to the problem of open containers and the larger problem of drunk driving. . madam president. we still have time in opposition to the senators amendment. but absent that or whatever he chooses. we have previously committed to  go to a vote until 10:30. i would like to stick by that commitment. even though it might require some dead time here.
. this amendment would allow funds that are allocated under the surface transportation program to be used for programs to reduce motor vehicle emissions caused by extreme coldstart conditions. the problem is that in the thern states when cold weather comes. the starting of an engine is the highest emission point from the engine. ninety percent of engine wear happens when the car is started. the engine wear in cold climate conditions is twice this amount. this amendment has been cleared by both sides. what it 111 do is permit these funds to be used for some kind of heaters that might be installed to warm up the catalytic converter or other aspects of the engine so that when it is started. it will  start cold and will  have the heavy emissions that occur absent some warming techniques.
. i havent heard from the senator from utah. the distinguished chairman of the committee who has power over all these affirmative action programs. why doesnt he go after all of them. that would be a rather magnificent effort. it certainly would shake things up. the senator could come to the senate and try to get rid of all 160 different affirmative action programs. why doesnt he do that instead of picking on the highway program. go after all of them. there is a -suggestion for you. i certainly would  support that effort. but i am saying that if you really want to get into an affirmative action debate. why you dont do that. through your committee.
the senator is exactly right. that is my understanding. my understanding is they are ready to go. one of the most famous reports that one hears in the senate is. so and so "is on his way." "on his way" can mean a lot of things. it can mean circling ronald reagan airport preparing to land. or it could just mean that he has gotten on the elevator and will be here within 45 seconds. so we have heard reports that the finance committee representatives who are going to present that amendment are on their way. again. i am  sure what that exactly means.
. i am delighted to be a cosponsor of this amendment offered by the senator from missouri.  we all recognize trucks are essential to the nations ecoic health. there is argument to that. but we believe allowing increasing the number of the larger trucks to operate on our highway is a dangerous way to increase productivity. tripletrailer trucks impose. i believe. a triple threat to safety. to the environment. and to the highway infrastructure. this amendment is a sense of the senate that we will stay as we are. that is what the underlying legislation does. it does  change what the states allow. or roads they are permitted to operate under . and does  increase the ability to operate where they are  operating . i am for that. i thank the senator for his amendment.
. i k the senator from kansas worked hard on this. and we have worked with him. i am absolutely confident that everything is all set here. meanwhile. etheless. there is a request that has been made. so we will have to defer to that. what i suggest to the senator is. lets set his amendment aside. and as soon as things get clearedwhich i think will be momentarilywe will go right back to it. before we do that. i have several points of clarification on the amendment allowing for the disapproval. by the surface transportation board. of a railbanking request at least half of the local jurisdictions through which the rail corridor proposed for railbanking affirmatively oppose the request. will the senator from kansas confirm my understanding of his amendment.
thank you. first. although it is  explicitly referenced in the wording of the amendment whether its terms would apply to rail corridors that already are railbanked. and which already have been transferred from the railroad to the railbanking agency. it is my understanding that your amendment does  apply to corridors where a ice or certificate of interim trail use under section 1247(d) of title 23. united states code. already has been issued by the surface transportation board. the amendment only will be applied prospectively. am i correct in my understanding.
. the purpose of the amendment offered by my colleague from kansas is to provide clear opportunities for local input into the railbanking process where section 8(d) of the national trails system act is invoked. the national trails system act provides for the preservation of otherwise abandoned rail corridors through interim use as trails. in short. it has allowed railroads wishing to abandon a line to enter into a voluntary agreement with a trailmanaging agency. to turn the abandoned rightofway into a trail for bicycling. walking. smobiling. horseback riding and the like. railbanking is a complex and sensitive issue that is in the jurisdiction of the senate energy and commerce committees. i am pleased that senator brownback has worked with the chairman and ranking members of both of these committees and with the national railstotrails conservancy to come to an agreement that does  limit the development of rail trails or detract from the good work done by the railbanking program.
. i have a series of technical amendments here that are agreeable to both sides. and i will have them considered en bloc. the first is an amendment by senator byrd dealing with a study of the highway and bridge needs and road needs of the country. the second is a moseley:braun safety amendment. the third is a sarbanes amendment dealing with travel plazas. the fourth amendment is from senator moynnian dealing with the pennsylvania station redevelopment corporation board of directors and the membership of that board.
madam president. this amendment gives the secretary of transportation the authority to fulfill our international treaty obligations. it deals with the socalled highway between canada and alaska. it has been cleared by both sides.
madam president. i .also ask unanimous consent that at 10:30 a.m. the senate resume consideration of s. 1173. the highway bill. and immediately proceed to a vote on or in relation to the mccain amendment  1726 regarding demonstration projects.
. if i can briefly explain. these amendments deal with the application of the dbe program to the transit title. inadvertently. these provisions were left out when the original transit title was adopted. these amendments provide for the dbe portion of the transit title. and the second provision deals with the mcconnell modifications to that..the mcconnell modifications were the ones we adopted to the dbe in the highway program yesterday.
worked with us throughout. there was a time when he was  entirely in favor of what . we have come a long way. we are here. and within a short period i hope this measure is voted on final passage. i want to thank ann loomis of my staff. i have never in my 19 years in the senate witnessed a higher dedication and commitment by any person serving in the capacity of the staff than this fine person. together with her assistant. ellen stein. in helping me. we were joined by dan corbett. kathy ruffalo of senator baucus staff. jimmie powell. the staff director. thomas sliter. the miity staff director. as well as cheryl tucker. abigail kinnison. and linda jordan. what a marvelous group. we have worked together in a bipartisan way to achieve this legislation. i hope other members of the staff and the senate recognize. how their peer group throughout the senate workedthose assigned to the highway responsibilities and the legislative offices of every senatorto bring about this bill. we thank all of you. we really got a remarkable piece of legislation and here we are. i think there is one matter still remaining and i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. from my visits to california. i have learned first hand how the traffic coming through the ports- of long beach and los angeles are expected to more than double by the year 2020 with 25% of all u.s. imports coming through these two ports. if we are to realize the benefits of this increased trade. we must improve the efficient movement of the cargo throughout this nation while at the same time taking every step to enhance the safety of the residents of the area and to improve the environment. the senator should be assured that i will give this project every consideration as we move to final enactment of this bill. -
i want to assure the senator from pennsylvania that i am well aware of this project and his support for it. it certainly is commendable when a state will put up 80 percent of any highway project and i thank the senator for his input. which will be helpful as we proceed to a conference with the house.
. i rise today to thank the managers of the 1998 coast guard authorization act for their help in addressing an issue of great importance in rhode island: the safety of the tug and barge industry. the managers amendment to the coast guard authorization act that passed the senate on monday included a provision that will strengthen the regulation of transportation of petroleum by barges in the waters of the theast. i appreciate the cooperation of commerce committee chairman mccain. ranking member hollings. subcommittee chairwoman ss. and ranking member kerry for incorporating my provision into the bill. i especially want to thank the cosponsor of the provision. senator joseph lieberman of connecticut. for his support. we have worked closely on this issue for several years. senator dodd of connecticut also lent his support to the effort. in order to understand why the chaffeelieberman provisions are necessary. you must go back to the 1996 disaster when the tug scandia and barge th cape grounded on the coast of rhode island. after the accident. the environment and public works committee. which i chair. reported a bill to improve towing vessel safety. and important elements of the bill were included in the 1996 coast guard authorization act. my intent in enacting 1996 provisions was to improve safety in the towing industry so as to prevent a repetition of a disaster like the 1996 scandia/th cape spill in block island sound. in october. 1997 the coast guard issued rules to implement the 1996 towing vessel legislation. i and others concluded that the proposed rules might  prevent a repetition of the scandia/ th cape disaster and asked the coast guard to reconsider. the coast guard is  reworking the rules and expect to issue an interim final national rule on anchoring and barge retrieval systems in ember 1998. they will repropose fire suppression regulations in january 1999. senator iaberman and i also were concerned that the proposed rules did  implement the recommendations of the regional risk assessment team or "rrat." which forged a remarkable consensus among coast guard district one. the states. the environmental community. and the regulated industry onrules. to improve safety and reduce risks in the waters of the theast states. the team was assembled by the marine safety office in the first coast guard district shortly after the th cape spill. the rrat met for six months and. in february 1997. delivered a report with extensive regulatory recommendations. regulations were proposed in the following areas: vessel manning. anchors and barge retrieval systems. voyage planning. navigation safety equipment aboard towing vessels. enhanced communications. vessel traffic schemes and exclusion zones. lightering activities. tug escorts. and. crew fatigue. the report was signed by the. rrat steering committee members: the chief of the marine safety division of the first coast guard district. the american waterway operators (on behalf of the regulated industry). save the bay (on behalf of environmental organizations). and the rhode island department of environmental management (on behalf of states participating in the rrat). the coast guard was deeply involved in the rrat process. the first coast guard district facilitated rrat meetings. prepared the agendas and minutes. and lent other administrative support to the effort. in june 1997. the first coast guard district also forwarded its plan to implement the rrat recommendations to coast guard headquarters. it was the expectation of the state. environmental. and industry rrat participants that the rrat recommendations for regional regulations would be included as a part of the rulemaking to implement the towing vessel safety provisions in the coast guard authorization act of 1996. this was a reasonable expectation based upon the level of coast guard involvement in the development of the consensus rrat recommendations. which were then endorsed by the coast guard officer charged with marine safety in the rrat study area. unfortunately. the regulations proposed by the coast guard in october 1997. did  incorporate the rrats recommendations for regional regulations. it also rejected specific rrat recommendations on anchor and emergency retrieval provisions. subsequent inquiry by senator lieberman and myself revealed that the coast guard did  have any future plan to issue the rrats recommended regulations. this decision by the coast guard was simply  acceptable. in april 1998. senator lieberman and i asked that the coast guard immediately issue the regional regulations. this same request was made by many others in new england. including states environmental departments. regional and local environmental organizations. and private citizens in written comments. and at an april 9. 1998. hearing in newport. rhode island. to its great credit. the coast guard has reevaluated its initial rejection of regional regulations. the coast guard has embraced the rrat recommendations. and has been. making admirable progress of implementing the rrat report. i am pleased to report that the coast guard will publish a proposed regional regulation in the federal register today. because of its proactive reponse to the concerns that senator lieberman and i raised. the coast guard is in position to meet the aggressive. deadlines in the chafeelieberman provision in this years coast guard bill. the chafeelieberman provision. section 311 of the managers amendment to h.r. 2204. directs the coast guard to issue regulations for towing and barge safety for the waters of the theast. including long island sound. section 311 directs the coast guard to give full consideration to each of the regulatory recommendations made by the rrat and explain in detail if any recommendation is  adopted. section 311 directly addresses anchoring and barge retrieval systems on a regional basis only. it is my understanding the coast guard is planning to issue a nationwide national interim final regulation on the anchor requirement by the end of ember 1998. the amendment gives the coast guard the discretion to forego a regional requirement if the national requirement for anchoring and barge retrieval are less stringent than those required for the waters of the theast. though  a part of the chafeelieberman provision adopted in h.r. 2204. i wish to address the issue of fire suppression systems on tugboats. the fire on board the scandia was the critical link inthe chain of events that led to the grounding of the barge th cape and the resultant oil spill. it is my view that the october 1997 proposed rules badly missed the mark on this issue. the coast guard proposal did  require a fire suppression system that would flood the engine room with a gas to extinguish a serious fire. this is a fatal defect in the proposed rule. and is inconsistent with the 1996 coast guard authorization act. the coast guards october 1997 proposal inferred a mandate "to prevent casualties involving barges which are the result of a loss of propulsion of the towing vessel." the 1996 coast guard authorization acts actual mandate is quite explicit: "the secretary shall require * * * the use of a fire suppression system or other measures to provide adequate assurance that fires on board towing vessels can be suppressed under reasonably foreseeable circumstances." this is a clear mandate that onboard equipment be able to suppress reasonably foreseeable fires such as occurred on the scandia. the 1996 statute reflects congress judgment that the preferred alternative is to suppress a fire quickly egh so that damage is limited and propulsive power can be restored if interrupted due to fire fighting efforts. a fixed fire suppression system is an option that any vessel master would desire if faced with an engine room fire that could  be controlled by other means. the proposed regulations used vessel size as a principal criterion. while falling to consider adequately any differential requirements based on the "characteristics. methods of operation. and nature of service" as required by the law. which intentionally omitted size from the list of factors to consider.  all towing vessels are the same when considering the imposition of a requirement for a fixed flooding fire suppression system. specifically. tugboats like the scandia which tow barges on the east coast of the united states. are essentially seagoing vessels with sealable watertight doors and port holes. tow boats operating on rivers and inland waterways are  designed for the same type of service. on these inland vessels. engine rooms may be located on the main deck. and they may have conventional doors and windows. the proposed coast guard rule correctlyed that. looking at towing vessels as a whole. certain types of vessels are "constructed with engine rooms that would  be sufficiently air tight" to be able to use a system that floods the space with a gas to extinguish an outofcontrol blaze. this is certainly true in the case of inland tow boats. tug boats designed for ocean service such as the scandia. if they are operated in a prudent and seamanlike manner. do have the requisite water and air tightness to use a fixed flooding fire suppression system to good advantage. congress specifically required that the proposed regulations account for the variations within the commercial towing fleet. my preference was to simply mandate a fire suppression system for oceangoing tugboats in this years coast guard bill. after hearing the concerns raised by the coast guard and colleagues on the commerce committee. i will  pursue fire suppression changes this year. i look forward to the coast guards new proposal on fire suppression. which is due for publication in january 1999. i expect it will be a marked improvement over the flawed october 1997 proposal. in closing. i again thank my colleagues on the commerce committee for accommodating my concerns on this issue. i also want to thank the coast guard. they could have waited until section 311 became law before starting on the regional regulations. instead. the coast guard. by proposing the regional regulations this very day. has accelerated the date when the theast will have the protection it deserves. finally. i thank my longtime collaborator on oil spill issues. senator joseph lieberman of connecticut. for his steadfast support in this effort.
. today. i am introducing legislation which will allow the private sector to take a more active role in building and operating our nations highway infrastructure. the highway infrastructure privatization act will allow the private -sector to gain access to taxexempt bond financing for a limited number of highway projects. i am pleased that my distinguished colleagues. senators war-
. the amendment before us today represents a far more prudent approach to this sensitive issue. it outlines in detail the serious problems involved in mexico today. and makes it clear that further progress is needed. however. instead of simply clubbing mexico and walking away. this amendment sets very specific benchmarks for improved antidrug efforts by mexico. and requires a progress report from the administration by september 1. among other things. this report must describe the extent to which our two nations have made significant and demonstrable progress on dismantling. drug cartels. improving law enforcement relationships. and increasing cooperation on extradition of mexican drug dealers wanted in the united states. the amendment makes it entirely clear both to this administration and to mexico where the failings have been and what our priorities are. however. under this compromise. nationalist forces will  be incited in mexico. and our diplomatic efforts can continue smoothly. i urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment. thank you.
. on march 14. i came to the floor to intro-. duce s. 445. the waste tire recycling. abatement. and disposal act of 1997. today. i want to make sure that the record is clear on an issue relating to the retreading of radialtype tires. it has come to my attention that my remarks regarding retreading have led to some concern on the part of those engaged in the retreading industry. there are approximately 1.440 retreading plants in the united states. and approximately 90 percent of the retreading plants are independently owned small businesses. in my oral remarks on march 14. i said "the nature of modern steel belted radial tires makes it very difficult to recycle these tires into new ones. once upon a time. old tires were retreaded. as we all k. you can do that with radial tires." while that statement is true with regards to recycling rubber from modern radial tires directly into new radial tires. it is  accurate with respect to retreading of radials. the tire retread information bureau and the international tire and rubber association recently provided me with the information on the retreading of tires in 1996. when a total of 29.1 million tires were retreaded in the united states. this breaks down to approximately 4.2 million passenger car tires. 99 percent of them radials. 7 million light truck tires. 80 percent of them radials. and 16.5 million medium truck tirestires for socalled 18 wheelers. 89 percent of them radials. the remainder are offroad vehicle tires. aircraft tires. and specialty tires. my bill. s. 445. recognizes that retreading tires is an environmentally beneficial fate for tires that would otherwise require immediate disposal. proposed section 4011(d)(1)(b) provides tire retreaders with an exception .to the general prohibition on storage of more than 1.500 unshredded waste tires for a period greater than 7 days. this section affirmatively promotes retreading by allowing retreaders to store at their plants the greater of either 2.500 tires. or a number equal to the number of tires to be retreaded over a 30day period.o
. this is an issue that. in my opinion. was resolved after the administration initially fixed its error last december. unfortunately. the administration has reopened this complicated issue. the appropriations committee has developed a fair solution to a difficult problem and they should be congratulated. i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and support the chairman of the appropriations committee. while we are focused on the distribution of funds to the states i would like to say a few words about the formulas in the context of istea reauthorization. i realize that some members of this body believe that the current formulas that distribute highway funds are neither fair  appropriate. many members argue that various factors. such as interstate highway mileage. state population. highway trust fund contributions. and the number of deficient bridges should be given greater weight or importance in the distribution formula. i think we can all agree that we have a long and difficult task before us in determining the appropriate formula for the next istea. i therefore urge my colleagues to make every effort to work with. rather than against. one aher in crafting a fair distribution formula that benefits the states and the national system alike. thank you.
. i am one who does  there is a sufficient second. question the need for a federal invest- the yeas and nays were ordered. ment in passenger rail. the absence of ote on motion to waive the budget act passenger rail would clog our highways t and airports--an additional 7.500 fully- the presiding officer. the booked 757s. or hundreds of thousands question is on the motion to waive the of cars. would be needed between wash- budget act. the yeas and nays have ington. dc. and new york every year. been ordered. all major industrialized nations pro- the clerk will call the roll. vide subsidies to passenger rail. usually the assistant legislative clerk called to a greater extent than our govern- the roll. ments support for amtrak. in fact. mr. ford. i annce that the senamtrak covers more- of its operating ator from hawaii and the costs--an estimated 84 percentthan senator from south carolina [mr. holany other passenger railroad in the lings] are necessarily absent. world. etheless. amtrak operates the presiding officer. are there the only mode of transportation in the any other senators in the chamber united states which does  have a who desire to vote. dedicated source of funding. the yeas and nays resulted. yeas 77. so the question before the senate nays 21. as follows: today is how best to provide needed [rollcall vote  157 leg.] federal support for amtraks critical yeas77 capital investment needs. after years akaka faircloth mack of congressi6nal hearings. gao reports baucus feingold mcconnell and strategic plans. i and many of my bennett feinstein mikuiski biden ford moseleybraun colleagues have concluded that dedi- bingaran graham moynihan cating a portion of the federal gas tax boxer grassley murkowskl to a rail trust fund is the most appro- breaux hagel murray bryan earkin nickles. priate and reliable means of ensuring brmar hatch res bumprs .atchreed that passenger rail can continue to burns helms reid meet americas transportation needs. byrd hutchinson robb such a solution provides passenger rail campbell hutchison roberts chafee inhofe rockefeller with the same type of federal support cleland jeffords roth for capital improvements that other coats johnson santorum modes of transportation have enjoyed cochran kennedy sarbanes collins kerrey smith (or) for years. conrad kerry se this bills creation of an intercity damato kohl specter passenger rail fund financed by one- daschle landrieu stevens half cent- of the gas tax. coupled with dewine lautenberg thomas dodd leahy thurmond the needed operating reforms con- domenici levin torricelli tained within the amtrak authoriza- dorgan lieberman wellstone tion bill introduced by the senator durbin lott wyden from texas. will allow amtrak to oper- enzi lugar ate more like a business. end its reli- nays21 ance on federal operating subsidies. abraham craig gregg and thus better serve americas trans- allard frist kempthorne portation needs. ashcroft glenn kyl - bond gorton at least for the 3 years that this brownback gramm trust fund is financed. we will start coverdell grams mccain sessions holllngs shelby thompson smith (nh) warner
. i ask unanimous consent that the surface transportation and merchant marine subcommittee of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on tuesday. october 21. 1997. at 2:30 p.m. on s. 803. s. 668. and the domestic cruise ship trade.
. tomorrow morning following the period of morning business the senate will conduct two consecutive rollcall votes beginning at 11 a.m. the first vote will be on cloture on the committee amendment to the istea legislation. to be followed by a vote on passage of the continuing resolution. if cloture is  invoked at 11 a.m. on thursday. it is hoped that the second cloture vote will occur thursday aftern. therefore. members can anticipate rollcall votes throughout thursdays session of the senate. it is the leaders hope thatthe senate can make progress on the highway legislationit is my hope. too. i might addduring tomorrows session. in addition. if any appropriations conference reports become available. it would be expected that the senate consider those reports in short order.
. i think that is very regrettable.  people are backing off and saying lets possibly have a 6month bill. i think that is a disaster. ody can do any longrange planning with a 6month piece of legislation. so i think it is very unfortunate the way this has worked out. i am  sure what the next order of business is or what the next step in connection with this highway legislation will be. but i feel very badly that we did  get cloture so we could go ahead and deal with a good bill. bring up the amendments and vote on them one way or aher. but we were unable to do that. and i regret it.
. i am pleased that the senate has confirmed lt. gen. kenneth r. wykle to be the administrator of the federal highway administration. i must say that we have been waiting quite some time for this day. as the position has been vacant since secretary slater was confirmed in early february. general wykle appeared before the committee on environment and public works on tuesday.. october 28. and i am pleased to report that he is an excellent candidate for the position before him. he has a distinguished 32year record of service with u.s. army. where he led a number of organizations and commands in the united states. europe. and asia. he also has extensive experience in managing the transportation of personnel and cargo by air. highway. rail. and ship. i am confident that he will continue to build on this excellent record as federal highway administrator. in his new position. general wykle will represent the department of transportation and advise the secretary on all matters related to the efficient movement of passengers and freight on the nations transportation system. the federal highway administration is responsible for implementing a wide range of programs. including the federalaid highway program. highway safety programs. motors carrier programs. the federal lands highway program. research and techogy. and international programs. an issue that is on everyones mind is the reauthorization of the intermodal surface transportation efficiency act. or istea. the federal highway administrations role is a critical one in helping to implement this landmark legislation. i look forward to working with general wykle and his staff through the reauthorization process and through the implementation process. once the bill is enacted. it is incumbent upon the federal highway administrator to protect  only the key federal role- in implementing istea ii but also the broad perspective needed to guide the nations transportation system into the next century. the enactment of istea in 1991 transformed what was once simply a highway program into a program  only for building roads and bridges but also for enhancing our mobility. our safety. and the environment. in the second istea. we must move forward and strengthen isteas laudable goals of intermodalism. flexibility and efficiency. i am confident that general wykle has the experience and the kledge to lead the federal highway administration through the challenges ahead.
. i ask unanimous consent that the aviation subcommittee of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on thursday. february 26. 1998. at 2:00 p.m. on air traffic control.
. this as you k is the socalled surface transportation legislation. sometimes called the highway bill. sometimes called istea ii. we are ready to do business here. anybody who has amendments i hope will come over and present them. we are ready to take them up. there is waiting. there is plenty of opportunity. so i hope those within listening distance will heed this very kind invitation to please report for duty. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
he and i have gone round and round about this. but in the final analysis. we have joined hands. so. the people of appalachia. who constitute 22 million people in 399 counties of 13 states--those people who have been promised these corridors  for 32 yearscan  see the light at the end of the tunnel. because what we have agreed to here will be the $300 million that is already in the reported highway bill. plus $1.89 billion. which will be added according to our agreement. thus making a total of $2.19 billion. which conforms to the presidents request. for the entire cycle 19982003. then. there will be $2.19 billion for appalachian highways. that is  going to be earmarked money. that money is going to those 13 states on the basis of the appalachian highway mileage that remains to be constructed and considering the costs of completion. throughout the region. of the total appalachian development highway system. 78 percent of the system has been completed or is under construction. beside and beyond the appalachian portion. this agreement. will benefit every state in the union in terms of additional dollars for highways. i believe i am making a correct statement. the distinguished senator from rhode island. mr. chafee. is ding his head in the affirmative. let me close by thanking him again and by thanking the majority leader. by thanking mr. gramm of texas. mr. baucus. mr. warner. and mr. domeni. it has been a beautiful exercise in give and take.and finally coming to a consensus and shaking hands andsaying. "we are going to stand by this agreement." . i thank all senators. and i thank the chair.
madam president. i salute the distinguished senior senator from west virginia for the tremendous work he did in connection with this.  only just the appalachian regional highway portion of this bill but the overall bill. as the senator mentioned. he was in on all the negotiations and pressed forward to conclusion. he outlined vigorously the needs of. and i dont want to say just west virginia. because west virginia is just part of the appalachian region. he stressed the needs for all the appalachian regional area. and prevailed. i salute him for the work he did. if he can fit it in. i would like to be asked down to the dedication of one of those roads. i have never seen them. to tell you the truth. i think i will go down and take a look. i have heard about them.
thank you. thank you. if it is anything like when we used to build roads at home when i was gover. we would have a ribboncutting about every 2 miles of road we built. in any event. i look forward to it. and i salute the distinguished senator with whom i have had such pleasure serving in the senate ever since i came here. he had been here long before i ever got here. it has been one of the real treats of my experience in the senate to have served with senator byrd.
. i want to thank the distinguished senator from missouri for those kind comments. we have worked closely together. and he has been a valuable member of the committee.  only on highway matters. but in other matters likewise. we look forward to his vigorous support as we move forward with this legislation. . the senator from minnesota. i believe. has matters to discuss.
madam president. before we start. i once again say to anybody who hasnt yet got themessage. i have been authorized by the majority leader to annce that there will be further rollcall votes this evening. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that at 9 a.m. on thursday. immediately following the resumption of the highway bill..senator bingaman be recognized in order to offer an amendment regarding liquor drivethroughs. i further ask unanimous consent that there be 30 minutes for debate. equally divided in the usual form. on that amendment. i further ask consent that immediately following that debate. the amendment be set aside and senator dorgan be recognized to offer an amendment regarding open containers. i ask consent that there be 60 minutes for debate. equally divided in the usual form. on that amendment. finally. i ask consent that at the expiration of that time. at approximately 10:30 a.m. on thursday. the senate proceed to a vote on or in relation. first. to the dorgan amendment. to be followed by a vote on or in relation to the bingaman amendment. i also ask unanimous consent that amendments be in order to the abovementioned amendments.
i will say to anyone who wishes to oppose this amendment. who wishes to speak in opposition.  is the time to come over to speak. as has been pointed out. there are 11 minutes remaining. i will make a couple of comments. . senator bingamans amendment would withhold 5 percent of a states highway construction funds. unless the state enacted or enforced a law prohibiting drivethrough liquor sales byit is my understanding the date  has been changed to october 1. 2000. am i correct in that.
madam president. i rise in support of this amendment offered by my colleague from th dakota. the terrible problem of drunk driving is certainly. as we all recognize. an issue of national importance. in 1996. more than 17.000 lives were lost on our nations highways as a result of alcoholrelated collisions. this represents nearly half of all the fatalities that occur on our roads each year. the laws on how drinking and driving are treated vary from state to state. as mentioned previously. six states allow drivers to operate motor vehicles and drink alcohol at the same time. in over half of the states. even if a driver can drink. all the passengers in the vehicle can drink. madam president. the sad thing is that drunk driving accidents are completely avoidable. there is  a single reason why the driver sitting behind the wheel of a car should be allowed to consume an alcoholic beverage. . madam president. this isnt about freedom and states rights. it is about the rights of a driver against other drivers on the road. shouldnt every individual have a right to travel safely on the highways. there is a lot of discussion here as to. "oh. leave it up to each state." well. as we all k. in my state. you can go across the state in an hour and. clearly. you are either in massachusetts or connecticut very quickly. and so it is in most of the states. we travel from state to state freely. very few peqple stay entirely within the borders of their own state all the time. so we have a right to k that when we go out of our state. if our state should adopt an amendment like this. we will be safe in the other states likewise. i believe the amendment of the senator from th dakota will save lives by keeping alcoholic beverages off the road. this is a workable and fair solution to the problem of open containers and the larger problem of drunk driving. . madam president. we still have time in opposition to the senators amendment. but absent that or whatever he chooses. we have previously committed to  go to a vote until 10:30. i would like to stick by that commitment. even though it might require some dead time here.
. this amendment would allow funds that are allocated under the surface transportation program to be used for programs to reduce motor vehicle emissions caused by extreme coldstart conditions. the problem is that in the thern states when cold weather comes. the starting of an engine is the highest emission point from the engine. ninety percent of engine wear happens when the car is started. the engine wear in cold climate conditions is twice this amount. this amendment has been cleared by both sides. what it 111 do is permit these funds to be used for some kind of heaters that might be installed to warm up the catalytic converter or other aspects of the engine so that when it is started. it will  start cold and will  have the heavy emissions that occur absent some warming techniques.
. i havent heard from the senator from utah. the distinguished chairman of the committee who has power over all these affirmative action programs. why doesnt he go after all of them. that would be a rather magnificent effort. it certainly would shake things up. the senator could come to the senate and try to get rid of all 160 different affirmative action programs. why doesnt he do that instead of picking on the highway program. go after all of them. there is a -suggestion for you. i certainly would  support that effort. but i am saying that if you really want to get into an affirmative action debate. why you dont do that. through your committee.
the senator is exactly right. that is my understanding. my understanding is they are ready to go. one of the most famous reports that one hears in the senate is. so and so "is on his way." "on his way" can mean a lot of things. it can mean circling ronald reagan airport preparing to land. or it could just mean that he has gotten on the elevator and will be here within 45 seconds. so we have heard reports that the finance committee representatives who are going to present that amendment are on their way. again. i am  sure what that exactly means.
. i am delighted to be a cosponsor of this amendment offered by the senator from missouri.  we all recognize trucks are essential to the nations ecoic health. there is argument to that. but we believe allowing increasing the number of the larger trucks to operate on our highway is a dangerous way to increase productivity. tripletrailer trucks impose. i believe. a triple threat to safety. to the environment. and to the highway infrastructure. this amendment is a sense of the senate that we will stay as we are. that is what the underlying legislation does. it does  change what the states allow. or roads they are permitted to operate under . and does  increase the ability to operate where they are  operating . i am for that. i thank the senator for his amendment.
. i k the senator from kansas worked hard on this. and we have worked with him. i am absolutely confident that everything is all set here. meanwhile. etheless. there is a request that has been made. so we will have to defer to that. what i suggest to the senator is. lets set his amendment aside. and as soon as things get clearedwhich i think will be momentarilywe will go right back to it. before we do that. i have several points of clarification on the amendment allowing for the disapproval. by the surface transportation board. of a railbanking request at least half of the local jurisdictions through which the rail corridor proposed for railbanking affirmatively oppose the request. will the senator from kansas confirm my understanding of his amendment.
thank you. first. although it is  explicitly referenced in the wording of the amendment whether its terms would apply to rail corridors that already are railbanked. and which already have been transferred from the railroad to the railbanking agency. it is my understanding that your amendment does  apply to corridors where a ice or certificate of interim trail use under section 1247(d) of title 23. united states code. already has been issued by the surface transportation board. the amendment only will be applied prospectively. am i correct in my understanding.
. the purpose of the amendment offered by my colleague from kansas is to provide clear opportunities for local input into the railbanking process where section 8(d) of the national trails system act is invoked. the national trails system act provides for the preservation of otherwise abandoned rail corridors through interim use as trails. in short. it has allowed railroads wishing to abandon a line to enter into a voluntary agreement with a trailmanaging agency. to turn the abandoned rightofway into a trail for bicycling. walking. smobiling. horseback riding and the like. railbanking is a complex and sensitive issue that is in the jurisdiction of the senate energy and commerce committees. i am pleased that senator brownback has worked with the chairman and ranking members of both of these committees and with the national railstotrails conservancy to come to an agreement that does  limit the development of rail trails or detract from the good work done by the railbanking program.
. i have a series of technical amendments here that are agreeable to both sides. and i will have them considered en bloc. the first is an amendment by senator byrd dealing with a study of the highway and bridge needs and road needs of the country. the second is a moseley:braun safety amendment. the third is a sarbanes amendment dealing with travel plazas. the fourth amendment is from senator moynnian dealing with the pennsylvania station redevelopment corporation board of directors and the membership of that board.
madam president. this amendment gives the secretary of transportation the authority to fulfill our international treaty obligations. it deals with the socalled highway between canada and alaska. it has been cleared by both sides.
madam president. i .also ask unanimous consent that at 10:30 a.m. the senate resume consideration of s. 1173. the highway bill. and immediately proceed to a vote on or in relation to the mccain amendment  1726 regarding demonstration projects.
. if i can briefly explain. these amendments deal with the application of the dbe program to the transit title. inadvertently. these provisions were left out when the original transit title was adopted. these amendments provide for the dbe portion of the transit title. and the second provision deals with the mcconnell modifications to that..the mcconnell modifications were the ones we adopted to the dbe in the highway program yesterday.
worked with us throughout. there was a time when he was  entirely in favor of what . we have come a long way. we are here. and within a short period i hope this measure is voted on final passage. i want to thank ann loomis of my staff. i have never in my 19 years in the senate witnessed a higher dedication and commitment by any person serving in the capacity of the staff than this fine person. together with her assistant. ellen stein. in helping me. we were joined by dan corbett. kathy ruffalo of senator baucus staff. jimmie powell. the staff director. thomas sliter. the miity staff director. as well as cheryl tucker. abigail kinnison. and linda jordan. what a marvelous group. we have worked together in a bipartisan way to achieve this legislation. i hope other members of the staff and the senate recognize. how their peer group throughout the senate workedthose assigned to the highway responsibilities and the legislative offices of every senatorto bring about this bill. we thank all of you. we really got a remarkable piece of legislation and here we are. i think there is one matter still remaining and i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. from my visits to california. i have learned first hand how the traffic coming through the ports- of long beach and los angeles are expected to more than double by the year 2020 with 25% of all u.s. imports coming through these two ports. if we are to realize the benefits of this increased trade. we must improve the efficient movement of the cargo throughout this nation while at the same time taking every step to enhance the safety of the residents of the area and to improve the environment. the senator should be assured that i will give this project every consideration as we move to final enactment of this bill. -
i want to assure the senator from pennsylvania that i am well aware of this project and his support for it. it certainly is commendable when a state will put up 80 percent of any highway project and i thank the senator for his input. which will be helpful as we proceed to a conference with the house.
. i rise today to thank the managers of the 1998 coast guard authorization act for their help in addressing an issue of great importance in rhode island: the safety of the tug and barge industry. the managers amendment to the coast guard authorization act that passed the senate on monday included a provision that will strengthen the regulation of transportation of petroleum by barges in the waters of the theast. i appreciate the cooperation of commerce committee chairman mccain. ranking member hollings. subcommittee chairwoman ss. and ranking member kerry for incorporating my provision into the bill. i especially want to thank the cosponsor of the provision. senator joseph lieberman of connecticut. for his support. we have worked closely on this issue for several years. senator dodd of connecticut also lent his support to the effort. in order to understand why the chaffeelieberman provisions are necessary. you must go back to the 1996 disaster when the tug scandia and barge th cape grounded on the coast of rhode island. after the accident. the environment and public works committee. which i chair. reported a bill to improve towing vessel safety. and important elements of the bill were included in the 1996 coast guard authorization act. my intent in enacting 1996 provisions was to improve safety in the towing industry so as to prevent a repetition of a disaster like the 1996 scandia/th cape spill in block island sound. in october. 1997 the coast guard issued rules to implement the 1996 towing vessel legislation. i and others concluded that the proposed rules might  prevent a repetition of the scandia/ th cape disaster and asked the coast guard to reconsider. the coast guard is  reworking the rules and expect to issue an interim final national rule on anchoring and barge retrieval systems in ember 1998. they will repropose fire suppression regulations in january 1999. senator iaberman and i also were concerned that the proposed rules did  implement the recommendations of the regional risk assessment team or "rrat." which forged a remarkable consensus among coast guard district one. the states. the environmental community. and the regulated industry onrules. to improve safety and reduce risks in the waters of the theast states. the team was assembled by the marine safety office in the first coast guard district shortly after the th cape spill. the rrat met for six months and. in february 1997. delivered a report with extensive regulatory recommendations. regulations were proposed in the following areas: vessel manning. anchors and barge retrieval systems. voyage planning. navigation safety equipment aboard towing vessels. enhanced communications. vessel traffic schemes and exclusion zones. lightering activities. tug escorts. and. crew fatigue. the report was signed by the. rrat steering committee members: the chief of the marine safety division of the first coast guard district. the american waterway operators (on behalf of the regulated industry). save the bay (on behalf of environmental organizations). and the rhode island department of environmental management (on behalf of states participating in the rrat). the coast guard was deeply involved in the rrat process. the first coast guard district facilitated rrat meetings. prepared the agendas and minutes. and lent other administrative support to the effort. in june 1997. the first coast guard district also forwarded its plan to implement the rrat recommendations to coast guard headquarters. it was the expectation of the state. environmental. and industry rrat participants that the rrat recommendations for regional regulations would be included as a part of the rulemaking to implement the towing vessel safety provisions in the coast guard authorization act of 1996. this was a reasonable expectation based upon the level of coast guard involvement in the development of the consensus rrat recommendations. which were then endorsed by the coast guard officer charged with marine safety in the rrat study area. unfortunately. the regulations proposed by the coast guard in october 1997. did  incorporate the rrats recommendations for regional regulations. it also rejected specific rrat recommendations on anchor and emergency retrieval provisions. subsequent inquiry by senator lieberman and myself revealed that the coast guard did  have any future plan to issue the rrats recommended regulations. this decision by the coast guard was simply  acceptable. in april 1998. senator lieberman and i asked that the coast guard immediately issue the regional regulations. this same request was made by many others in new england. including states environmental departments. regional and local environmental organizations. and private citizens in written comments. and at an april 9. 1998. hearing in newport. rhode island. to its great credit. the coast guard has reevaluated its initial rejection of regional regulations. the coast guard has embraced the rrat recommendations. and has been. making admirable progress of implementing the rrat report. i am pleased to report that the coast guard will publish a proposed regional regulation in the federal register today. because of its proactive reponse to the concerns that senator lieberman and i raised. the coast guard is in position to meet the aggressive. deadlines in the chafeelieberman provision in this years coast guard bill. the chafeelieberman provision. section 311 of the managers amendment to h.r. 2204. directs the coast guard to issue regulations for towing and barge safety for the waters of the theast. including long island sound. section 311 directs the coast guard to give full consideration to each of the regulatory recommendations made by the rrat and explain in detail if any recommendation is  adopted. section 311 directly addresses anchoring and barge retrieval systems on a regional basis only. it is my understanding the coast guard is planning to issue a nationwide national interim final regulation on the anchor requirement by the end of ember 1998. the amendment gives the coast guard the discretion to forego a regional requirement if the national requirement for anchoring and barge retrieval are less stringent than those required for the waters of the theast. though  a part of the chafeelieberman provision adopted in h.r. 2204. i wish to address the issue of fire suppression systems on tugboats. the fire on board the scandia was the critical link inthe chain of events that led to the grounding of the barge th cape and the resultant oil spill. it is my view that the october 1997 proposed rules badly missed the mark on this issue. the coast guard proposal did  require a fire suppression system that would flood the engine room with a gas to extinguish a serious fire. this is a fatal defect in the proposed rule. and is inconsistent with the 1996 coast guard authorization act. the coast guards october 1997 proposal inferred a mandate "to prevent casualties involving barges which are the result of a loss of propulsion of the towing vessel." the 1996 coast guard authorization acts actual mandate is quite explicit: "the secretary shall require * * * the use of a fire suppression system or other measures to provide adequate assurance that fires on board towing vessels can be suppressed under reasonably foreseeable circumstances." this is a clear mandate that onboard equipment be able to suppress reasonably foreseeable fires such as occurred on the scandia. the 1996 statute reflects congress judgment that the preferred alternative is to suppress a fire quickly egh so that damage is limited and propulsive power can be restored if interrupted due to fire fighting efforts. a fixed fire suppression system is an option that any vessel master would desire if faced with an engine room fire that could  be controlled by other means. the proposed regulations used vessel size as a principal criterion. while falling to consider adequately any differential requirements based on the "characteristics. methods of operation. and nature of service" as required by the law. which intentionally omitted size from the list of factors to consider.  all towing vessels are the same when considering the imposition of a requirement for a fixed flooding fire suppression system. specifically. tugboats like the scandia which tow barges on the east coast of the united states. are essentially seagoing vessels with sealable watertight doors and port holes. tow boats operating on rivers and inland waterways are  designed for the same type of service. on these inland vessels. engine rooms may be located on the main deck. and they may have conventional doors and windows. the proposed coast guard rule correctlyed that. looking at towing vessels as a whole. certain types of vessels are "constructed with engine rooms that would  be sufficiently air tight" to be able to use a system that floods the space with a gas to extinguish an outofcontrol blaze. this is certainly true in the case of inland tow boats. tug boats designed for ocean service such as the scandia. if they are operated in a prudent and seamanlike manner. do have the requisite water and air tightness to use a fixed flooding fire suppression system to good advantage. congress specifically required that the proposed regulations account for the variations within the commercial towing fleet. my preference was to simply mandate a fire suppression system for oceangoing tugboats in this years coast guard bill. after hearing the concerns raised by the coast guard and colleagues on the commerce committee. i will  pursue fire suppression changes this year. i look forward to the coast guards new proposal on fire suppression. which is due for publication in january 1999. i expect it will be a marked improvement over the flawed october 1997 proposal. in closing. i again thank my colleagues on the commerce committee for accommodating my concerns on this issue. i also want to thank the coast guard. they could have waited until section 311 became law before starting on the regional regulations. instead. the coast guard. by proposing the regional regulations this very day. has accelerated the date when the theast will have the protection it deserves. finally. i thank my longtime collaborator on oil spill issues. senator joseph lieberman of connecticut. for his steadfast support in this effort.
. it was interesting to see a recent news release from the world bank and the international development association anncing a $17 million loan for the modernization of the tunisian railroad system. since our total share of world bankida funds is about 33.8 percent. it would seem that our contribution toward improvement of tunisias railroads is on the order of $5.670.000.  of course i am delighted to hear that this fine th african country will soon have the most modern of transportation facilities. but it does seem ironic that while the desert will flower. commuters in connecticut and new york are but crushedpetals doing battle to gain federal assistance for modernization of rail facilities. mass transit in the theast is a national disgrace. i wonder if connecticut could apply to the world bank for a railroad modernization grant.
. i am introducing today a bill titled the "federal transportation act." this piece of legislation has been designed to unsnarl the chaotic transportation mess that exists in our nation today. there is question in my mind that unless we engage in new thinking and create new policies in the field of transportation. the united states in the 1970s will provide more inefficient transportation than it did in the 1950s. in that 20year interval. we have engaged both in the government sector and the private sector in a headlong dash of expansion of transport facilities for the sake of expansion. the key to the next 20 years must be service. in order to properly understand this legislation. it is necessary to view the deeds of the past and the trends of the future. one of our great national strengths is the unbounded enthusiasm which we as a nation generate for a particular project at a particular moment of time. the american people have. at one time or aher. exploded enthusiastically for a short period of time for a particular mode of transportation. for example. the fifties and sixties will go down in our history. i am sure. as an unparalleled period of highway construction. the sixties have been rened for large airport construction. the twenties and thirties for railroads. the early 20th century for waterways.  all of these projects taken individually are highly commendable. but certainly one can argue that they are interrelated. and so today. airports sit in the middle of here. unattended by rail or highway links. highways do  connect with rail terminals. bus systems do  relate to railroads. and so on. the answer always seems to be aher highway. aher airport. aher railroad. aher port. rather than fully utilizing and locking together the pieces of our national transportation jigsaw puzzle. why does this situation continue. the reasons are twofold: first. aside from the lipservice given at the state and federal level by various department heads as to coordination. there has been way heretofore to insist that such coordination take place. human nature being what it is. each department pushes only the projects within its area of expertise. each department head continues to build his own empire. coordination is never reduced to writing. but rather remains the subject of occasional lunch meetings or news media interviews. the second stumbling block has been the emous pressure exerted at the state and federal levels by transportation lobby groups and by elected officials whose reelection depends on gaining a transportation bone for their particular political subdivision. this bill attacks both of these problems in the following ways. first. it says to the states that federal money will be expended for any particular transportation project unless it can be clearly shown that the project is part of an overall transportation plan for the state. second. it sets up a transportation trust fund which is distributed  on the basis of political emergencies or national fads. but rather on a formula basis that takes into account land area. population. and centers of largest populations. i k that this type of legislation is going to involve an eyeballtoeyeball confrontation between new concepts and the old ways of doing things. but certainly. the past several years. months. weeks. and even days have produced example upon example of collapsing rail systems. throttled airports. and superhighways that have become super parking lots. by 1975. there will be 30 million more people in the united states than there are today. there will be 20 million more cars. there will be four landings and takeoffs for every one today. if the demand for transportation keeps pace with the ecoy. then during the next 20 years our transportation network must double. unless something is done. the keepoureabovewater policies of today will result in a drowning within 6 years. the biggest mistake this nation could make would be to expend additional millions on transportation and have the facilities so created conform to the system as it exists today. just the numbers involved in what is the biggest consumer service in the united states today will demand ingenuity. creativity. and the courage to stand up to what exists but does  serve particularly well. that is the type of action the american traveler expects from the american politician.
remarks were offered in connection with his introduction of a bill which he entitled the "federal transportation act." aimed at encouraging coordinated state transportation planning. interrelated with neighboring state plans. and which bill would create a "transportation trust fund" from which. apparently. federal assistance in support of the various forms of air and surface transportation systems would be drawn. i am  prepared to say that the weicker bills language and provisions could  be improved upon. but i am convinced that it points us in the right direction. and i plan to be a cosponsor of it with him when he reintroduces it in the near future. for piecemeal programs and piecemeal "solutions." whether emanating from downtown or cultivated here on capitol hill. can produce neither a true national transportation policy  a balanced national transportation system. this is why. though recognizing the problem areas to which they are addressed. i view with some concern such wellintentioned proposals in the transportation field as those made by the president. himself. recently for a trustfund supported airport and airways developmental program. or by such legislators as senatr williams. of new jersey. and others including several house members for a trustfund supported program to relieve the increasingly urgent commutercrunch in the mass transit area. to my mind. these are after the nature of crash programs. aimed at financing a single type of service. and which. though perhaps needed. do  help move us in the direction of a balanced transportation system based on a soundly planned national transportation policy. which is precisely what we  lack. one can well forecast the kind of hurdles a proposal such as that made by  along the lines i have been suggesting. in the meantime. i believe we here in congress must do what we can to save what remains of intercity rail passenger service as at least a base on which to eventually rebuild such a service. for it will surely be needed. thus. we should proceed with early committee consideration of what mrs. brown has had to say. making the kind of basic study needed to determine how much intercity railway passenger service the public interest demands. both for present needs and to preserve a foundation on which to build so as to meet projected future needs. perhaps through extension of the metroliner concept. finding out how much that present level of minimum service will cost to maintain. and working with railroad management to determine some cooperative arrangement for financing such service until a broader and more permanent plan. perhaps along mr. w.ickers suggested lines. can be worked out. as mrs. brown es in her covering letter to the aforementioned committees. a bill to accomplish her basic recommendations is already pending before our committee on interstate and foreign commerce. this is h.r. 12084. as introduced by the gentleman from kansas
. throughout my section of the country and indeed in all areas of the united states. there are airports that are totally tied up. rail systems that have been allowed to disintegrate. urban bus systems that are more. and highways that are just one long parking lot. in fact. it can be said that although there may be 1.000 transportation happenings in the united states. there is transportation system. several months ago. i pointed out that if. in the future. we are going to spend money on transportation as we have spent transportation funds in the past. then such expenditures will be a waste. at that time i urged the congress to prevent the waste of transit funds by requiring future expenditures to embody the new concepts that are essential to unraveling our national transportation snarl. yet today in the department of transportation appropriation bill. congress continues the policies of the past for  only does this bill fail to coordinate the expenditures of federal transportation moneys. it cuts back funds in vital areas of rail transportation and urban mass transit. we live in the age of the automobile and airplane. because of the emphasis on these two modes of transit. it is difficult to convince my colleagues of the urgency of a mass transportation solution. i would like to point out. however. that as the population of the nation continues to grow. the rural areas of today will find themselves in the 1970s. 1980s. and 1990s facing a similar situation as occurred in my section of the country in the 1940s. 1950s. and 1960s. when this time comes. if the present transportation trends are  reversed and new direction taken to coordinate our transportation systems. the rural areas will find. more airplanes overhead. more airports using up open space. more highways creating new traffic problems and more cars infringing on the environment. the indisputable fact is that even in this day and age of advanced techogy. the railroad is the one means of transportation that can carry the greatest number of people with speed and comfort and with the least imposition on the environment. i do  speak out against the highway trust fund. i do  speak out against the concept of an airport trust fund or a mass transit trust fund. but  one of these modes of transportation can serve the nation by itself. i am for all of these modes of transportation. but i am for them in a balanced and integrated way. this appropriation bill makes the mistake of playing to the transportation system that is most current in the public spotlight rather than providing a balance of funding in ratio to our overall transportation needs. it does  insist upon coordination and. therefore. provides for continuation of a policy that perpetuates transportation happenings rather than a transportation system. where are the provisions in this bill that say if you build a federal highway you have to coordinate its exits with rail links. where are the provisions in the bill to construct rail links between airports and urban centers. i can assure my colleagues that unless such conditions are attached to federal appropriation bills. ody is going to plan these coordinated transit systems on their own. it is incredible. that the focal point of the debate on this bill is the supersonic transport project which is involved in getting from new york to europe when thousands of people can even travel without difficulty from walk. stamford. and greenwich. conn.. to new york. it may seem almost impossible to conceive that a single transportation trust fund will ever be established to fund a coordinated transit system. however. until there is such a fund. the united states will continue to build more modes of transportation. but it will  be better transportation.
. new york state and my state of connecticut have acted concurrently in adopting legislation to authorize cooperative and joint measures to provide continuation and improvement of essential rail passenger service on the new haven division of the penn central railroad. the other body has given consent to this connecticutnew york railroad passenger transportation compact and i urge the house to take similar action. under this compact. connecticut and new york pledge bistate operation of rail service over the former new haven rail line which is  kn as the westend division of the penn central. new york and connecticut have pledged $28.4 million for a modernization program to provide new equipment and upgrading of the railroad to provide safe. speedy. and efficient service. the federal government has pledged an additional $28.4 million to the program. over the years minimal maintenance by the bankrupt new haven railroad has resulted in deplorable conditions on this vital rail link between new england and the metropolitan new york area. equipment was strained to the point of maximum endurance. railroad tracks. signals. and overhead electrical wires were neglected and taxed by continued service and wear. when the penn central took over the railroad earlier this year. it was estimated that if a crash maintenance program were  undertaken. the line would be forced to discontinue service within a 30day period. this is what the more than 20.000 commuters from my district face daily. the cars are dingy and dirty. in the rush hours. insufficient equipment causes crowding and further discomfort. breakdowns are frequent. which is the rule rather than the exception. trains run late or are canceled. in this day and age when we can send men to the moon and bring them back to earth within 3 miles of a given target. we can get a train from fairfield county. conn. to new york without breakdowns and delays. if any of my colleagues feel that this is an exaggeration. i invite you to read the thousands of letters i have received commenting on equipment and service on this major rail link. by approving the connecticutnew york railroad passenger compact. the congress will set the stage to eliminate these deplorable travel conditions and provide relief for the longsuffering commuters. at the same time the congress will show its concern for a mode of transportation that has been the stepchild of the industry in recent years. the railroad is still the best means of transporting large numbers of people short distances with efficiency. speed. and safety. yet despite these qualifications. state governments and the federal government have paid comparatively little attention to the plight and condition of our railroads as our national attention is transfixed on the highway and the airplane. i am  advocating that we  revert our attention to the railroad and forget about these other modes of transportation. i feel that we need a balance in our thinking about our national transportation system. over the years. we have had thousands )f transportation happenings. but we do iot have transportation systems. we nust have coordination of our modes of .ransportation so that each complements and supplements each other. in the theast. we need immediate improvement and further development of rail service to supplement the vast highway network that pours cars. with all the traffic problems. into the urban centers. we need rail and urban mass transit links to airports to complement the highway network. to do this. we must bring our rail transportation systems up to a standard so that they can fulfill their roles in a coordinated transit system. the connecticutnew york railroad passenger transportation compact sets the stage for this needed rail link improvement.
. i think it clearly is an interstate problem and breaks down in the following way: population patterns and commercial and commuting patterns will determine as to what entities of government have to come together. it could very well be that on longhaul passenger service. the states of new york. connecticut. rhode island. and massachusetts will have to get together. this compact relates to the west end commuter service. this is the problem of connecticut and new york. it could well be that there are problems that exist between new jersey and new york. it could very well be that on the boston run. or the eastern end of the service. connecticut. rhode island. and massachusetts will have to get together. commuting patterns determine which entries of government have to get together in order to coordinate their efforts. the west end commuting service. the west end service of the new haven division of penn central railroad. is what we are referring to here today. there is only one form of transportation that can take large numbers of people over a limited area and that is the railroad. so this is  just the problem of connecticut and new york or massachusetts. some day it will be the problem of our sister states. maybe they do  have the population . but they will. and unless they want to see their land decimated by highway after highway and airport after airport. they had better put their efforts to providing this kind of coordination. and superior rail service. this is the attempt of a part of the theast to bring some order out of chaos and supply such transportation.
. in this year of hard choices. i think the time has come to insist that 6 billion travel happenings be accomplishedbe accomplished safelybe accomplished excellently. the real prestige of america rises and falls on how well it does by its people. move 6 billion people well and you k democracy works.  just in the eyes of the world. but in the eyes of the 6 billion. and that is a priority197172 style. tomorrow. when i vote against the sst. it will be a vote for mass transit.
. from the actions of the congress. the appearance has been given the american public that a brighter day lies ahead for rail transportation in the united states. certainly the machinery exists to realize such a day. however. miserly funding for both urban mass transportation and intercity rail transportation holds back the dawn. today i will confine my comments to the situation at amtrak. although what is said here is equally applicable to urban mass transportation. when amtrak came into being. few people realized that the american public was to get yesterdays trains painted in todays political rhetoric.  we need rhetoric to make congress and the administration aware of the appalling deficiencies in rail transportation. but rhetoric is  going to move one human being from boston to new york. seattle to chicago. washington to atlanta or dallas to los angeles. new equipment will. amtrak exists. but it can create. existing is running the same equipment over the same roadbeds in the same time. the result can only be the same as that which drove us to create amtrak in the first placethe slow atrophication and death of railroad passenger service. creating is operating highspeed trains in heavily populated corridors. trains which will compete directly with the airlines and highways giving the united states a triple transportation capability. the new trains should be run like jetliners.  like steam locomotives. they should have the services of modern travel such as meals. central baggage handling. automated reservation systems. a "bubblegumandbailingwire" mentality is  what the nation expects in the execution of its new ideas. i am today introducing legislation to get amtrack in the business of futuristic railroading rather than contemporary pacifying. the bill is simple. it authorizes a $90 million payment to amtrak specifically for the purchase of highspeed trains which can utilize todays roadbeds based on current cost estimates. this amount will purchase 30 trains capable of carrying 240 passengers each. the need and the opportunity for this kind of train is startlingly obvious. today. approximately 40 percent of all domestic air flights are under 350 miles. today. there are 2.928 flights per day of less than 350 miles operating in the densely populated corridors centered on atlanta. chicago. dallas. los angeles. and new york alone. today. underutilized railroad stations exist in the centers of our major cities while overcrowded airports are often up to an hour from the cities they serve. today. air and highway traffic congestion are such that it is often faster to ride a conventional trainlet alone a highspeed trainbetween cities. than it is to fly. today land costs and public opposition are increasingly limiting our ability to expand airports and highways. while existing rails sit idle. today the cost of a oneway plane ticket from new york to washington is $27 plus bus or taxi fares to and from the airports. conventional train service costs $13 and eliminates the need for supplemental transportation. today airlines lose far more on short routes than on any other portion of their business. today the metroliner between new york and washington and the turbotrain between boston and new york operate at 60 to 65 percent of capacityfar above conventional trains and even above planes operating along the same routes. the need. then. for highspeed rail service is here. but the highspeed trains are . last year we launched an ideaamtrak. today i propose that we launch a traina train which will attract passengers because it is comfortable. fast and ecoical. a train which will reduce highway and airway congestion. and will provide an important first step toward a truly balanced national transportation system. thirty highspeed trains running on routes of 200 to 350 miles can make 90 oneway trips per day. assuming a capacity of 240 passengers and a load factor of only 50 percent. this means 10.800 passengers per day and 3.942.000 per year. at an average fare of $20 per trip. this would mean revenues of $79 million a year for amtrakwell covering the cost of operating such a service. these trains can use todays roadbeds a fact  to gloss over. it is estimated that the cost of straightening the track between boston and new york alone would be $1 billion. with the techogy already developed these costs are largely eliminated. in 1970 we set up amtrak with a onetime appropriation of $40 million and loan guarantees of up to $100 millionthis for a railroad passenger system which was losing $200 million annually. it was said at the time by the proponents of amtrak that such initial financing could only constitute a holding operation. i  propose to move rather than hold with an additional authorization and appropriation of $90 million--seemingly a large amount until it is put into perspective. during the coming year we will be asked to spend $3 billion for interstate highways and an additional $1 billion for primary. secondary and urban highways. traffic and highway safety programs alone will cost $185 million. highway beautification will come to $66.3 million and research and administration for the highway program will add $93 million more. the interstate commerce commission. which only regulates the railroads. will receive $27 million. most important. i am proposing a oneshot capital grant. while these other programs will continue indefinitely. spending many billions far into the future. also. in calling for a capital grant for amtrak. i am stating my firm opposition to endless operating subsidies for passenger servicea fate to which the corporation is  predestined. by providing new equipment and allowing amtrak to provide the kind of service needed to attract public support. we give them the tools to do the job they were created to doto run a modern. efficient rail passenger networkat a profit. in effect. what happened on may 1 of this year was that the american people became the board of directors of amtrak. they do  expect the kind of tired thinking and whining for subsidies that emptied :the tracks of american railroads. they expect us to make america move by writing.  repeating the book. by mr. buckley:
the original l1011 was to be used from one small airport to aher small airport. then the emphasis changed to the threeengine aircraft. the one with which we are dealing today. with transcontinental range capability. and by late 1967. the airplanes gross weight had gone up 320.000 pounds. because of the addition of the third engine. the thrust requirement had dropped to approximately 33.000 to 35.000 pounds. so what we are talking about is this air bus that was supposed to go from new york to chicago and chicago to the west coast. transcontinental in nature. and this is one of the very reasons why we have the problems with it that exist today. quite frankly. the change took place from an airbus with a limited range to a transcontinental plane which is in direct competition with the 747.
i would be glad to discuss the senator from georgias comments relative to the airlines. the key to his comment is his first statement that the airlines speak for the passengers. unfortunately. this was  the case. and it is the very reason why the airlines right  have on their hands a great deal of equipment that they are flying at only onethird capacity. they do  speak for the passengers. quite frankly. there is question in my mind that the 747 is a great plane. there is question in my mind that it has a great engine. manufactured in the state of connecticut. and there is also doubt in my mind that the airlines in this case got together with the boeing co. to produce an airplane that was  timely in -its arrival on the scene. it is one of the reasons why the airlines are in the hole in which they are today. in fact. the country was  ready for the capacity of the 747. quite frankly. i do  think the passengers speak for the airlines today. i think the airlines and boeing in this particular instance got together to contrive this product. which was too far ahead of its time. and which. anyone will admit. has contributed to the weak financial picture of the airlines today. i might add that that picture is  going to be improved by the l1011. which is  a competitor of the 747 as a transcontinental airplane and is increasing the capacity. the senator from georgia touches i upon the overall problem of the airline industry. which is. in large measure.  due only to the injudiciousness of the decisions by the airlines and airframe manufacturers. but. let us be frank about it. is due also to a rather outdated point of view or misguided point of view on the part of the regulatory agencies. in other i words. government has had a part in - bringing about their financial plight. just as the airlines contributed to their - own financial plight with overscheduling. it is the mixing of all these facts that has put them in poor financial * shape. i suggest to the senator from georgia that i do  think the passengers are demanding aher airbus. there are already two. the first one  flying at capacity. the 747. the other on stream in mcdonnell douglas. the dc10. and  this would add a third. some way will have to be found for them to try to hold this down. as in the case of someone like me who has a weight problem. i think the airlines have to push themselves away from the table until the capacity is there. it is  there. this is one reason why the taxpayers are being asked to put up the $250 million.
if the senator will allow me to finish. we are discussing an airframe manufacturer in this case. as compared to the penn central. if we are discussing the airlines or a specific airline as compared with the penn central. that is different. that is  the comparison that is being made here. let me get back to the penn central. it is a highly regulated company. lockheed is  regulated. i might add that the penn central happens to be in bankruptcy. and lockheed is . i would also add that the people of the united states. through amtrak.  own the intercity passenger service of the penn central. the people of the united states are  going to own anything that belongs to lockheed. i have the hearings of the senators committee in which the penn central case is gone over very carefully. the request for government support originated. basically. on february 24. 1970. the hearings chroogically list the events that transpired between february of 1970 and the time the penn central finally got -ts loan guarantee. i might addand i am  quotingon friday. june 19. the administration withdrew its support of the loan guarantee. and on june 21. the penn central filed for bankruptcy. in other words. in this particular instance. bankruptcy was required by the administration and the congress. and it was  until january 13. 1971. almost one year laterhaving insisted that the penn central go into bankruptcythat the company got a guarantee. one year. yet. we are asked to do this here in a matter of a few days. without any requirements of bankruptcy. without gaining a hold on any of the assets and having them in hand. i do  think there is any comparison at all betweei the penn central case and what is being requested of the senate. i should  like to comment upon aher matter. but i find it a little difficult. since the senator from texas has left the chamber. i will wait until he returns.
. certainly i would hope this body will place proper emphasis on our transportation needs and on mass transportation. as embodied in the amendment of my colleague from connecticut . if this amendment fails. it is my intention. and the intention of others. to see that this money is  applied to the highway trust fund. cxvii2575part 31 i think the time is long past to do something for mass transit. when we have plastered our country with highways. and when i and everyone else pay highway taxes. and i do  want to let the construction industry feel that we are against highwayswe are but we want to be able to move. whether it is by car or rail or plane.
. material that has been produced by advocates of the trust fund refers to the fact that this fund was created in 1956. as if implying that its age gives to it some special standing whereby it should  be tampered with. in my mind. when we have been 15 years on any program. that is a good time to reevaluate it and see what we have. there is  one of us who is  painfully aware that even though we have built more and better highways throughout the country. the american public moves slower today than it did in 1956. so whatever the concept and however good it was. the fact remains that it is incomplete. that there is a missing ingredient. it is  very hard to find out what that missing ingredient is. comparing figures of expenditures for various forms of transportation in the last several years. the figures for 1970. 1971. 1972 show that the nation spent on aviation $1 billion in 1970 and $1.9 billion in 1971. and the figure will be $2 billion for 1972. during that same period. highway expenditures rose from $4.3 billion to $4.6 billion and  to almost $4.7 billion. railroad expenditures went from $16 million to $47 million to $56 million. mass transit spending went from $106 million to $327 million. broken down into percentages. so far as transportation is concerned. aviation in 1972 holds about 27 percent of the transportation budget. highways hold about 60 percent of the transportation budget. and rail. both intercity and mass transit. about 5 percent. i think that clearly paints the picture as to why we can move. any good transportation system has to have three ingredientshighway. rail. and airbut the fact remains that the rail portion is existent. the other question which comes to my mind is. who is speaking for the traveler. i am  asking. who is speaking for the aaa or for the highway construction industry. or for the automobile industry. but. who is speaking for the traveler. certainly. when any sort of automobile association or highway construction group puts forth the arguments that those of us who pay our taxesor user charges. if you willexpect those taxes to go into highways. it is  speaking for me. i own my car. and i like to use it. but the fact is that because we do  have a balanced transportation system. i can use it freely or move about as i would like to. so i should like very much to see a portion of the user taxes on highways go to rail. and go to air. if necessary. in order that the present system can be balanced and i can enjoy my travels by whatever mode. the object of congress in the area of transportation is to legislate  in the direction of any special interest. whether it is the automobile industry or highway construction industry. but to legislate a good and a balanced transportation system. and good transportation is  just highway transportation. in respect to the program itself. 1 think it also important to point out that interstate highways were  designed to be commuter roads. and to the extent that the traffic jams are caused by commuters. the highway lobby should be delighted to go ahead to spend some highway taxes toward mass transportation. moving on to aher area. the argument has been put forward that these moneys. this $350 million. from the general revenues to be brought into the highway trust fund will be used to enhance highway safety. that the logical area from which to take money is the alcohol and tobacco portion of our general revenues. i think that is ironic. the only possible connection is that of the 55.000 people who die on the highways every year. about onehalf of them have been drinking. that is about the only connection. may i point out that if we had decent mass transit in the nation. we could probably cut the number of these deaths in half. but the argument that we should put that money into safety programs in the highway trust fund makes absolutely sense at all. the problem is created by the highspeed highways. the problem is created by highspeed automobiles. so. in effect. even though one labels it a safety program. it is actually aher subsidy to highway construction and to the automobile business of the nation. there are 55.000 people killed annually on the highways of this country. and in fiscal 1972 we will spend an estimated $128 million on highway safety programs alone. compare that. please. with the figure which i cited earlier. when i said that the entire federal expenditure for railroads. which would be principally intercity. is $56 million.
i appreciate the correction of the senator from utah. the estimated $128 million is just for the highway safety program and $56 million is allocated to all intercity railroad transportation. or to put it again in terms of mass transportation in the united states. $128 million for highway safety programs alone. and the amount to be allocated in 1972 to mass transit will be $327 million. so that is only about onehalf the amount that will be spent on mass transit. or let us put the two together: i estimate that in 1972 we will spend $383 million for all forms of rail transportation in the united states. and just on highway safety alone. $128 million. so i think that if we want to have a real safety program in our nation. if we want to eliminate a good portion of the killing of 55.000 people each year. perhaps we can take this kind of money and allocate it to rail transportation. as i have said. i speak against the earmarking principle. but if we are going to earmark money from alcohol and tobacco taxes. i think the more logical area would be to conquer drug abuse. but certainly  for the highway trust fund. . how much time remains to the proponents of senator percys amendment.
they are a different group of people . the fact is the highway trust fund exists. it is a fact of life. their comments relate to this particular "grab"-if we want to call it that--by the trust fund into the area of general revenue. that is what they are objecting to.
. my second point isand i want to make it clear. because i work with the senator from west virginia in his capacity as chairman of the committee on public workseven though we might have some disagreement on this issue. man in the united states is more dedicated to transportation than the senator from west virginia. certainly his many years of work prove it. so i do  want anybody to be misled by the intensity of the words in this debate into thinking that i have anything but the highest respect for the senator. i think he has done a tremendous service for the united states. he mentions the word "mobility." that is what the whole argument is about. mobility does  necessarily mean *more highways in the united states of america. mobility is what we are supposed to achieve. we are  supposed to achieve subsidies for the automobile industry or the highway construction industry. we are supposed to have mobility. and we have less mobility in the nation today than we did in 1956 when the highway trust fund was started. i repeat. if one does  believe that statement. go out and try to move about. the point is made that the public intends that these moneys which they pay when they buy gasoline or pay the taxes should go into the highway trust fund. they expect the money to go into highways. i am sorry. that is  the way i intend my money to be used. i want to move. if that means getting some automobiles off the highways and into mass transit. that is exactly the way i would like to have that money used. and as many other americans would like to have it used.
in a minute. i want to answer some of the comments made by the senator from west virginia and the senator from louisiana. the senator from west virginia made the point that tens of thousands of young children in the state of connecticut are going to school today on roads built by these particular funds. the sad story is that there may be tens of thousands of children on the roads in connecticutthere are also tens of thousands of adultsbut one is moving in connecticut. there is just one big parking lot.
let us focus on this pennypinching point relative to the highways. i think that is a good point. in 1972 the amount estimated to be spent on highways is $4.699 billion. in that same period of time does the senator k what is going to possibly be spent on mass transit. $327 million. and $56 million on intercity rail. for a total. roughly. of $375 million. does the senator realize that the small amount of money which they are trying to divert from the general funds to the highway trust fund. some $350 million. comprises the entire budget for mass transportation and rail transportation in the united states. and for the highway trust fund. $4 billion. penny pinching. yes. it is penny pinching and. yes. we are 50 years behind the times when it comes to mass transportation. we are  50 years behind the times when it comes to highway building. mind you. . i do  speak here against the program for highway building. i am speaking  for a balanced transportation system. one of the arguments made by the senator from west virginia was. "look at the jobs this will create." there is one thing i have learned in my short tenure in the senate. when the cause is weak. whether lockheed. the sst. or the highway trust fund. out comes the makework argument.
my comment on that is that i get back to my opening comments this morning. it seems in this particular instance that we are following the rule that the best defense is a good offense. i am  attacking the highway trust fund. we are  trying to whittle down the highway trust fund. it is the highway trust fund. this provision in the bill. that is raiding the general funds. let us make that clear. this is  an attack against the highway trust fund. it is trying to repel an attack against the general revenues of the people of this country.
. first of all. let me respond to the senator from west virginia in his comments that in our mass transportation of the future. the bus is going to play a very important role.i agree with him. there is question about that. i think it is a very overlooked area today. but. as the senator has indicated. many of our communities are too small to go into the mass transit system such as we have in new york or washington. let me make one point clear. so that everyone understands that i am pleading a cause and  a particular role as a partisan republican or as somebody wedded to the other side of this particular argument. the highway trust fund. whether it is the impetus given mass transportation by the white house or whether it is the impetus given by the democratic leadership. as represented by the distinguished senator from louisiana. the chairman of the finance committee. i think the progress on mass transit is too slow. i am pleading a cause for a balanced transportation system. and that includes highways. certainly. there is balance at all today between the highways and the mass transportation aspects. i think my friends downtown are going far too slow on this. and so is the committee chaired by the distinguished senator from louisiana going too slow. except insofar as it is putting a grab on for additional money for the highway trust fund.
. i thought the job of this body was to lead. to be out in front of the issues of our time and the needs of our time. i have heard the comment made here. and i can understand it. and i have been given the impression that there are those in this body necessarily the senator from louisiana and the senator from west virginiawho believe that mass transit is something that relates to the crowded corridors of our nation. principally in the theast and certain areas in the midwest and the west coast. and that it is  a problem for the rest of the nation. i just want to give the example again as to this city of washington. d.c. we are in the process of constructing a mass transit system about 50 years late. and the net result is that this system is going to cost about 50 times as much and is going to take 50 times as long. connecticuts problem and new yorks problem and chicagos problem and los angeles problem today is very clearly going to be the problem of a great growth area such as new orleans. atlanta. houstonand i can go down the list of burgeoning cities of this country. we are supposed to sit by and say. "there is  egh political pressure. so let us  confront the problem." we k that 50 years from  people will have to dig down in their pockets and pay a great deal more money for what we should have planned for on this floor today. i think the job of the senate is to lead. we see the imbalance of the allocation of our transportation moneys. i am  pleading education or anything else. i am speaking in the framework of our allocation of moneys for transportation. when we see. under the conditions that exist today. $4.7 billion go to highways and a paltry $375 million. the same amount that is being raided out of the general fund. go into mass transit. it seems to me that we have abdicated our leadership position. i understand that in some areas of the country a greater mobility is going to mean more highways. so i believe the system should be flexible. i should  go around reciting my experiences and my solutions to the plains of kansas. perhaps their need is for highways. but there is balance in this system. there is balance in the allocation of funds. again. i get down to the fact that we can talk theory on the floor of the senate until we are blue in the face. but we k that once outside in the world we can move. that is a fact of life. bumper to bumper_ on the highway. stacked up in the air. and rail transportation. that is the story. pure and simple. and it does  take a great genius to figure out where the fault lies. it remains true today as it did many years ago: you pay hing. you get hing and that is exactly what we have. we do  have a transportation system in the united states. we have a thousand transportation happenings. but we do  have a transportation system. that is the essence of the argument that is going back and forth here today to go ahead and minimize the importance of our highways. but to plead that balance be given to the system. this money is being taken out of the general fund. and it could very well be money that might go into mass transit. so in that respect it does hurt the cause of balanced transportation. as i said earlier. i can argue against the tactic of the best defense being an offense. but that is the only justification that could be put forth for this particular grab at the general fund
 it was defeated because people are fed up with the way transportation is being designed. it is  a question of more money. it is a question of how we spend it. that is the issue here today. are we going to continue with this plan devised in 1956. and end up with a highway system and  be able to move about. or have a balanced program and realize that mass transit may be the answer. it is the way we spend the money. and that is what we speak for. to make sure this money is  diverted to the highways.
. to sum up what this involves. two basic things in the pending bill are wrong. we are violating the integrity of the trust fund when we go into the general revenue. it is  a raid by those of us who -are against the trust fund. it is a raid by the highway trust fund against the general revenue funds of this nation. that is bad financing. that is bad transportation policy. it is also bad because if there is one aspect of transportation in this nation that has been given adequate emphasis it is highways. section 402 of this act does  stand to the credit of those who are responsible fiscally or those who are responsible transportationally. we have thousands of transportation happenings in this nation. we do  have a system. i would hope that we could bring ourselves to focus on a better balance. a better distribution of the funds. however. that argument will be made in future days. the argument today is against an unwarranted raid by the highway trust fund on the desperately short general revenues of the country.
. i wish to ask my colleague from west virginia about the integrity of the general fund. the senator keeps referring to the integrity of the highway trust fund. what is at issue this morning is the integrity of the general fund because it is that fund that is being dipped into by the highway trust fund. one is dipping into the highway trust fund. it is the other way around. i hope we have legislation before this body shortly to rectify the situation.  how about the integrity of the general fund.
i think when we do that we fulfill the highest purposes of our job. otherwise. we bump along case by case and keep the country in a constant state of anxiety as these labor disputes arise. i think the nation has had it right up. to here insofar as a few peoplebe they industry or be they labordisrupting life in the united states. but we are  going to resolve that problem by moving from a rail strike to an airline strike to a dock strike. et cetera. we are only going to correct that situation by setting up general legislation which would be there for all to see. for all to evaluate. .
. we are confronted today with an imbalance in our transportation system. and it is mystery. all one has to do is take a look at the billions of dollars spent on highways as a form of transportation and the millons of dollars spent on rail and mass transportation and it is readily understood why the imbalance exists. if the object of the senates work is to reinforce old theories rather than to move people then allocate a pittance to mass transit and a pile to highways. that is why the american people can move any faster today than they did 20 years ago in spite of billions spent on endless ribbons of concrete. therefore. when the senator from new york requests $800 million over the next 2 years let us understand that in the same period of time. and i have to reach back from memory for this. we will spend roughly $10 billion on highways. if the results coming from that expenditure of money moved americans better we would all commend such an allocation of funds. but the fact is it does  and will . i speak strongly in behalf of this amendment in the hope that we do  doom mass transportation. rail transportation. in the united states. to failure before we start. i think it is time for congress and the american people to realize that other form of traaisportation takes so many people over so small a piece of real estate. i think americans are fed up with a toll of 55.000 people who die on our highways each yeax. i think people are fed up with asphalt and concrete all over the countryside and bumpertobumper traffic. i think people are fed up with being stacked up over airports. they want a balanced transportation system. and concentration on that portion of the transportation system which has received less attention from the senate. the house. this administration. and previous administrations. that is mass transit and rail transportation. so please do  deny the only way out. which is to make capital type investments which can get transportation out of its deficit circle. again. i have to reach back. in memory. but as i recall when amtrak was set up there was about $100 million in bonding authority. which i think everybody assumed would go for capital improvements. if i am  mistaken. hearings before commerce showed that the $170 million for operating deficits until july 1973. would have to be supplemented by that $100 million in bonding authority. i pleaded with that committee and i plead with the entire senate  to get to the business of building a decent mass transit system throughout the united states. i at times have commented on the position of the american automobile association which says all highway related taxes such as gasoline levies go to highways. i pay those taxes. i drive my car. and frankly. i want those taxes to go to transportation. to my being able to move. i think the average person throughout the country feels the same way. here is one of the opening opportunitiesand i think there are going to be many more in this session of congressto get america moving again. i wholeheartedly commend the senator from new york and the senator from new jersey. who presented the idea in committee. on their effort to give mass transit a chance. because the committee version of the bill dooms mass transportation to a repetition of what has been going on for the past 50 yearsspecifically. service. and deficits. if we are going to construct a goal  in the field of transportation that will gain the confidence of the american public and be selfsustaining. we have to make an investment.  in operating subsidies. but in capital grants. this is what the amendment of the senator from new york does. it keeps this money where it belongsspecifically in making the types of improvements that will give to all the towns and cities of this country decent transportation.
. that is the whole argument of the amendment of the senator from new york. admittedly. financial assistance for operating costs is  the answer to our transportation problems today. just as the secretary stated in his letter. however. unless the committee bill and the amendment of the senator from new york passes. then. we have way to get rid of operating deficits. what is required is new ideas along with new money. at best. what the amendment of the senator from new york would do is buy time. the senator from colorado indicated his authorship and support of the portion of the bill that allocates a 9010 funding for mass transit projects. i commend him on that. i commend the committee for including it in the bill. but there is the explanation for our national mass transit deficiency. for years a gover or a local official could get 9010 funding for a highway project. while he could get only onethirdtwothirds funding for mass transit projects. obviously. everyone used the program which involved as little state and local money as possible. everyone opted for highways. whether or  the solution called for was a mass transit solution. the net result has been that we have all the highways in the world but mass transit facilities. that is the reason we come before congress. as we have congresses before and shall in congresses after. with a desperate plea to make the necessary financial commitment. to create a transportation system. a balanced transportation system. a system that works.
as to what our transportation system should consist of. i point out that due to the actions of the committee. an additional $100 million in direct funding and an additional $150 million in loan guarantees has been incorporated in the amtrak bill. for the first time the american people are being told what it really costs to run a railroad. but altogether. the issue is longer just those who want to travel intercity. because the cost of the rails can be based on human life55.000 people killed on the highways every yearit can be based on pollution and our efforts to do away with it. it can be argued on the basis of moving people around. it can be argued on the basis of what the needs of our cities are. it is a broad issue. it longer belongs alone to the traveler from new york to chicago. other form of transportation can move so many people over such a small piece of real estate. and as powerful as we have become throughout the world. and as many achievements as we have in the areas of science and space. the fact remains that the united states of america has without question the worst rail system of any major nation in the world. so i am delighted and i am proud that the u.s. senate. and specifically the committee on commerce. has chosen to be the pioneer. has chosen to set forth what our commitment is going to be. which has . frankly. been done by the administration or added by the house of representatives. this is new. it is exciting. and if this bill passes. we will have.  a thousand transportation happenings in the united states of america. but indeed a transportation system.
. i would  want to be responsible for putting 15.000 troops on one vessel. certainly our experience in the latest war we have waged is that we did  use ships for the transporting of troops. at a time when we are seeking funds for many valid transportation needs and for education purposes. it is rather extraordinary that we should go ahead and spend $13 million for the purchase of a ship. it is rather extraordinary that we would set aside $13 million to one corporation. we are  in the business of buying ships we may sell later on or that we may use in a future conflict when all the facts and experience indicate the use of ships as a transport vehicle is on the way out.
 of amtrak. candidly. i believe that once appointed to amtrak your devotions should have been to the national policy embodied in the creation of that organization rather than to any individual or agency within or without the government hopscotcliing is a tiring activity leaving the participant exhausted and ineffective. that is  what our exhausted ineffective national rail situation needs. sincerely.
. i thank the senator from new jersey. i would like again to add my voice in complimenting the committee on the bill  before us. and on the cooperation which i have received from the distinguished senator from west virginia and the distinguished senator from new jersey on a problem that i have been pursuing through these halls. specifically the adequate funding of amtrak. the additional $55 million which was approved by the housesenate conference does  appear in this bill. but i have initiated discussions with members of the committee. specifically with the distinguished senator from west virginia and the distinguished senator from new jersey. and it is my hope that at such time as the supplemental appropriation bill appears before this body. probably sometime in late july or early august. an additional $55 million will be included and will be made available to bring about the necessary capital improvements in that rail system. we do have some additional investigation and homework to do. but i do  feel that in any way there is less of a commitment to a decent rail system within this nation by the appropriations committee because of its failure to appear in this particular bill. i do hope. as i have said earlier. that sometime in july or august those funds will be forthcoming. i thank the senator from new jersey.
. this amendment is very simple. it says that any highway construction project funded with federal money must be part of an overall transportation plan rather than simply a highway plan. it also says that the gover has ultimate responsibility for such planning and  just state highway officials. this amendment is important because it recognizes that highways. while a vitally important part of any balanced transportation system. should  be planned in isolation from mass. intercity rail or air transportation facilities. all should tie in with each other. all should recognize the varying environmental. social. and ecoic impact of alternate modes of transportation in all areasrural as well as urban. i recall one day in february 1969. the incredible picture of kennedy international airport completely cut off from the outside world by a sstorm. runways and highways were covered with s and ice and with rail link to the city. thousands of passengers were literally stranded in the midst of the worlds most modern transportation hub. with comprehensive planning. this never would have been permitted. there are airports which serve every major city in the country yet in only one casecleveland. ohiois there a rail link between the terminal and the central city. on the other side of the coin. there are rail lines ending in major downtown terminals in most of our cities but the suburban station linking rails to newer highways is far too rare. both of these situations can and must be eliminated. we have got to wipe away the planning mentality which allows the creation of uncoordinated transportation happenings at the expense of an overall system. amendment  1503 would  authorize the spending of more money. section 104(g) of the basic act as amended by s. 3939 already allocates onehalf of 1 percent of the highway trust fund for planning. this amendment would simply mandate the pass through of onehalf of these funds to urban areas while the remaining funds would remain with state transportation planning agencies. neither would this amendment impair metropolitanareawide planning or the creation of local planning agencies which s. 3939 would require. local officials would definitely be consulted by state planners and local plans. created locally would be carefully plugged into broader state programs. the kind of coordination this amendment requires is absolutely essential. and i would hope that other senators would support it.
. it took the man on the street a long time to associate the soot in his eye with the word "pollution." it never occurred to him to relate the murkiness of his rivers and streams to the word "environment." until recently he had never tied the word "ecology" to such abominations as smog. litter. heat inversions. oil spills. wildlife slaughter. and shattering ses. but how times have changed. because today the environment is everything. for too long i had hoped to see a similar awakening with respect to the nations transportation problems. sad to say it has  happened. why. because it has been creeping rather than instantaneous catastrophe. transportation is a city that has lost a park to an expressway. transportation is the elderly dying of respiratory disease because the air is gunked up. transportation is our children who become statistics55.000 fatalities on our highways each year. transportation is the couple who owned the corner newsstore before it was torn down for aher expressway. transportation is the poor without cars to get to work. so. when we realize what transportation is. we understand that the fight for an intelligent. balanced transportation policy is a fight for all about life. admittedly transportation is an issue which ranks low in the polls. i had occasion to see such a poll in my state of connecticut. which certainly is in the midst of this crisis. and. as i recall. only 3 percent of the states people thought this was an important issue. yet i am sure that if they had been asked any one of the individual questions. of which i have just given examples. they would have ranked about at the top of the list. so perhaps those of us fighting the battle have been remiss in  coining a real grabber of a descriptive phrase. but the time has come. . for action on the floor of the senate. so public support is  so important as it is for each one of the senators in this body to live up to the trust imposed on him. rather than the highway trust fund. senator kennedy and myself. and in aher amendment. senators cooper and muskie. have offered amendments that would permit highway trust fund moneys to be used for mass transit systems in addition to highways. neither of these amendments are antihighway. the pending amendment would  force the cities or the states to build mass transit systems. rather. for the first time. transportation decisions would be made by humans living in 1972. rather than a highway trust fund created in as i stated before. the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. in the hearings on this bill. someone turned on the automatic pilot in 1956. the problem is that one has turned it off in 1972. even though times have changed. we are still guided by this legal artificiality rather than the realities around us and the decisions made by flesh and blood. both amendments state that in diversity rather than in sameness lies the answer to mobility in the united states. why this concern from senators representing such diverse states as maine. massachusetts. connecticut. and kentucky. item: 55.000 men. women. and children will be killed on our highways this year. item: 2 million more will be disabled. $14.3 billion will be lost as a direct result of traffic accidents. item: 60.000 people are displaced from their homes and businesses each year because of highway construction. item: 44.3 percent of all air pollution comes from motor vehicles and causes $8 billion in damage annually. item: 70 percent of the national transportation budget for 1973 will be spent on highways while 5 percent will be spent for mass transit. what is clear is that highways alone. or in overwhelming proportions. are a mobility. environmental. and safety disaster. in fact. we have become a nation of automotive lemmings. the time for the public to speak is in an election year when congress has rabbit ears. the choice. as i see it. is between moving america on for 2 more yearssince this is a biennial reviewor getting killed by fumes. or cars. or just waiting. i am reminded of the parable of how  to "cook a frog." if we were to boil a pot of water and drop the frog in. his reflexes would cause him to jump out of the pot. thus saving him from being cooked. on the other hand. put him in a pot of cold water. heat it slowly. and he would eventually be cooked. in terms of transportation in this nation. we are the frogand we had better jump.
. i have a great deal of admiration and respect for the senator from indiana and k of his interest in mass transit. but i think it is important to comment. in reference to the statement by the senator from massachusetts. that this business that those of us who buy our gasoline and pay our taxes are expecting a commitment through highways is a fiction. we want to be able to move. that is what i pay my taxes for when i buy gasoline or pay any of the other money that goes into the highway trust fund. i want to be able to move. at times when i am in my automobile. i want to be able to move. and i can do it. at times when i am in an airplane i can move. and i want to be able to move. rail. almost totally existent. so i think we might as well put that fiction to bed. in effect. what is being stated here today is that the policy engineered by this congress in 1956 is binding on all americans in the year 1972. that is  the way we run the united states of america. we still like to be able to choose. and it is only when choice is taken away and logic does  have to prevail that we get into trouble. that is what in effect the highway trust fund people are arguing formore logic. we do  have to have logic to justify our spending. we point to this entity. the vehicle we created in 1956. and say that is logic egh. that is bunk. that is fiction. a recent article in the hartford courant. for september 10. 1972. discusses the mass transit situation in the hartford area. it reads in part: the only significant public reaction to all this impending highway construction has been vehement opposition. yet there is every indication that the highways will be built. the publics opposition causing only delay and inconvenience in doing the inevitable. weicker is hardly alone in his assessment of 1291. but the issue is and seemingly never has beenwhether to build the highway. the public has never been given the choice of spending billions to create efficient mass transit rather than building highways. actually. in most instances. the public can even choose whether to build a highway. almost inevitably. the public clamor has  been for. but vehemently against. more highways in connecticut. yet the 1972 connecticut master transportation plan prepared by the state department of transportation projects that 92 per cent of the $6.4 billion to be spent on transportation in connecticut by 1990 will go into highways. less than 21/ per cent of the total transportation expenditure is allocated to bus equipment in the plan and less than 11/ per cent is allocated to actual mass transit services. the people of connecticut do  want some $5 billion worth of new highway construction in the state by 1990. in many cases they dont even want the new highways  being built. this is just a case history that can be applied nationally. we are  arguing for the elimination of highways. i understand there are great areas in this country that need them as their primary mode of transportation. but i do  think that the people of connecticut have to have a montana solution for a connecticut problem. any more than the people of montana have to have a connecticut solution rammed down their throats. the senator from indiana mentions that 10 percent is going to safety and. somehow. this gives dignity to the legislation. it does  give dignity. it is skirting the issue entirely. it is aher 10percent subsidy by the people of the united states to the individual mode of transportationto the automobilebecause. let me assure the senate that if we had a decent mass transportation system. with almost deaths for the number of people traveling over that system. we would  need to spend 10 percent of our money on a safety program.
i thank the senator from indiana. the fact is that we are apparently paying this substantial amount of money to save us from ourselves. i think the point is quite clear. there is choice right  available to the american public. they are locked in to policies of 1956. even though the circumstances have altered radically. how well i remember standing on the floor of the senate several months ago. when the distinguished senator from louisiana made the comment. in urging additional highway building. that people who work here in the capital were having a great deal of difficulty coming into washington from suburban maryland and virginia on the interstate highways. because they were bumper to bumper in traffic jams. that is the whole situation which is before us. those highways were  meant for commuting into washington. d.c. they were meant to be interstate highways. but they are being used as commuting arteries. because there is mass transportation system. so. in fact. the failure to provide for mass transit has itself hurt the effectiveness of the interstate system. the problem is balanced transportation. it is in fact true that over the years we have been able to move long distances in faster times. and yet when we reach our destinations-
i thank the senator from kentucky. . the issue is raised as to the trust fund. "tapping the trust fund." there is only one trust that i recognize. each one of us on the floor should recognize that that is the legislative trust that was imposed on each of us in our election to this body. otherwise why  create a range of trust fundsa trust fund for the military. a trust fund for pollution. a trust fund for agriculture. and on down the lineso that we never have to use either our imagination or creativity  be held responsible for the consequences of our inaction. to my way of thinking. there is question as to what trust is important today. it is that legislative trust which is thrust upon each one of us. yet the congress of the united states. both the house and senate. has managed to avoid fulfilling that trust so far as transportation is concerned by differing its power of creativity to the supposed proprieties of an artificiality kn as the highway trust fund. so i am asking that this senate of live and warm bodiesrather than create a legal artificiality. create the transportation policies of our country. that means tackling the mobility. environmental. and safety crises of the 1970s rather than rehashing the highway shortages of 1956. mobility is achieved differently in different places. in 1972. for example. a new interstate highway from the center of hartford. conn.. to its suburbs of west hartford. avon. farmington. and bloomfield makes as much senseand i say this in all due deference to the senator from montanaas a subway from billings to kalispell. mont. yet that is what cities all over the united states are forced to do by virtue of the federal government failing to review its legislative trust in transportation for almost 20 years.  there is a breakdown or a tapping or an erosion of a trust worthy of dismay.
. a short time after the vote on the kennedyweicker amendment. one of the members of my staff was going back to the senate office building. the highway people traveling in the subway were gleeful over the fact that they had won so overwhelmingly. but these are the last of the highway lobbyists. longer does the highway trust fund have all of its members. only recently some of them said. "let us end the highway trust fund." henry ford said. "let us use the money from the highway trust fund for mass transit." the mobil oil co.. in a series of advertisements in the new york times. says: "open up the fund. we need balance. coordination. sanity." slowly but surely everyone in the country is moving ahead but the u.s. senate. we have been clinging to the highway trust fund. today the senate can change the emphasis toward mass transportation. personally. i do  k why there is such stubbornness here in the matter of paying these moneys. i never grieve when good fortune is broadened in this country. only when it remains static or diminishes. as highways were needed in 1956. so they are needed today and probably will continue to be in the future. although probably  in the same form. as secondary roads take priority over the interstate system. however. they will be needed.
. what is clear . however. is that highways alone or in overwhelming proportions are a mobility. environmental and safety disaster. we are well aware on the basis of our own experiences.  from some advertisement. that though long distance travel has improved in this nation. intermediate and short distance travel has become a nightmare of waiting and that todays traffic jams are longer restricted to 1 and.2 days. but are expanded to 3 and 4 days. the united states does  answer the questions. regardlesss of the legalities raised by the members of this house. how do we answer the heat inversions caused by auto pollution. that occur in increasing numbers. how do we answer the fact that businesses are being displaced every day in increasing numbers. how do we answer the fact that the landscape is being paved over with concrete. all in the name of the god of mobility. but still mobility is achieved. i think it is important that this body maintain our fiscal integrity and maintain the integrity of this program. however. much more important. i think. is that we fulfill our objectives and our objectives and loyalty are  to this highway trust fund. our loyalties are to the people of this country and their mobility and to the fact that they can live. to the fact that they can breathe. and to the fact that they can move. that is what i am here for.  to defend a fiction.
. we must come to the most important single transportation issue of the past 2 yearsthe 1972 highway bill. in a policy statement on the environment delivered on saturday. october 7. senator mcgovern called for the reallocation of revenues in the highway trust fund tl at would appropriate more money for mass transit and less for highway construction. thatis nice. but on september 19. the senateshattering 16 years of precedentdid exactly what senator mcgovern wanted and he was  here to help. i might add. that those of us who were urging support of this legislation. the kennedyweicker and coopermuskie amendments. thought that the vote might be so close that we even attempted to get the candidate back to washington for the votes. obviously. we did  succeed. senator mcgovern did attempt to adopt our whole principle in a press release 2 weeks later. but votes.  press releases. are what will move america.
. the senior senator from massachusetts and i have offered a bill that is  antihighway in its purpose. rather. for the first time. transportation decisions could be made by humans living in 1973.  a highway trust fund created in 1956. this bill states that in diversity rather than sameness lies the answer to mobility in the united states. in 1956. without kledge of costs. monetary or human. the congress of the united states created the highway trust fund. and that congressional action has remained basically unchanged for 16 years and eight elections. an automatic pilot was turned op. and america has overflown its transportation destination many times over. in creating the highway trust fund. congress let a concept rather than a congress shape transportation policies. concepts are wordscongress is human. trust fund sounds so proper. it sounds much better than politics. but the fact is that. with the creation of the trust fund. the congress of the united states turned over its responsibilities in the area of transportation to private interests. the fact is that the congress of the united states made a commitment of taxpayers moneys.  just for one session of the congress but for what has  been 16 sessions of the congresswithout consultation with or accountability by those taxpayers. what we are  saying to the congress is that the highway trust fund is more sacrosanct than any other federal project. regardless of what it is called. if the money or the concept is  doing the job. then change hanging onis the order of the day. that same national mania for highways that set back the railroads in 1966 could turn to mass transit in 1972 and leave highways a forgotten transportation project. but we need a balanced transportation system.  a multitude of transportation happenings. finally. the highway lobby in washington has fought a vigorous battle to protect "its" fund. arrogantly they clahn to speak for all americans. and unfortunately most americans are too lazy to face them down. since it has been creeping rather than instantaneous disaster. all of us are willing to accept the traffic jams. the death. the pollution. the environmental desecration. grumbling as we sit in our car. we find laziness in full command when the ignition is turned off and the car is in the garage. but the biggest reason of all for hange in our transportation policies has been the american people themselves. only recently in the state of connecticut. transportation was listed in a poll as being an important issue to only 3 percent of connecticuts voters. ninety percent felt pollution was an issue. 95 percent felt that the environment was an issue. both are component parts of the transportation crisis. but only 3 percent designated the crisis itself as important. i think slowly all of connecticut. as well as the rest of this nation. is beginning to understand that transportation is  only of concern to the commuter. it is the concern of the suburban dweller. the factory worker. and the storeowner. just as surely. transportation is longer simply a connecticut. new york. or massachusetts issue. it is an issue for all the new population centers. be they in georgia. or california. or texas. or florida. this was the background then when the highway trust fund came up for its automatic biennial approval last year. for the first time in its 16year career. the highway lobby was run over by the senate of the united states. senator kennedy and myself on the one hand. senators cooper and muskie on the other. tried to amend the highway bill to provide for the use of highway funds for mass transitmass transit rail. mass transit bus. the kennedyweicker amendment was a slightly broader. more adequately financed proposal and should be the law of the future. unfortunately. what was a successful fight in the senate came to grief in the house. what this means is that instead of waiting until 1974. transportation policy will be shaped by congress in 1973. what is clear is that highways alone. or in overwhelming proportions. are a mobility. environmental. and safety disaster. we have become a nation of automotive lemmings. i am reminded of the parable of how  to "cook a frog." if you were to boil a pot of water and drop the frog in. his reflexes would cause him to jump out of the pot. thus saving him from being cooked. on the other hand. put him in a pot of cold water. heat it slowly and he would eventually be cooked. in terms of transportation. we are the frog and we had better jump orby mr. stevenson:
. on february 6. the nbc news program first tuesday presented a report by paul duke on americas transportation crisis. the program. produced by peter jeffries. took a hard look at the highway lobby and its powerful frier ds in washington. it showed how they are determined to continue using money from the highway trust fund to build more and more highways despite the pleas of environmentalists. civic groups. leaders. and enlightened members of congress to use part of the money for desperately needed mass transportation. the program did a great deal to inform the public on the key issues in the current battle in congress to tap the trust fund. it also showed very graphically the cost in human misery of this nations highway building program. messrs. duke and jeffries are to be congratulated for their dramatization of the issues. and nbc for having the courage to present what was a timely. but controversial. report. it was journalism at its best.
. upon recommendation from a number of sectors. including the congressional leadership. the national govers conference. the railroad companies. amtrak. the congress of railway unions. the railway labor executives association. and the national industrial traffic league. the corporation would acquire all track and roadbed owned by bankrupt railroads in the theast. in exchange for debentures equal to the net liquidation value of the property conveyed. a $1 billion federal loan guarantee would be authorized for financing of these acquisitions. in addition. the corporation would be allotted $300 million in the first 2 years for rehabilitation of existing tracks. and $100 million per year for maintenance. for capital improvements. and for overhead expenses of the corporation. it is important to e that the operation of rail service would remain witl4 the railroads. or in the case of passenger service. with amtrak. however. user charges would be levied by the corporation at a suggested rate of 60 cents per thousand gross ton mile of locomotive and train operations. this preliminary figure is based on standard maintenance and rehabilitation costs presently incurred by healthier railroads. finally. this measure would designate certain essential rail lines to be part of an interstate railroad system in the united states which must be upgraded to insure safe and dependable travel of freight trains at 60 milesperhour and passenger trains at 80 milesperhour. a maximum of $200 million in federal loan guarantees will be given to these railroads for improvement of their roadbed to meet federal standards. the effort to develop a modern and efficient rail service in the theast is only part of a larger national need for a better transportation system. we must finally admit that american railroads are being killed by highways. waterways. and airports built and maintained by the government. rails are the most efficient. cleanest. and least landhungry of all forms of surface transportation. but their only chance for survival is the takeover. rebuilding. and maintenance of roadbeds by government. today the government can control rail rates. it can investigate accidents after they occur. but to create a nationwide rail system for the future. we must permit railroad operating companies to run over federally owned rightsofway and require. in return. the kind of high quality service which will mean a rebirth of rail transportation in america. the senate commerce committee will begin hearings on this issue tomorrow. our proposal will provide the necessary vehicle for productive and meaningful discussion. i am confident that the surface transportation subcommittee. after hearing from all interested parties. will report out appropriate legislation. the goal is simply to provide the proper ecoic climate for healthy and viable rail service in the future.
. the senior senator from massachusetts and i have offered an amendment that is  antihighway in its purpose. but is only antirigidity. for the first time transportation decisions could be made by humans living in 1973.  a highway trust fund created in 1956. this proposal states that in diversity rather than sameness lies the answer to mobility in the united states. senator kennedy and i have proposed an amendment to the highway bill which would provide for flexibility. the kennedyweicker amendment is reasonable. adequately financed. and has the greatest public support--and should be the law.
. i have just a few remarks in regard to the amendment of the senator from new jersey. i commend him for his amendment. i intend to support it and vote against the motion to table. but i do think it far better at this point of the entire debate to offensively anticipate what is going to take place here rather than be on the defensive. i think this was touched upon somewhat in the very short dialog between the distinguished senator from vermont and the distinguished senator from west virginia. it is true that the substance of the amendment of the senator from new jersey was passed by this body last year. we are doing hing different here than what we have done in the past. i think it is also important to point out that we in this body did adopt the coopermuskie amendment last year. all this was done last yearboth the coopermuskie amendment was passed and what is  the amendment of the distinguished senator from new jersey was passed. i do  want it said. as we get into debate and we move on from the distinguished senator from new jerseys amendment to the distinguished senator from massachusetts and the distinguished senator from tennessees amendment. that we have done our bit for mass transit by passage of the amendment of the distinguished senator from new jersey. that is  the case. there are two situations involved here:  1. the direct funding of mass transit in this nation. and. on the other hand. the situation as it relates to the highway trust fund whereby those moneys will be available for all forms of transportationrail. highway. bus. et cetera. so i want to make the situation quite clear that. in supporting the very fine amendment offered by the distinguished senator from new jersey. it will also be my intention to attack aher problem. or aher aspect of the problem. which would specifically relate to uses of highway trust fund moneys. because we are so far behind in the task of providing mass transit that the effort that will be required will be on both grounds. the use of money from both the highway trust fund and those that are directly related to mass urban transportation. we will  have done our job in behalf of mass transit merely by passage of this particular amendment.
. the senior senator from massachusetts and i have offered an amendment that is  antihighway. but is only antirigidity. for the first time transportation decisions could be made by humans living in 1973.  a highway trust fund created in 1956. this proposal states that in diversity rather than sameness lies the answer to mobility in the united states. the kennedyweicker amendment is reasonable. adequately financedand should be the law. highways alone are a mobility. environmental. and safety disasterand we have  become a nation of automotive lemmings. there is longer any reason for a senator to advocate a particular form of transportationtransportation is  a question of states rights. mobility is a national concept. it is like the wreck on the highway just ahead which backs up traffic for milesso when new york chokes on its automobiles it is  long before new jersey and connecticut will grind to a halt. and then massachusetts. and then delaware. and then maryland. and thenlet us clear this highway trust fund off the highway and get america moving again.
. i can let the point raised by the senator go unanswered. the highway trust lobby is a very well defined group. on our side. it is the peoples lobby. it is  anyone who wants to sell railroad cars or buses. it is a peoples lobby and they have had it. we can look at those who come to visit us with respect to mass transit. it is those people who have to have viable means of transportation because of ecoic reasons or for reasons of disability. it is those people who want to do away with pollution. it is those people who make up a peoples lobby that we are speaking for. however. to pick up on the comments of the senator from alaska and the senator from texas that the objective was to build highways. i would point out that this is  the objective. the objective is to have transportation systems to move people. in connecticut. for example. we have reached the objective many times over insofar as the interstate highways are concerned. we do  need any more. we need mass transit systems. and we need them desperately. the goal was to build more highways. however. the distinguished senator from massachusetts and i have a goal of creating transportation systems to move people. transportation systems that have within them many modes of transportation. as to the point raised that this is a city issue. i reply that the problem is expanding. it is longer just an issue for the cities. for example. in my state of connecticut. the only people initially interested in mass transit were those in the southwestern part of connecticut.  the whole state of connecticut is involved in mass transit. we have had too many interstate highways cutting across the middle and upper parts of connecticut in places where one dreamed people would get involved in mass transportation.
then i would comment that it is  a question of highway versus mass transit. the issue framed by the amendment of the senator from maine and the amendment of the senator from tennessee is highway versus a balance in our transportation policies. that is the issue. there is issue on this side of the argument with respect to mass transit. the issue is whether the federal government will back up only the building of a highway and say that that is the way we can solve the question and that is the only answer that they can support. i thoroughly support the efforts of the distinguished senator from maine and the distinguished senator from tennessee. i commend them for their amendment. i support it wholeheartedly. i think they will win and. in doing that. i think they will set a new direction for transportation policies of this country. then the only persons that i feel sorry for are those in the house of representatives who will have to be subjected to the lastditch effort of those who feel that the answcr to the problem is more highways. and. to that extent. they will be pressured by the lobbys.
. this amendment is very simple. it says that any highway construction project funded with federal money must be part of an overall transportation plan rather than simply a highway plan. it also says that the gover has ultimate responsibility for such planning and  just state highway officials. this amendment is important because it recognizes that highways. while a vitally important part of any balanced transportation system should  be planned in isolation from mass. intercity rail or air transportation facilities. all should tie in with each other. all should recognize the varying environmental. social. and ecoic impact of alternate modes of transportation in all areasrural as well as urban. the major airports in this nation generally have failed to have the necessary rail link between terminals and the central cities. on the other side of the coin. too little thought has been given to linking suburban rail stations with the construction of new highways. both of these situations can and must be eliminated. we have got to wipe away the planning mentality which allows the creation of uncoordinated transportation happenings at the expense of an overall system. this amendment would  authorize the spending of more money. section 104(f) of the basic act as amended by s. 502 already allocates onehalf of 1 percent of the highway trust fund for planning. this amendment would  impair metropolitanareawide planning or the creation of local planning agencies. local officials would definitely be consulted by state planners and local plans. created locally would be carefully plugged into broader state programs. the kind of coordination this amendment requires is absolutely essential. and i would hope that other senators would support it.
. i commend the recent agreement of the national council on animal transportation to develop improved and simplified guidelines for pet owners and cargo handlers. the 10yearold council. comprised of representatives of the airline carriers. the pet industry. and various humane societies. and other interested parties. took this action at its annual meeting here in washington. hosted by the air transport association. at that meeting. glenn e. stephan. atas representative and chairman of the councils subcommittee on humane treatment of animals in transportation. urged thatin the case of the air shipment of household pets and other types of animals commonly shipped by air. the development of the cleareft possible guidelines for the professional in the animal shipping field would render a humane service. stephan has proposed that a simplified chart could be made available to air freight handling employees and pet owners. this would list such vital guidelines as the proper container size and air space required for various types of animals shipped by air transport. though i am encouraged by the voluntary and cooperative action on the part of the national council on animal transportation. i would urge that congress consider pertinent legislation on this matter. specifically s. 399. reintroduced on january 16. 1973. by myself and senators griffin and buckley. this measure has been introduced in the house by congressman whitehurst of virginia and is pending before the house agriculture committee and in the senate before the committee on commerce. in extending coverage of the animal welfare act to common carriers. terminal facilities. and all pet shops. this bill closes major loopholes in existing law and affords an opportunity for shippers. carriers. humane societies. and governmental agencies to cooperate in the formulation of new federal standards for the protection of animals in air transit. i urge the congress to afford the matter of humane treatment of animals in transport early and thorough hearings to consider adding scope and substance to federal humane standards and enforcement provisions in regard to animal air transport.
. i wish to commend both the senator from maryland and the senator from indiana for being good egh to work with me on this amendment. basically. they have put a great deal of work. time. and effort into the rail situation. more particularly the crisis which exists in the theast. but i think it also behooves us. while we are at the business of constructing a system. to take a look at rail passenger service throughout the united states and also the three types of it. namely. intercity. commuter. and mass transit. related to it. it is my intention in offering this amendment that the federal government for the first time afford serious consideration to the prospects and implications of nationalizing our rail passenger service. the concept of which has been rejected out of hand by many transportation authorities and citizens alike over the years. i believe the only way to initiate rational discussion of the issue is to get some facts on the table. this amendment constitutes a first step toward a rational approach to the subject of nationalization of rail passenger operations.
 as to mass transit system is inadequate because we will  get them for 5 or 10 yearsagain. one of the principal solutions which has long been denied because we did  anticipate this crisis. i have heard the democratic responses regarding the matter of transportation. let us make it clear that on both sides of the coin there has been a handful fighting for mass transit. but there has been very little interest on the part of the administration and the democratic majority in congress putting an end to the highway trust fund or bringing about additional funds for mass transit systems. so the fault lies with government as a whole at the federal level. solar energy will  come to pass immediately. we have  even started in that direction to the point we should have reached by . we need time to develop these concepts. it is  a matter of hitching up our belt a ch for a week. for a month. but rather for years. yet. for some reason. we are giving the impression that this crisis will clear up when the embargo is lifted. it will . it will get worse. we have also got to k that the sacrifice required is  going to be insignificant. all that has happened  is that leadership in the federal government is setting person against person. town against town. state against state. we are being set one against the otherindividuals. towns. and states. that is a solution for a national crisis.
 of operations of the southern railway system. told a group of railroad executives: i say to you . the american railroads must increase their spending on track maintenance. this year. we (southern) have already spent $3 million more on m/w than was spent last year. the heavier cars and locomotives are demanding better track. the maintenance program we have used in the pastand it was a rather healthy onewould  do the job. in the final analysis this steppedup program will cost more than we have spent in the past. savings generated through fewer derailments and less loss and damage will pick up the tab. we are already threequarters of a million dollars better off in this respect this year than last year. the sooner your managements decide to take this step the better off you will be. trains will move faster. per diem on equipment will be less. derailments will diminish and. best of all. you will have more business to handle. i can think of a healthier situation. southern continues to follow mr. moores prescription. the companys expenditures on maintenance of way in proportion to total expenses is among the highest in the industry. the results have been outstandingboth for freight shippers and southern shareholders. southern has about the lowest ratio of freight loss and damage expense of all u.s. railroads. at the same time. its profits are at record high levels. having increased each year since 1968. unfortunately. a number of other railroads apparently reject southerns philosophy. in recent years. the louisville and nashville. the illis central gulf. the burlington thern. the kansas city southern. and the chicago and th western have  been adequately maintaining their track and roadbed. while at the same time they have paid out substantial amounts in dividends and for transportation investments. the inevitable consequences have been a decline in service quality and/or a soaring train accident rate. of even greater concern is what will happen to their operations 2. 3. and 5 years from  when the remaining maintenance "fat" they are  living off of is completely used up. sooner or later track and roadbed must be restored if a railroad is to continue to function. but the governing theory seems to be. "in the long run well all be dead."  there are indications that even such affluent companies as the chesapeake & ohio and the southern pacific are deferring maintenance. of course some railroads have simply been unable to afford adequate track maintenance. the penn central and other bankrupts being the most obvious examples. whatever the reasons. the crisis has been building for a long time and is truly national in scope. while scattered defened maintenance began accumulating in some areas almost as soon as post world war ii plant refurbishing was completed. the origins of the present situation date back to the recession of 1958. a 1971 study by the railroad industrys labor art management committee indicates that between 1958 and 1970. railroads replaced only 60 percent of the annual number of crossties that should have been replaced. and laid only 60 percent of the amount of new rail that should have been installed. beginning in 1958. there was a sharp drop in the ratio of maintenance of way spending to gross revenue. a situation that persisted through the relative railroad prosperity of the mid1960s. estimates of the total dollar amount of deferred maintenance. and hence of the dollar needs for track and roadbed rehabilitation. are somewhat sketchy. but indications are that the national total is at least $3 billion. the railroad industry estimated in 1971 that implementation of the original draft of track standards formulated under the rail safety act would cost $2.2 billion. the modified standards that were adopted were priced by the industry at $1.6 billion. last year penn central claimed that it had almost $3 billion of deferred maintenance. including yards. terminals. and rolling stock. while the department of transportation thought the figure was closer to $1.5 billion. that amount is a great plenty for just a single company. in its february 1974 report on the theast. the department estimated that rehabilitation of substantially all track and roadbed in the theast would cost over $3 billion. in the absence of a government guarantee. it is extremely difficult for any but the most profitable railroads to borrow money for fixed plant improvement because. unlike equipment borrowings. there is readily marketable collateral which can be repossessed and sold to others. property  owned by most railroads is mortgaged to the hilt. moreover. new additions to fixed plant can be mortgaged to secure new borrowing because of "hereafter acquired" clauses in existing mortgages. which require such additions to be available as increased security for the benefit of present creditors.
. i am today introducing legislation to amend the regional rail reorganiiation act of 1973 to allow adequate time for citizen participation in public hearings. the rail reorganization act of 1973 established the rail services planning officerspo--within the interstate commerce commission to. inter alia. insure that the interests of the public are adequately protected during key phases of the reorganization process. multifarious provisions in the act reflect congressional concern over the safeguarding of the public interest: first. section 205(d) (1) requires the rail services planning officerspoto conduct public hearings on the secretarys report and present. and future rail service needs in the region. second. section 205(d) (2) requires the rspo to secure the services of attorneys and other personnel to insure that the public interest is protected. third. section 207 (a) (1) requires the u.s. railway association--usrato afford interested persons an ppportunity to comment upon the preliminary system plan. i fourth. section 207 (a) (2). directs the rspo to conduct public hearings on the preliminary system plan. fifth. section 208(a) affords the public an opportunity to reject the final i "rail services in the theast and midwest." report of the secretary of transportation (february 1. 1974). system plan through their representative in congress. ably. in order to achieve maximum and effective public participation at least four things are necessary: first. an opportunity for the public to gain access to pertinent datafor example. reports and various plans. second. sufficient time for members of the public to review and analyze the data. third. sufficient time for public counselprovided for in section 205(d) (2) of the actto inform members of the public of the nature of the proceedings and aid them in the preparation of testimony. and fourth. there must be egh time for the rspo to select those hearing sites which will facilitate the greatest amount of public participation. the fourth requirement. as stated above. entails many factors. the rspo needs sufficient time to provide advance publicity of the hearings while concomitantly assembling the requisite personnel to conduct the hearingsfor example. public counsel. presiding officers. contact coordinators. court reporters. bailiff. et cetera. moreover. logistically. it takes time to select an appropriate location which is available for the requisite period of timeusually 3 to 5 days. the current statutory timetable does  facilitate the satisfaction of the aforementioned prerequisites to effective public participation in the reorganization process. information obtained during the initial stages of the reorganization process reflects the publics dissatisfaction with the current timetable as outlined herein. on february 1. 1974. the secretary issued the report required by section 204. since the rspo was required to submit its analysis and recommendations concerning that report to the usra by may 2. 1974. hearings were held during the first 2 weeks in march. an overwhelming majority of the approximately 2.700 witnesses who testified in 17 cities throughout the region complained that they: first. were unable to obtain the secretarys report and other pertinent datathat is. the act. second did  have egh time to review and analyze the report even if they did have access thereto. and third. did  have egh time to accumulate necessary data for rebutting the report. ably. because of the overwhelming public interest in the reorganization process and the inability of many to participate in the march hearings. additional hearings on present and future rail service needs are currently being conducted by the rspo throughout the region. with the promulgation of the preliminary system plan by the usra on october 29 of this yearpursuant to section 207a of the actthe public will be presented with the proposed plan for their future rail service in the region. unfortunately. the current timetable requires the rspo to hold hearings and issue its report on the plan within 60 days after issuance. withstanding the fact that such hearings would have to be held during the holidayseason. the same aforementioned deficiencies of the initial stage will once again rise. moreever. it is dubious that the goal enumerated by congress in section 206(a) of the act can be achieved unless these deficiencies are overcome by extending the current time limits. in order to achieve these goals and the other purposes of the act. the public must be given the opportunity both to assimilate the vast amount of divergent data required and present the synthesized fruits thereof in cogent constructive testimony. therefore. the amendment i am introducing today. which would extend the period for public participation. following the issuance of the usras preliminary plan. from 2 to 5 months. will give the public the meaningful e which they are intended to have under the act. finally. with the other time limit extensions section 205(d) (3) should be extended by an additional 90 days in order to insure that the public has sufficient opportunity to participate in the rulemaking which would apply. to them in seeking continued rail service over a line  included in the final system plan. i will at this time compliment congressman sarasin of connecticut for his initiative in introducing this legislation in the house. i further ask unanimous consent that the text of a letter from mrs. barbara boster. executive director of the eastern connecticut development council. in support of the legislative proposal. be printed at this point in the record. barbara boster has been extremely active in iccrail reorganization hearings in the theast concerning dof proposed abandonment of 175 miles of connecticut rail track. i ask unanimous consent also that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that copies of two letters from mr. lewis to me. dated july 10 and july 12. indicating the railroad experience of certain top professionals employed by usra. and the goals of usra. be printed at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i am pleased to join the distinguished chairman of the surface transportation subcommittee. senator hartke. in introducing the railroad revenue act of 1974. this legislation establishes a national railroad track system operated by an interstate railroad corporation. the new corporation would own. rehabilitate. maintain those tracks which private carriers convey to it. and would be financed by a freight waybill tax and a grosston mile charge on the private carriers operating over the system. private carriers which do  choose to convey their tracks to the corporation would be required to maintain their trackage to contain minimum standards assuring safe and efficient rail service. as a principal sponsor of s. 3343. the interstate railroad act of 1974. and longtime supporter of other related legislation. i am hopeful that the issues of rail safety and rail track maintenance will be afforded expeditious and thorough consideration by the congress. clearly. several legislative proposals will be reviewed in senate hearings commencing next year. it is in the interest of stimulating discussion by presenting alternative solutions that i have today sponsored with senator hartke this important legislation promoting an effective and efficient rail transportation system in the united states. s. 4012 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "railroad revenue act of 1974".
. i ask unanimous consent that during the consideration of the mass transit conference report mr. robert dotchin. mr. john harvey. and mr. geoffrey baker of my staff be permitted the privilege of tile floor.
i thank the distinguished senator from texas. let me at the outset of my comments give welldeserved praise to all the senators. republican and democrat. who have worked on this bill either in its formal sense or in their commitment to mass transportation. my comments to follow are in wise geared to those senators. or indeed this body as a whole. . the problem basically. to put it in a few concise words. is that this is business as usual during what are rather extraordinary times. the fact is that for a highly developed. affluent nation. we are last among our colleagues in the world in supplying decent bus and rail transportation.
 as public law 93236. on january .. 1974. of the bankrupt railroads. the boston & maine and the erie lackawanna have been determined by the courts to be reorganizable on an income basis under the bankruptcy act. however. the trustees of the erie lackawanna have recently determined that it  can be reorganized in this manner. and an amendment proposed by the committee would permit the erie lackawanna to be reorganized pursuant to the regional rail reorganization act. the regional rail reorganization act established an incorporated profit association to be kn as the u.s. railway association. usra. usra is charged with the responsibility of developing. and submitting to congress within 540 days after enactment of public law 93236june 26. 1975a final system plan for reorganizing the railroads in the midwest and theast region into an ecoically viable system capable of providing adequate and efficient rail service to the region. a preliminary system plan is to be submitted to congress within 420 days after enactmentfebruary 26. pending implementation of the final system plan with the establishment of the consolidated rail corporation. the act authorizes two forms of interim financial assistance to railroads being reorganized pursuant to its provisions. first. section 213 authorizes the secretary of transportation to make grants.  to exceed $85.000.000 to such railroads to assure continued provision of essential transportation services. second. section 215 authorizes the secretary. with approval of usra. to enter into agreements with railroads for the acquisition. maintenance. or improvement of railroad facilities and equipment necessary to improve property that will be in the final system plan. usra is authorized to issue obligations up to a maximum of $150.000.000 to finance these efforts. at a hearing held by the surface transportation subcommittee on january 21. the department of transportation. dot. testified that the bankrupt railroads of the midwest and theast presently are confronted with a serious financial crisis as a result the general ecoic downturmn and that. unless additional funds are made available promptly. the penn central. and possibly other railroads. will cease operations early this year. at that same hearing the trustees of the penn central ed that they face wage payments of over $14 million at the end of february and that without further cash assistance. the railroad will cease all operations. dot has recommended that the authorization in section 213 be increased by $100 millionfrom $85 million to $185 millionand that the authorization in section 215 be increased by $150 millionfrom $150 million to $300 million. in order to provide the department with a cushion and obviate the need for further legislation should the penn centrals projections prove to be optimistic. and in order to have sufficient funds availpble to extend financial assistance to the erie lackawanna. the committee has proposed the dot proposed authorization in section 213 be increased an additional $25 million to $210 million. however. financial assistance pursuant to section 213 and 215 niay be extended only when conditions which will assure that any improvements to rail properties made as a consequence of such assistance will benefit the consolidated rail corporation and  accrue to the estates of the bankrupt railroads. the u.s. railway association has recommended that the regional rail reorganization act be amended to enable the erie lackawanna to become a "railroad in reorganization" as defined in the act and thereby be reorganized pursuant to that act. a committee amendment to the bill would establish a procedure whereby the trustees of the erie lackawanna may petition the district court for an order that the reorganization of the railroad be proceeded with pursuant to the act. the principal advantage of this manner of reorganization is the added certainty of the planning process. with the erie lackawanna being reorganized pursuant to the act. the u.s. railway association may mandate in the final system plan which erie lackawanna properties are to be conveyed to the consolidated rail corporation. finally. the committee adopted an amendment which would permit exceptions to the limitation imposed on salaries of the national railroad passenger corporation. amtrak. so as to attract capable and talented management. it is . of course. the intention of the committee by this amendment to encourage a wholesale raising of amtrak salaries. rather. the committee recognizes that the realities of the marketplace may require occasional exceptions to the salary limitation. s. 281 is. however. principally emergency legislation that must be enacted promptly to maintain essential rail service during the planning process of the regional rail reorganization act and to encompass the erie lackawanna as well as the other bankrupt railroads being reorganized pursuant to that act. accordingly. i urge my colleagues in the senate to give this measure prompt favorable consideration.
may i point out to the distinguished senator from tennessee that if there is an image that this. for some reason or other. has to do with wealthy theast commuters. and so forth. these governmental relationships are contracted for and paid for by those in the theast. the benefit of what we are talking about here actually accrues to those states such as the state of tennessee. which has its marketplace in the theast.  to the theast. that is what is misleading by the argument that the senator from tennessee is presenting. if these marketplaces to tennessee are cut off. there will be uproar in tennessee. we are  talking about a commuterpassenger operation. we are talking about one of the principal marketplaces in this country having access visavis those areas represented by states such as tennessee. the senator from indiana and i have lived with this problem. so far as i am concerned. this is a wretched case of mismanagement. private enterprise has fallen flat on its e. we do  want any part of it. but we can throw up our hands. in which case it is  a fact that somebody else is going to come along from private enterprise and have it run along smoothly. it will be out of business. i. together with the senator. have begged and pleaded that we get together and have one entity under which we run essential rail service in this country. rail services which private enterprise does  want. at the end of the lineand this is where the difference comes with respect to a year ago or 2 years agowe have conrail. we have usra. we have amtrak. these were  present on the scene. we are in that transition period. i do  want to give them a nickel. but they are under a court order . and i do  see any other alternative. they will  be enriched by what we are doing .
i agree completely with the senator from tennessee. let the record show that this is  on the initiative of either the senator from indiana or myself. i do  want to introduce this legislation. he does  want to introduce it. but the basic answer lies. whether we all want to admit it or . in the fact that. for what25 years .-95 or 96 percent of our federal transportation moneys went into the highways. what do we expect. there it is. there has been absolutely investment in a rail system in this country. yes. i think one of the great issues for our generation of senators. and i mean that. is going to be to build a viable transportation system which has all forms. highway and rail. we are stuck with an absolute zero when it comes to rail. thanks to a commitment made 25 years ago. it is going to be our job to rebuild it and it is just going to be plain nasty to do. i do  see any end of it as we stand on this floor . hopefully. as we conclude our careers x number of years from . we will have left the nation a balanced transportation system and one. i might add. that. when we get into an energy crisis. will have more facets to it than just an automobile.
. i would also comment in this regard that in the past i think the impression was held that the penn central railroad is principally a vehicle used to go to and from work by some wealthy commuters in westchester county and fairfield county. connecticut. the fact is that a long time back the metropolitan transportation authority in new york and the connecticut transportation authority in connecticut began contracting for those type of services. so this has hing to do with what we are coming to the senate with here today. what we are talking about principally are those operations that can be put in a commuter class. what we argue for . and i would say  is probably the toughest time. is this: we have behind us the wreckage of a rail system. a wreckage created by a combination of bad management on the part of private enterprise. a wreckage created by overdependence on the highway trust fund and the utilization of 95 percent of our federal transportation dollars in highways rather than in railsa wreckage. members of this body k. the distinguished senators from alabama. from florida. iowa. myself. regardless of our views on this particular legislation. that upon us sits the obligation to create a balanced and a decent transportation system in this country. we are in that transition period when we do  have the new tools fully in hand and we still have to deal with the old tools. i will stand beside any senator who sits there and shudders as he sees taxpayer money being utilized to sweep the stage clean. that. in effect. has to be done before anything new can be created. that is what makes this request and the request preceding it. and probably some additional ones coming ahead. so difficult. but i k the commitment of the senator from indiana. i k the commitment of this senator and the commerce committee in making sure that we corr ct the wrongs or the omissions. this initiative started right here in this body. i recall well in the last 4 years. with help from the white house. with help from the house of representatives. it was the senate of the united states. both in the commerce committee and also the public works committee. with the distinguished senator from west virginia. and many others who involved themselves. which brought into focus the very desperate shape of transportation in the united states. this is the worlds greatest ecoic free power and we have the worst rail system in the entire world. it was the senate of the united states.  the executive branch or our good friends across the way. which insisted that we change these timehoed policies and that we bring balance into our transportation system. so this is the commitment  only of this particular senator. but of most of the men in this chamber. to put things in perspective. i just want to throw this out: in 1973 all levels of government in the united states spent a total of $28.2 billion in public funds on transportation28.2 billion. 86 percent was spent on highways. 10 percent was spent on air transportation. 3.7 percent was spent on waterways. less than onequarter of 1 percent was spent on rail transportation. i propose that we have exactly what we paid for in this country when it comes to railshing. indeed. it is embarrassing to stand here after so many years and have to make these types of requests. but. as i have indicated. they are made  to continue the past. but to sweep the past off the stage and to launch a new era in transportation. if there is time. because i am suffering somewhat from a cold. and since i anticipate questions from the senator from alabama. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
i would have to respond in this way: first off. i think some of it they would like to take over. they would like to take over the best parts of these railroads. as indeed the management of these railroads. prior to their going into bankruptcy. of course. took the best off for themselves and their stockholders. leaving the worst behind. so really what they would have to choose from are the leavings. after the other ripoff artists had already done their job on the railroads. leaving them in that sorry state to begin with. the difficulty here is that you and i look upon this from a legislative point of view. but we have to remember that there are trustees in reorganization here who have to meet certain legal obligations. and we can just snap our fingers and say "the debt is gone." it is  gone. it is there. and really what they are having to deal with is the debt and whatever creditors happen to be out there. in sharing what is left of these railroads. so. yes. i think there are certain funds that will be gathered by the trustees from selling off the more fortunate portions of the penn central. but then what recxxi1 12part 2 mains will be even less desirable. probably. that is one of the difficulties. that is why we informed these corporations to. in effect. take over that which one else wants. and yet which is absolutely essential in the way of services. i would like to point out also that actually even the healthiest railroads in this country are barely making it. the overall return on investment in the railroads in this country is about 3 to 4 percent. e of the railroads can afford the investment needed. even the southern and the southern pacific can afford to commit themselves to needed improvements like electrification of mainline routes. electrification is coming in all over the world except in the united states. leading to less fuel consumption. less costly operations. cleaner air. and greater efficiency. but e of the railroads are in a position to make such improvements. the southern. the southern pacific. the l. & n.-all of those railroads we can speak of as healthy. but insofar as a private enterprise is concerned. we are comparing them to other roads that have gone under. rather than to other private enterprises in this country. by that standard they are probably in very bad shape also. and i worry about the time when even these will go under also. one other point i could  help but think of when the distinguished senator from alabama was speaking was that insofar as the consolidation of the railroads is concerned. i remember when the answer to all the problems was going to be the merger of the mammoth pennsylvania railroad with the mammoth new york central railroad. and this was to be the best of all worlds. well. that turned out  to be the case. but just to have compounded the problem. so i am concerned. i just do  think private enterprise has the capacity to pick up the entire ball of wax here. i do say yes. there will be those little bits and pieces which could improve their own operations. and they should go to private operations if that would provide less of a burden on the taxpayer. i am  going to indicate to anybody that the u.s. government is  going to be in the rail business. it is. just like it is in the highway business.
well. i think. sure. the icc. that would be something common to all of the railroads. the inattention of congress. that would be common to all the railroads. the negative effect of the highway trust fund. that would be common to all the railroads. but. then. i suggest there are specific things that clearly differentiate the railroads. management would be one. i would doubt the folk & western and the c. & 0.. traditionally wellmanaged railroads. i doubt they would go ahead and sustain those kinds of losses and then order those kinds of dividends paid their stockholders. so. there would be a clear difference between the railroads. also. the shift of business that i mentioned from the original committee report. that very definitely shifted more into the territory served by the c. & 0. and by the folk & western. so that there are some of these matters. yes. common to all. but i think very significant ones that accelerated the plight of penn central. and as i have warned my good friend and distinguished colleague from alabama. i issue a little word of warning here. if things continue the way they are going. 10 years from  we can be standing here making the same pitch on behalf of these railroads. the c. & 0.. the southern. and so forth.
i respect the opinion of the distinguished senator from oregon as to the experience in oregon. on the other hand. we have also had testimoney before the commerce committee by certain officials from the state of california that. indeed. the oddeven system. once all was smoothly in operation. was a conservation measure. be that as it may. the senator has asked for a specific and i will give him a specific. as i indicated. i have my own plan relative to how this rationing should take place. i estimate it could achieve roughly anywhere betwen 15 and 20 percent savings in the consumption of gasoline. that plan specifically goes as follows: you have one car in the family. you designate the day upon which that car will  be on the road. you go down to the post office and get a certain colored sticker and put it on your windshield. if that car is found on the road on that particular day. the driver is arrested and/ or fined. by the local law enforcement authority. if in that family you have two cars. for the second car you would designate 2 days to be off the road. and you could coordinate plans with regard to your first car. if you want. you would get two stickers on the windshield. the car could  be on the road on those two days. anything above two cars would be prohibited from going on the road 5 days during the week. i exempt agricultural and commercial vehicles from this plan. clearly. what is going to happen is. yes. there is going to be some inconvenience. but you are going to have cars off the road x number of days. and you are going to conserve gasoline. the only cost as far as i can see it is the cost that it takes to print up the sticker that goes on your windshield. insofar as enforcement is concerned. let this be handled by local law enforcement officials. the localities can keep the fines. as far as any black market is concerned. there obviously would  be one. stiff fines would be established for cheatingit would  be worth it to cheat.
we do  k. but i do k what happens when you start fooling around with the pricing mechanism. somebody is being pushed off the road because they can afford to be on the road. this is a little different. my own community in the state of connecticut is a very fortunate community. rather on the affluent side. a town of about 70.000. i imagine that you would probably have to get close to over a dollar before people would stop driving their cars. but long before that. the people of bridgeport. hartford. and new haven would stop driving their cars. what is also important is that the thermostats will stay as they are in the houses of congress. at 70. 72. or whatever. but  in some homes. the thermostats will go down to 55. 56. and 58. that is important. too. in this overall problem. so perhaps i do  k all the answers relative to my program. but i k that it applies to everybody. whereas. the. pricing mechanism invariably comes down hardest on the shoulders of the few.
. relative to this legislationand there is  much that i can add to the words of the distinguished senator from indianalet us make it clear that neither he  i want to pour money down a rat hole. and when it comes to penn central railroad that is just about the best way to describe it. but the fact is that our concern relates to jobs. to other people. we are  concerned about. you k. management ripping off the railroad. that is longer there. we are  interested in the stockholders and the bondholders. i really do  care about them at all. i do care about the persons whose jobs depend on the penn central railroad. that is  only those who work on the penn central railroad but those who work for the other railroads and. indeed. those whose jobs touch upon the railroad in that the products and the materials delivered by the railroad touch upon their ecoic wellbeing. that is my concern. my second concern is that i do  think we should spend any money at all if we did  have a longrange plan. but we do have a longrange plan. slowly but surely we are doing away with the fear of government participation in the rail system. that is a fact of life . and it is going to become increasingly so in the future. naturally. i would hope that the strong elements of our rail system that are represented by private enterprise continue. although the facts. as i see them. spell out a gloomy picture for the future again unless something is done . but. in any event. over the hill. as soon as it is 1976. there lies the prospect of integrated rail transportation plans designed and executed by the government. e of what we are doing here would benefit any stockholders or bondholders. they would  be enriched to come back to the government in the future. but it would keep this important part of the ecoy active. for those reasons. i fully support this effort and i thank the senator from indiana for carrying the ball. because ody wants it. i will tell everyone that. and all we do is get abuse from those senators who say we are bailing out the penn central. i want to make that point. we are  bailing out penn central. we are keeping americans at work. that is our only concern. i do  care about the penn central itself. i feel we should nationalize anyway all our passenger service. insofar as the essential rail services. private enterprise does  want it. the government has to take over. i do  care about penn central. i care about the public and the ecoy. so that is what the bailing out is all about.  for some rich corporate executive. or shareowners. or bondholders. or wall street types. or anything of that nature. it directs itself toward maintaining jobs and  allowing. at least. that segment of the ecoy that touches upon the rail system to disintegrate further. that is the effort. it is a dirty job that. quite frankly. i do  want and the senator from indiana does  want. it is easy to demagog against. but when we do from  on. when we do our demagoging. i would appreciate it if our colleagues direct their discussion against the ecoy.  give a leg up to some people that ought to be in the clink. never mind wandering around accepting federal dollars
i do  want to mislead the distinguished senator from idaho at all as to the dollar amounts that will be involved in the future. we are talking about billions. when the senator from indiana and i have addressed this subject. we have in way indicated that this amount is the final amount. question  1 is a good question posed by the senator from idaho. it should be asked. very frankly. the american people should have the answer. they should have it . they should have the hard truth of the matter. the hard truth of the matter is that the rehabilitation of our rail systems in this country is a multibilliondollar project. i will just be glad when we get over with this phase that i describe as cleaning off the stage. if you will. so that we can put into effect the permanent solutions. but it is a multibllliondollar operation. about a month ago we had this matter before us. because of the denial of the freight increase and the anticipated revenues therefrom it has grown $25 million in a matter of a month.
in that report. in listing the whys and wherefores for the collapse of the penn central. there is question that aside from the management. aside from the ecoic conditions. the conditions of the highways. the inaction of the congress. the inaction of the railroads themselves. the icc was of help in all of this. as the distinguished senator from idaho ks. there is a strong possibility of a joint effort for the commerce committee and the committee on government operations to go into these major regulatory agencies to see whether they are any help at all. yes. the same question would come to my mind. if a rate increase is applied for and these fellows are going fiat on their backs. why the denial. one would have to ask the icc. i k they certainly have been help in keeping the american rail system viable.
. i think the answer is that actually if we had a total liquidation and brought the whole operation to a halt right . actually. the stockholders would do better than under continuation. i do  think they will benefit from this legislation. i think if they closed the shop tomorrow and sold off everything they had. they would be in better shape. the legislation is designed to make sure they will  benefit from these moneys. which are geared toward enabling them to continue operations. i have to confessyou see. the difficulty the senator is having is the same difficulty that i have and the senator from indiana has. in that we sort of feel like someone is making us do this. you k. as with a club over our heads. and to a certain extent i suppose that is true. except that we have to understand who constructed the club. and that is what was referred to by the distinguished senator from indiana when he said it was a combination of mismanagement and of congress  coming up with a comprehensive plan. as the senator from idaho was calling for 4 years ago. all of these things are what constitutes a club over our heads. i must say to the senator from indiana that insofar as rail passenger traffic is concerned. i think that nationalization is  only the answer. i think it is in effect right . we have. in effect. government transportation. the national department of transportation. the state transportation authorities. and amtrak. in effect. amount to nationalization. i k the word is  popular. but it is. in essence. the same effect. and the government runs the rail passenger service today. it would be my hope that the stronger elements of the penn central system would be absorbed by the healthy rail systems in this nation. and there would be a minimum of governmental involvement when we reach the end of this particular road. but all i can say is that insofar as any enrichment of individuals is concerned. we have tried to be very careful  to do that. and it is my belief that if the whole operation came to a halt tomorrow. really. the creditors probably would do better than by continuing this thing in operation.
i agree. that is exactly what is going on. that is exactly the point. the senator was correct when. 4 years ago. he asked to have a comprehensive look at the whole situation and come up with solutions. we should k  what is the comprehensive condition of the rail system of the united states going to be in 1995.
i agree. i agree with the distinguished senator from idaho as to oversight of the regulatory agencies. but i also want to say one other thing as it applies to congress. it has hing to do with priorities as to whether you want highways in idaho. et cetera. i do  want to get into that argument. the senator ks what their transportation needs are. and connecticut ks what its transportation needs are. but one matter which i think has been very much of a dead hand on a longrange transportation policy as far as congress is concerned is the concept of the trust fund. because it does  make us look at our transportation needs year by year. it just sets up an automatic pilot and. whereas. maybe you have more need having to do with the highway in idaho. we do  need any more in connecticut. we need mass transit instead. so all i am saying is conceptually. regardless of whether you agree as to where the money should go. whether it should go for highway or mass transportation. congress is passing over to its entity its duties and obligations to review the transportation needs. present and future. of this country. i could  agree more. every year we should be in here. and that is what our committee should be doing. they should be asking what are the transportation needs. instead we say. "do  worry. we set up a percentage over here. and this is the way it is going to go." so we do  worry either as to what the actual needs are or are going to be. and i think if those two things were done. as the senator from idaho has suggested. the regulatory agencies really get a good hard look and oversight and.  2. congress does its job of every year coming in here and grasping the transportation needs of the country and applying its energies and its kledge to these needs. believe me. we would  have this bind. but neither of these things has been done. and both should be done.
 only the responsibility of congress. but then you are here with the penn central matter on your hands. that is basically what happened. because we did  look at our rail systems in this country. we did  come up 4 years ago with a comprehensive plan. so we are sitting here in this quagmire.
. my plea today does  so much relate to this legislation. i think that has been well gone over in the debate of the last several days. but it tries to focus on what i feel our obligations to be for the future. here we are. the strongest nation in the world. the most affluent. replete with the greatest talent techogically and scientifically. and yet we probably rank at the bottom of the list when it comes to our rail systems. i hope that our efforts will very clearly be directed  any more at operating deficits. although there will undoubtedly be some additional requestswe have made that clearbut on a total plan as it relates to rail service. one last comment: i want to reiterate that over the past several years. people have talked about millions of dollars as it relates to penn central. senator harthe and i have made it clear that in order to achieve a good rail transportation system. we are talking about billions and we are  trying to fool our colleagues on that point. and yes. these figures seem staggering within the course of one particular year. but i have to point out that it has been. . a matter of some almost 25 years when only about onehalf of 1 percent of the federal transportation dollar went to our rail systems. so if we have hing. it is because we have spent hing. even though this seems like a large amount in this year. when we compare the total amount. i would say probably in the lasti am just going off the top of my head. extrapolating figures in the last several yearsi imagine that in the last 20 years. the federal commitment has only been several billion dollarsover 25 years i am talking aboutwhereas the highway commitment has been $4. $5. and $6 billion every year. i am all for that commitment. i do  object to it. but. please. let us  show this great shock and surprise and amazement as to these amounts of money that are  being requested. what i am saying is i would rather spend more money  to assure that we have the system capable of making our people mobile. rather than having to live with the past and. indeed. have the money go down a rathole. and i think. quite frankly. at. least by my interpretation of the facts and the events. that is exactly what this bill is about. i do  portray it any other way to you. for one who dreams of great rail systems in this country. this is money down the rathole. it covers the past. let us  proceed to consider the future.
. i would like to just make a couple of remarks emanating from the discussion presented by the distinguished senator from virginia.  1. i would like to respond to the senator from virginia as to why the difference fn price between the original senate bill and the bill passed in the house. the moneys originally requested of the senate were based on the fact that the railroad would get an increase in its freight rates. that increase was denied. therefore. that figure went out the window. the house knew that when they got the legislation and upped the price. then. also. the erie lackawanna is involved in this legislation . so that upped the price. so that is the reason. and it is a valid question the distinguished senator raised. but that is the reason for the difference on the price tag as between the two. . let me make this clear. as clear as i can. i am  a highway man. ever since i have come to congress. i pleaded for better rail systems. ody has responded and we are paying the bill . i am  an operating deficit man. i pleaded in the amtrak legislation that money be earmarked for capital improvement and r. & d.. so we could get out of the deficittype situation. lastly. i have absolutely hing but ill will toward the penn central and its former management. balanced against that. i just am  willing to let the inent suffer and they are the ones going to lose their jobs either directly. if they are employed by the penn central or indirectly. if their jobs touch upon those goods and services delivered by that particular railroad. i want to make cear that both the distinguished senator from indiana and myself are.  1.  committed to a good rail system today. we have been committed to it for years but ody will go ahead either in the legislative or executive branch of government and provide it. then they complain when you get a godawful tab like this which does  build one single piece of trackage or create one locomotive. freight car. or passenger car. this money could have been spent on that. but neither the executive  the legislative branches of government. up until most recently. have provided the entities within which to accomplish that type of operation. you are getting the bill today. this report came out in 1973. i am going to repeat it. because this is what you are paying for today. you are  paying for the penn central. but the following: the penn centrals collapse stemmed from the complex interaction of a number of factors. including questionable management policy. the misdeeds of individuals. federal regulatory policies and practices. an inadequately developed national transportation policy. the national ecoy. deteriorating business conditions in the theastern part of the united states. the inability of the private sector to respond to these changes. and successful competition from other modes of transportation. in the last several decades. railroads operating in the theast and midwest found themselves in an environment where the national ecoy was changing. reducing the importance of the principal commodities carried by railroads and therefore. the role of the railroads in the transportation system. the percentage of the gross national product represented by agriculture. mining. and durable goods--heavy users of rail freight transportationdeclined during the 1960s. a trend toward locating factories closer to consumer markets reduced the demand for transportation services. the 196061 and 196870 recession had a pronced impact. in the late 1940s and early 1950s railroads virtually abandoned hauling goods in less than carload lots. it will be ed that there are two substantial areas of federal failure. the failure on the part of the regulatory agencies and the failure of the congress and the executive to develop national transportation policy. this bill is the tab for those omissions. so regardless of whatever blame is put on the shoulders of that rather unfortunate group that ran the railroad. part of the blame lies on that rather unfortunate group that has been charged with the responsibility of legislatively and executively developing our transportation policy here in this country. as i said. i have to stand here in the nature of preserving jobs. hing more building a railroad and  creating anythingand ask the congress and the american people to pay the tab for these misdeeds when indeed my whole legislative life has been saying let us build. let us create. a decent rail system. both mass and intercity. rather than to go ahead and involve ourselves in deficits.
. i confess my frustration with the pending legislation. on the one hand. it embodies a reasonable interim solution in situations when a railroad is unable to continue service by expanding the options available to the icc before the actual crisis situation. on the other hand. little in the way of a cure. let alone a proper diagis. of the sickness that is sapping the life out of the railroad industry has been forthcoming. therefore. i call on my colleagues to focus on those initial efforts by the u.s. railway association. the rail services planning office. the department of transportation. and others. to develop a comprehensive plan to put the nations railroads on the right track as a viable. competitive. and energyefficient transportation mode for americas future. the congress has acted to resolve the railroad problem in the theast region of our country. and i believe it should also take action with regard to similar problems in the midwest and other regions. therefore. pending a comprehensive resolution of the problems confronting all of our nations railroads. i urge the favorable consideration by the senate of the pending bill. s. 917. as an appropriate response to the critical situation confronting the region served by the rock island.
i would like to respond. if i may. to the senator from alabama. king of his concern. his consistent concern. in these matters. which concern i share. that i have written to the general accounting office. i have requested that they.  1. do an inventory of all the moneys that have been put out by congress and by the american people to the railroads. and also to get an evaluation as to whether or  these moneys were being properly spent. so i want to assure my colleague that whereas the distinguished senator from indiana and i have dedicated ourselves to trying to make some sense out of a deteriorating rail situation. we are  doing so in the way of just throwing out a lot of money and  having any accountability. i expect that accountability. and i do  blame the senator from alabama for raising these questions because. indeed. the track record has been very miserable up to this point. but please understand that it is  a matter of bailing out anything. it is trying to construct a rail system that will  have to come to congress in the future.
. as in executive session. from the committee on commerce. i report favorably sundry inations in the coast guard which have previously appeared in the congressional record and. to save the expense of printing them on the executive calendar. i ask unanimous consent that they lie on the secretarys desk for the information of senators.
first of all. i would remind the distinguished senator from nevada. we have probably discussed every single issue contained in the resolution and. indeed. in one manner or aher we have voted on them. and this has transpired during the past several weeks the debate has continued. what i am saying here is that we can wheel and deal a solution to this problem. that is exactly what the difficulty is when it comes to the image of the senate. or house. or politicians in general. in the mind of the american people. we are talking about the election process. this is  the highway trust fund. cambodia. this is  a matter of the sst. this is the integrity of the election process. it seems to me. in order to preserve that integrity. these matters are best resolved by the people of new hampshire. democrats. republicans. independents alike. that is why any of these compromises arrived at. in fact. they are  compromising the position of either mr. durkin or mr. wyman. they are compromising the election process. and that is what the american people do  want any more of. rather. they want decisions which will enhance. elevate. the integrity of what goes on in politics in this nation.
the only reason why i suggested it is that it is clear that the road to a solution before the full senate is blocked. the road advocated by this side. of sending it back to new hampshire. is blocked. i am just suggesting. in the interest of trying to move ahead the rest of the business of this nation.  that we forget it or set it on a shelf or devote a charade of 1 or 2 hours a day to it. but. rather. to get it back to the rules committee. to see if some movement is possible which can take place down that road. which we have  tried up to this point.
. i ask unanimous consent that arthur pankopf. malcolm sterrett. geoffrey baker. john kirtland. and david clanton of the miity staff of the commerce committee be granted the privilege of the floor during the consideration of s. 2718. the rail services act of 1975.
. i rise in support of this legislation and also to speak on its overall intent. i will try to dispel some of the wrong impressions that have been created.  by any senator or any particular group of senators. but probably from a lack of familiarity with the subject matter before us. the last thing that the senator from indiana and i want is to have to continue to come to the floor of the u.s. senate and ask for emergency funding for the various deficiencies of our rail system. be it a penn central bailout or a rock island bailout. this. indeed. has been the nature of our task over the past several years. the first misconception i wish to dispel is the complete difference between that type of legislation. a bailout. and the legislation that is  before the u.s. senate. specifically. this comprehensive program  before the senate is designed to avoid that out of emergency financing in the future. several months ago i requested of the general accounting office an investigation of the moneys that have been spent to date by the federal government in the area of railroads. i received that report a week ago. it is available for inspection by any of my colleagues. in essence. what it states is that over the past 5 years we have authorized some $4 billion in rail assistance without any comprehensive program. and. very frankly. without really doing the job intended. al moneys that have been appropriated have been on an emergency basis. so there has been longrange planning. ascertaining of future needs. if the senate turns down this bill. so be it. but for the first time we on the committee are before our colleagues with a comprehensive program designed to give the united states of america a firstclass rail system. this is  a bail out of the bankers. i think that was a very unfortunate term used the other day by the secretary. let me say in passing. the secretary of transportation has been most cooperative. yes. we have our disagreements. but there has been good cooperation and give and take between the secretary and the members of the committee. and i hope that cooperation will continue. in any event. this is  a bailout of new york bankers. it is  a bailout of the penn central or certain bankrupt railroads of the theast. it is a total plan. designed first to take care of the immediate emergency in the theast. but also to make sure that the disease does  spread across the country. the railroads involved here. are  just in the theast. but also the midwest. so already the cancer has spread into that portion of the country. everyone looks at this money and conceives of it as directed toward the theastern united states. but i think my colleagues should be aware that though it immediately contemplates both the theast and the midwest. it also contemplates moneys being available to all other sections of the country. if one takes a look at the return on investment of the socalled healthy railroads in this country. he will realize that they are only healthy when compared to other railroads. even the healthy railroads are unhealthy when compared to other industries. it is with the idea in mind that we do  want to see our strong railroads. located mainly in the south and the southwest. go the way of the railroads in the theast that the bill before the senate contemplates nationwide assistance. so the bill is geared both to the sick and the healthy. the $4 billion. over 5 years. which we provided after much fussing and fuming. has hing left to show for it. what we are asking today in the course of the debate on this legislation is. "if we are going to go spend money. let us have something to show for it. let us have a firstclass railroad system. invest in capital improvements. research and development. new track. and new systems." i did  contemplate. and i am sure the senator from indiana did . either that when the united states got into the railroad business. we would run the same trains over the same tracks in the same way. if such becomes the case. we would end up with the same bankruptcy that is  the end product of private enterprise. all we were trying to do was hold the line over the years until a program was devised which encompassed new equipment. new systems. and new rights of way. that program is here today. i can say that i envisage a great moneymaking operation insofar as the u.s. government is concerned. but breaking even if possible. i also k it is the last chance we have to avoid nationalization. philosophically. this senator has been somewhat apart frem his colleague from indiana. given my druthers. i would go right to nationalization. because private enterprise has failed. but i have foregone my wishes and tried to work something out which would give us firstclass railroad service short of nationalization. there is. of course. one alternative. which is to have rail service at all in this country. but at a time when the emphasis is  just on mobility. but also on conservation and saving energy. that hardly seems a viable alternative. let me. if i can. highlight. by referring to a particular portion of the bill. the overall problem as to how the money is spent. many of us have read in the newspapers of the conflict between the committee and the administration on the theast rail corridor.. with the administration holding to a lesser figure of $1.2 billion to bring the tracks up to 1968 and 1969 standards. opposed to that we have the proposal of the senator from indiana and myself. which is to build a new system in the theast. which would cost. somewhere between $3 billion and $4 billion. i do  want to spend 1 cent to bring the system up to the standards of 1968 and 1969. i realize the whole country seems to be in a caretaker mood  to wanting to challenge the future at all.
hing epitomizes that caretaker mood more than new legislation coming before us which harks back to standards of 6 or 7 years ago. rather than spend 1 cent in that direction. i had rather spend the money toward building a new system. let us get started on the future. rather than rebuilding the past. just rebuilding. maintaining. or repairing the track to old standards will put the government in the same position that confronted private enterprise. put the money into capital improvements. research and development. and new systems. and we can avoid the pitfalls of deficit. either we can continue $345 million emergency bailout situations coming up once. twice. three times a year to cover deficits or we go ahead with a major commitment that money  be spent in emergency ways but in a well planned way in the nature of new equipment. tracks. and systems. certainly there is hing in the track record of the past that has me in envy of it. we talk at a time of energy crisis of rails being an alternative to the highway. here is a chance to act on those words. in" the last 20 years. and i do  have the exact figures with me. i would imagine we have spent some $100 billion. roughly at an average rate of $5 billion a year on highways. and we have something to show for it. we have the greatest highway system in the world. so i do  decry that investment. as we have gotten what we paid for. during that same 20year period. i imagine the total moneys spent on rail transportation may have been in the area of $2 billion. so we are talking 2 percent. and indeed if we have a bankrupt system or system at all in many parts of the country we have gotten exactly what we paid for. we paid hing and we have received hing. so here then are the alternatives. to either continue and react to emergencies as they arise with the emergencies first coming up in the theast. then in the midwest. guaranteed to spread down through the west. and lastly probably the southwest and the south. but to continue on the present course and eventually the whole country will lose. our alternatives are then to react to crises. to appropriate money in a way that brings gain at all either in mobility or in the sense of the rail system. or to finally understand that we have to make up for the deficiencies of the past 20 years and excellently create in the area of rail transportation. 
if unanimous consent could be obtained. will the distinguished senator from kansas consider changing the figure of $900 million in his amendment to a figure of $500 million. the reason why i ask this is that the senator from kansas. in his usual way. has accurately and totally described the background for these particular funds. i want to use this occasion to say to the senate that the distinguished senator from kansas. the ranking republican member of the committee on commerce. has. been of emous help in devising forwardlooking rail policies for this country. and i speak  just as a senator from new england. because he has taken the whole country into his view in the actions he has taken. it has been a delight to work with him and under him. and also to ackledge him as really one of the great experts in this restructuring of the rail system for the united states. the reason why i ask the question. however. is that since the usra report. just like everything else that will transpire. in this rail act. it is found that costs have already crept up. i ask the senator from indiana. is that  correct.
. first. i commend the senator from kentucky for putting his finger on the point that finds me in sharp disagreement with my friend and colleague. the senator from ohio. i do  k how much longer we are going to continue out here on the floor pitting state against state and crisis against crisis. but i k one thing: this country moves damn well together and very poorly apart. i think those who have contributed to the rhetoric of division that has been going on with the new york debate. what we have  heard on this railroad debate. do hing solving problems that are common to us all. yes. we need the farmers of kentucky. very frankly. up in my consumer state up in connecticut. and kentucky needs the markets of connecticut. and the same holds true of ohio. very frankly. if it would satisfy someone in here to go ahead conceptually and start to invest in the type of equipment that will give us the firstclass rail system. go ahead and make the pilot project in ohio or kentucky. because i do  care. because the benefits of that are going to be available in every state of the union. it is only a matter of time when we are going to need the equipment developed from such a project in ohio. on the west coast. in the south. and everywhere else. in the course of a negotiating session with the secretary. it was indicated both by senator hartke and myself that the dollar amount was  important. what was important was the concept. we were willing to give on the dollar amounts if that is what the administration said was too high. and subjected it to a veto. but it was important conceptually that the national policy be geared to the future which is what the hartkeweicker provision of this bill calls for. rather than the past. under that the administrations position is $1.2 billion to put the theast rail corridor in such a condition as to meet 196768 standards. is that what the government of the united states has come to. that we go ahead and appropriate our moneys in order to reach standards of the past. are we still looking down our shoetops or trying to reach up. maybe ecoically we could  afford the moneys in this particular year. even next. that is something that can be strung out. but i think it important that conceptually we advise rail systems  based on 1967 or 1968. or . as the distinguished senator from ohio says. according to the techogy that we  have. the techogy that we  have in railroads is the same as when jesse james was hopping from car to car. take a look at them: the cars are the same. the engines are the same. when are we going to go ahead and start to produce the equipment that is going to give us  only a firstclass rail system but one that will  be in the bankruptcy situation that has been developed by private enterprise. because it did  make that kind of investment. so i repeat my point. what is needed . what is needed  is to go ahead and develop systems. rightsofway. and equipment that will well serve the future.  just bail out the present or try to duplicate the past. the concepts of this bill. and the things i point out should be made the concepts of this bill. do  apply only to the theast. they apply to the entire united states of america. and i can see the day coming. i can see the handwriting on the wall. as i earlier stated this morning. when indeed those railroads which are healthy today will need the type of policies and the type of equipment which is going to be developed should this bill be passed. i also repeat that whatever the case is we need each other very much so in this nation. i stated earlier and i might add i ran on the rocks when i said that we should avoid confrontation and conflict. i walked into a meeting with the secretary of transportation. and i got conflict. confrontation. and effort to compromise on that great portion of ground that i think we can all agree upon. so i repeat. in opposing the amendment of the senator from ohio. i do so  because it inures to the benefit of the theast. it will inure to the benefit of everyone. i oppose it because it in effect is putting development of a new rail system in a 1940 straitjacket. i do  wish to spend 1 cent. never mind the $1.2 billion the administration calls for. on merely patching up track to bring it to 196869 standards. it is  worth the money spent. this is money down the rat hole. if the compromise could be reached. and it has been rejected because it was offered. whereby the lesser amount of money that the administration advocates would be to start on the system that the senator from indiana advocates. it would take their dollar amount and apply it to our concept. apparently people like to live in the past. and people would rather go ahead and precipitate vetoes and take their chances on vetoes than constructing a first class rail system.
i rise to commend the distinguished senator from massachusetts who has well stated the case. certainly. neither he  i are insisting that transportation problems be resolved through the means of mass transit and neither do we want to have thrust upon us a highway solution to our transportation problems. it is as simple as that. we are  in any way mandating funding for any particular mode of transportation. we want maximum flexibility in order that the government of our states can deal with their particular needs. .
i thank the distinguished senator from massachusetts. . the senate has been neither orderly  expeditious in confronting this problem. the trust fund has. in the past. allowed the highway program to operate on a budgetary "automatic" pilot where vast expenditures went unquestioned as to purpose and unevaluated as to effect. funding priorities for transportation must be made in the context of other pressing social needs. the senator from massachusetts and i have suggested abolition of the trust fund. other senators have introduced legislation to alter the present trust fund mechanisms and the administration has suggested maintaining the trust fund for the purpose of finishing the interstate system with a return of some of the taxes to the states. and the transfer of other funds to general revenues. thus. while there is clear agreement on what the future financing mechanism for highway programs should be. i believe it is fair to say that a substantial number of senators believe that some change is necessary. what the committee presents to us today. however. will postpone until the next congress any consideration of the issues surrounding the trust fund. we have already delayed this issue for 5 years. what we are offered today is more procrastination. our amendment will require that this congress and this senate face the issue of the highway trust fund and resolve the questions of its reform. i shall only say that i am  one who feels we should postpone the solution for national problems until the next congress. let us face up to them . let us have some sort of record to go on. come the next election. it certainly is an area of critical importance to the nationa balanced transportation system. i believe it is a goal that we all wish to achieve. let us get to accomplishing it at the earliest possible time.
. in conclusion. i should like to make the following comments which specifically are addressed to the administration: it is a wellkn fact that there has been a certain amount of pulling and hauling among the commerce committee and its transportation subcommittee and the administration on this issue. word has come to me that the same will hold true or does hold true insofar as the administrations view of the conference report is concerned. just as we heard the word "veto" during debate on this matter on the floor of the senate a few weeks ago. so i have heard it again yesterday aftern and this morning. i hope that this particular effort. which is a substantial compromise as among three viewsthe view of the house. the view of the senate. and the view of the administrationwill  be viewed in a negative way but rather in a spirit of achievement which characterizes those three institutionsthe house. the senate. and the administration. it does good for the administration to have the american people believe that this system can be created with mirrors or without a price tag. it would be fairer to say to the american people that we can afford a rail system at this time. period. that would be honest and consistent with their particular budgetary views. what is misleading. and what this senator will  permit to happen. so far as he is able. is to give the illusion that something is being done when. in fact. all that is being done is to make sure that standards of the past are lived up to and that there is some visible sign of rolling rail stock in this country. i repeat: i hope that the administration will support this effort in the spirit in which it is devised. which is truly a spirit of compromise. between their officials and senators and representatives. if it can be done right. let us  do it at all this year. i think we have the resources. the energy. and the khow to rectify what has been overlooked for too long. somewhere in what we do in this nation. the caretaker attitude that has gripped everybody must come to an end. a caretaker attitude in rails is the same as it is in housing or any other national endeavor. it leads to stagnation. and stagnation is exactly what we have on our hands in the overall ecoic sense. there has to come that point when we are going to decide that we are going to move out for the future and  only attend to the particular need that is addressed in this caserailsbut also bring an ecoic prosperity to this nation that has been absent too long. i have told the distinguished chairman. senator hartke. that i do  want to spend 1 cent in the way of a patchup of the theast rails. what is important is that we get started on the job for the future. this bill does that. the money has been considerably negotiated and compromised downward. but i will  let go of that concept which is essential to the future and essential to having rails take its vital and meaningful place in our transportation system. that concept embodies new systems. new tracks. new equipment. and r. & d.. so that we will  have the same trains running over the same tracks in the same way resulting in the same deficits. but. rather. a new day in rails and deficits. i urge my colleagues full support. with the widest possible margin. to send a signal to the white house that we mean business the business of confrontation. but the business of a new day in railroad transportation for this country
just by way of comment. ial veto. i commend the senator from indiana and the members of the staff. both majority and miity. for having worked long and hard during the recess period to try to arrive at a general ground where we can go over the details and. hopefully. arrive at a bill to be signed. this is of emous importance.  only to the rail systems of this country. but to the ecoy of the united states. it is my hope and. i believe. that also of the senator from indiana. that the conference will prove to be productive and that within a very. very short space of time. we will have a final work product
i am delighted to respond to the distinguished senator from alabama. first. when the distinguished senator refers to the railroads of the south as prospering. i think it is important to point out that they are only prospering when set side by side with the railroads of the theast and the midwest. if the senator takes the railroad industry in the south as a private enterprise and sets it against any other industry in this country. believe me. even the railroads of the south are  in that good shape. i think the principles we are setting forth here are very definitely intended  just to bail out the railroads of the east. but to make sure that the railroads of the south still stay healthy. the return on equity. even of the most prosperous railroads in the south. and they are prosperous. is lower than that of any industry in the united states. what i am saying to the senator from alabama is if we extrapolate those figures and put them out in the future and do  do anything to help them. it is only a matter of time before those railroads go under.
may i finish responding. then i shall allow the distinguished senator from indiana to explain what help there is for other sections of the country. this is  just a theast bill. first of all. let us start right out with mismanagement by private enterprise. i do  have the exact figures here. but i remember standing on the floor several months ago. i think on the penn central bailout. and i think i stated the fact that that railroad. for 2 years running. paid dividends twice the amount of their earnings. it was a clear case of corporate mismanagement. that is  1.  2. the highway systems in the theast were built very rapidly. since it is such a small area. and they are running side by side in competition with these railroads. our building of a superb highway system in the theast was also responsible for putting the railroads out of business through competition. and it was competition subsidized by the american taxpayers. if you will. whereas the railroads were . i can go down a list of reasons. and i am  excusing anyone. whether it is our transportation policies. or mismanagement by private enterprise. the fact is that for the first time. we are trying to come forth with a comprehensive solution that is  intended as a subsidy but. rather. to create a system which will be able to stand on its own two feet. if we ran the same railroads over the same tracks in the same way. the senator is right. it would be the same situation. except it would be dumped in the laps of the taxpayers instead of being in the hands of private enterprise. i would like to have a response by the senator from indiana as to what railroads are helped outside of the theast. and why.
i think that i can fault in any way the suspicions of the distinguished senator from alabama. 1336" the track record is miserable. there is question about it. but i do want to draw the line between what we have done in the past here. which the senator from alabama is opposed toand i respect him for it. as i said. i can fault his feelings. but there is a considerable difference between that. bailing out these railroads. and building a railroad system for the united states of america. which is what is going on in this bill. those are two entirely different propositions. i made the statement to the distinguished senator from alabama that i am  coming out here to bail out anybody. i am  going to do that.
. when the full senate considers the airport and airways development act amendments of 1976. i intend to introduce an amendment to prohibit the operation of civil supersonic aircraft in air transportation in the united states. the senate commerce committee is scheduled to report out this legislation on february 17. during committee consideration. this amendment was defeated by a vote of 9 to 10. specifically. this amendment would prohibit any expenditure of funds authorized under section 303 of the federal aviation act. to be made that would authorize or permit. except in an emergency. the operation of civil supersonic aircraft in the united states. on february 4. secretary coleman decided to allow the anglofrench concorde to land at j. f. k. and dulles airports on a limited basis for the next 16 months. in testimony before secretary coleman. the environmental protection agency concluded thatintroduction of concorde service runs directly counter to the se abatement and other environmental policies and programs of the united states. such service will subject people to significant environmental impacts and will undermine and negate essential abatement efforts  underway. serious questions still remain with respect to the environmental impact of sst flights in the united states. the concorde is sier and dirtier than conventional jet aircraft. according to the environmental impact statement. the se levels produced by the concorde will be perceived as at least twice as loud as the boeing 707 or the mcdonnell douglas dc8. the sst ranks as one of the worst polluters of all time. on the average. the concorde exceeds proposed epa emission standardswhich all planes must meet by 1979by almost 250 percent. the decision by secretary coleman to permit concorde landings opens the door to health and environmental dangers which we deemed unacceptable when we stopped the american development of the sst 2 years ago. until those dangers are arrested. congress should go on record in opposition to the operation of the concorde in the united states. this amendment is  an attempt to thwart techogical progress. the amendment specifically prohibits the operation of civil supersonic aircraft "in air transportation" in the united states. as defined in the federal aviation act of 1958. air transportation would "mean the carriage by aircraft of persons or property as a common carrier for compensation or hire." thus. the amendment would continue to allow for flights to test any techogical improvements in the concorde. should the congress become satisfied that concorde can operate in an environmentally sound manner it can take specific action authorizing the operation of this plane in the united states.
i say to the senator that i respect his kledge of aviation but. very frankly. connecticut is very much in the traffic pattern of new york airports. they are all over the state of connecticut in their landing patterns and holding patterns. i respect his general kledge of aviation. but i suggest in this area some specifics might help
. as in executive session. from the committee on commerce. i report favorably sundry ination in the coast guard which have previously been printed in the congressional record and i ask unanimous consent that they lie on the secretarys desk for the information of senators.
  . i will in a minute. but i think there is a broader issue involved and. i might add. great numbers involved. coming from a manufacturing state. i am  from a clean air western state. we are a manufacturing state. we probably have more interstate highways and more automobiles per capita than any other state in the union. but it was almost as the role connecticut played during the vietnam war. connecticut was per capita the greatest defense state in the union. but one wanted to go to war so they could hold onto their jobs. as far as i am concerned. it is also that point which is presented here today. i do  want the weakest of our citizens to be penalized so that others can lead their life undiscombobulated. uninconvenienced. i think the time has come to face up to this issue. the fact is we have made significant progress. the fact is that we can stand still. certainly we are  going to go ahead by taking a step backward. i again have to make the point that what the senator from colorado is proposing is the middle ground. i think it is a disgrace that one day of extension is being accorded the automobile industry. it is  the elderly or the poor of my state who have the money to go ahead and correct the situation. it is the automobile industry. but instead of spending the money to do the job that was so necessary they had to make every american feel he was mario andretti. bigger. better. faster. and dirtier. i would like to see the figures someday out of detroit on what is spent on r. & d. relative to fuel efficiency and relative to pollution. it is minuscule.
i would  want to let one of my words of wisdom drop unheeded on the floor of the u.s. senate. i thank the chair. the bill before the senate includes authorization for new agencies in houston and detroit at $147.000 each. i support the establishment of these agencies. both of which are clearly needed. in addition. . we need to expand the present system  to meet a level of demand far in excess of existing facilities. the new travel document system will  be with us for several years at leastmore than egh time for the proposed new agencies to recover these initial outlays and still meet the publics demands. therefore. i urge the adoption of this amendment. in our preliminary discussions. the committee has indicated opposition to this proposal. i hope this would meet with the approval of the committee.
very much so. and believe me new york needs more cars going in new york than it presently has. and it would be well if it could be eliminated. it is. as the senator says. an individual trip by automobile. mileagewise from most sections of connecticut it probably averages out at around a 50- or 60mile trip. 120mile round trip.
. i believe this comprehensive legislation will provide the congress with a vehicle to effectively assist this essential. industry. this legislation integrates the insights and comments of many experts in this field and reflects major improvements over previous legislation that i have introduced. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
in response to the distinguished senator from new york. the committee did determine that. indeed. the administration had fallen far short of its promises relative to assistance to our urban areas and whatever promises were made in the formation of a new urban bank concept. the fact is. that hing would be on stream for quite a few years down the line. whereas. eda was a vehicle already in place. more importantly. the title ii within eda was the type of situation very similar to an urban bank which could be used to bring capital into urban areas as it had to rural areas over the past years. this is a very careful deliberation. obviously mr. hall is receiving his directions from the administration. the administration apparently has its own ecoic urban plans. i do  believe they have ever gone through committee. never mind the floor of the house of representatives or the senate. yet i think that if anyone around here wants to avoid further new york loan situations. may i suggest that we start to do the job through the private enterprise system. which is what eda and title ii is about.
dealing with the trust fund. provided further. that there be 2 hours each on the following amendments: an amendment by mr. kennedy. dealing with planning. by mr. culver. a bridge amendment. provided further. that there be 20 minutes on any debatable motion. appeal. or point of order. if such is submitted to the senate or on which the chair entertains debate. to be equally divided between and controlled by the mover of such amendment and the manager of that title of the bill. that the time in opposition thereto be controlled by the miity leader or his designee. provided further. that on the question of final passage of the said bill. debate shall be limited to 2 hours on title i. which is the highway bill. to be equally divided between and controlled by mr. bentsen and mr. chafee. 1 hour on title ii. which is the highway safety portion. to be equally divided between and controlled by mr. can and mr. schmitt. provided further. that amendments to title ii shall be in order until the chair has ascertained that there are further amendments to title i to be offered. and that once title i of the bill has been amended and the chair has ascertained that more amendments to that title will be offered. further amendments to that title will  be in order. provided further. that after the amending process on titles i and ii has been completed. the bill be laid aside until again called up by the majority leader for the purpose only of adding the text of s. 2441 as title iii and germane amendments thereto. and that the agreement be in the usual form.
i thank the senator from massachusetts. i rise to support the amendment. in reminiscing a moment ago with my staff. i ed that it has been 9 years since the senator from massachusetts and i first proposed this principle in the form of an amendment or one bill or aher. for 9 years we have been defeated. i do  k what the result will be this evening. i have a feeling it might adhere to past historical patterns. i think it has to be pointed out that certainly life in this country and around the world has very much changed within that period of time. and yet the highway trust fund is still with us in basically its original form. i have read a great deal as to the concern of the administration as it relates to the failure of this nation to adopt any sort of an energy program. yet in its initial presentation to the country and the congress. the administrations energy program specifically skirted around the issue of mass transit and public transportation. as a conservation measure. that is still the case today.  just so far as the admiistration is concerned. but also the congress. there is hing that we can do that would further the cause of conservation more than to make available to the citizens of this country transportation other than the automobile. yet that has  been the will of the congress.  has it been the will of the president. i realize that this is  the forum for legislation to discuss the production side as a solution to the energy crisis. it is. however. the forum to discuss the demand side. the consumption side. the senator from massachusetts and i have. for 9 years. put forth the idea that there are means with which to move about this nation other than the automobile. we do  insist that you take a subway or that you take a train or that you take a bus. what we are saying is that. in the resolution of our transportation difficulties. at least. let us have the option to decide what is the best solution. right . the best solution is a highway. because you can be guaranteed 90 percent federal dollars if you adopt a highway solution. well. that is  good traffic engineering. it is good politics. in my state of connecticut. we have almost totally completed our highway system. but we desperately need bus transportation. e of our cities is big egh for mass transit rail. but we need mass transit bus. indeed. as the population centers shift to many of the cities of the south and southwest and the west. believe me. what will be demanded there is rail facilities in order to move people about. today. in los angeles. calif.. they are stuck with the automobile. period. there is hing else that they can do. even though it chokes them to death.  just in the sense of the early morning commuter hour. but in the sense of their bodies. they are getting choked to death. it is  a situation we have to live with. .
s plan. i have advocated a 6day week for the automobile. you pick a day of the week when you are  going to drive. put a color identifiable sticker on your windshield. if you are out driving on that day. you will be arrested. if you have two cars in your family. 2 days for the second car. if you really have benefited from the bounty of this country by having three cars. 3 days a week for the third car. i have advocated closings of gas stations. that is something we will have coming before us. i have advocated. in the lighting area. going far beyond just turning off advertising lights: you can fly over any major city in this country. and every floor in every office building is ablaze. at 2 and 3 in the morning. for whose benefit. on the other side of the conservation coin. while we are sitting here and asking for sacrifices. this is the same nation that says we are going tc cut back our commitment to rail servicewe want to cut back on amtrakright in the middle of the crisis. this is the same nation in which several states. only 1 week before the iranian crisis. said. "we dont like the 55mileperhour speed limit. and were going to contest it." remember that. so far as i am concerned. it will be 50 miles per hour. we would save more lives and save even more fuel. we should be supporting mass transit. both rail and bus. in addition to these various rationing measures which have such an impact on the individual. if we do that for a year. we then can tell opec what to do with their product line. and when that day arrives. that is the day the prices come down.
. what i am suggesting here today. in disapproval of the plan of the secretary of transportation is that circumstances have changed so radically that this whole matter of what our rail policies should be and what our rail system should be should undergo immediate review.  let me get to the business of what a passenger rail system in this country should consist of. if people will go back and look at the record. to the time i used to stand on the floor with my good friend the senator from indiana and we used to argue for amtrak. they will find that the record is very consistent.  1. i remember our late departed colleague. senator allen. used to give senator hartke and myself a hard time on the subject of amtrak. and we made it crystal clear at that time that we did  expect that amtrak would ever make any money. so i do  deal from a proposition that it has  made money. therefore. it is good. it has  and it will  be profitable. let me cite the figures as to how other nations subsidize their rail passenger service. japan. $4.1 billion a yearthis is subsidization of their rail system. which is one of the finest in the worlditaly. $1.5 billion: germany. $1.5 billion. france. $0.9 billion. england. $0.7 billion. every single major ecoic power in this world has a decent passenger rail system and they pay for it. and it is  a moneymaker. in those countries. the ability to move by rail is as integral to the quality of life as education. housing. health care. or whatever. i. as one of the creators and proponents of amtrak and a decent rail system in this country. have never advocated there would be a profitmaking operation. when i hear the distinguished senator from louisiana state that some of these lines might be taken over in the future by enterprising individuals. may i point out to everyone here that the reason why amtrak was created and conrail was created was private enterprise. at least in this particular instance. could  do the job. the only choice was between total abandonment and the u.s. government coming along and picking it up. and that was it. so. i do  think every 8 years i am willing to go ahead and try again the system that after almost 70 years produced hing. let us talk about transportation and where we have allocated our money in this country and maybe just a recitation of the 1980 budget might give senators an idea as to why we have rail system. highways in 1980 are scheduled to receive $8.5 billion. aviation $3.03 billion. mass transit $3.5 billion. then rail at $1.6 billion. or 9 percent of the federal transportation dollar.
i say to the distinguished senator from missouri. since i was the one that stood on the floor of this chamber cleaxly setting forth what it is we were about in the business of amtrak. i would very much disagree with the answer that was supplied or the innuendo in the question. it was never portrayed to this body this would be a moneymaking operation. it was never portrayed to this body that there would be anything but increased sums required to build a firstclass rail system. so. when it is talked about pouring money down a rathole. i would suggest that rebuilding a firstclass national rail system from scratch is going to require money. that is the way it was put before this body 8 years ago. 7 years ago. 6 years ago. 5 years ago. and even . . if a new policy has come to pass. as put forth by the senate commerce committee. that amtrak is to be a money making operation. let us understand that is their policy. that is  the way it was presented to the u.s. senate.
i will be glad to respond to my distinguished friend from missouri. let us spend the same amount on rails as we have spent on highways. $6 billion a year. and then you are going to have a firstclass rail system. just like you have got a firstclass highway system. tell me something. since the senator from montana is here. to make a point. the senator does  have all that much air service into montana. certainly into all of the smaller towns. and if a person can get into their automobile because they do  have gasoline. just tell me how they are going to move about. how you are going to get into montana and how you are going to get about. i am  speaking for the theast corridor. in which i live. which is part of my constituency. we have probably the best percentage ridership in this whole affair. that is  the point. that will go ahead and sustain itself. and that is being improved in the capital sense as we have the improvement project going on. i am talking for a national rail system. how. if there is gasoline. and with smaller towns than they have in montana.  being the object of the airlines affection. will you please tell me how. people are going to move about in montana in a situation of crisis as is  coming upon this country.
does my colleague wish to speak for a minute before i get to the 1979 comments on the same bill. i might add. my colleague was the only one to show courage. in 1977 and it was courage for the simple reason. if i am  mistaken. that this was prior to his election. politicians do  usually like to go running around campaigning on rationing themes. it was a tough election my distinguished colleague from illis made. he was the only republican to stand up 2 years ago for some minimal form of conservation. a 6day week for the automobile he deserves it for his courage.
to continue the comments of the distinguished senator from louisiana: first. it penalizes people in rural america who depend on automobiles for their transportation. secondly. the amendment says that those who own more than one vehicle shall  receive an advantage. it refers to the individual owning more than one vehicle. a family with husband and wife that have two vehicles would be exempted. i guess. at least. that is the way the language is drawn. if . then i submit that the wife who marries the husband would be then. treated as the husbands chattel and. indeed. in this day of womens liberation. of a women being treated as an individual. she ought to have the same rights as aher individual. i am sure that is the reason this amendment is drawn in terms of an individual. that suggests the difficulties in trying to make this work. what we would end up with is married couples with two cars prcceeding as usual. those with only one automobile are penalized if they live in the rural areas where they depend on their cars. there is provision here for emergency use of automobiles. and what about the working person. who works 5 or 6 days. and. finally. his %%eekend comes. a time when he is planning to do his shopping. or maybe to take a trip out to the lake. that takes a very small amount of gasoline. he is prohibited from doing that. while hing is said about the truly energyprofligate people who all the rest of the week. have wasted energy and. maybe. did  have to work during the week. the amendment is replete with problems. its intent we applaud. its purpose we applaud. the initiative. the imagination of the senator from connecticut. we applaud. because he is headed in the right direction. we want to encourage him to continue to seek ways to save energy. but with this particular amendment. we can agree. we. therefore. reluctantly urge the senate to reject it. does that sound familiar. does it sound familiar. to my colleagues i suggest the following: i supported president carter here in the chamber several weeks ago. i did  agree with all the prevision of his plan. i thought it terribly important that the concept of conservation. mandatory conservation. be established. so i supported it with just as much passion and strength at my command as i support my own amendment.
. last week. this congress failed to vote on the proposed amtrak systems plan which. if fully implemented. will reduce the intercity rail passenger network by 43 percent. the plan. drafted by the department of transportation at the request of congress. was begun and has been carried out during a period when the supply of oil was relatively stable. since january 1979. with the collapse of the shah of iran. the cutback in saudi arabia and the dramatic price increases imposed by opec. the energy situation in this country has changed dramatically. i hope we have all begun to realize that this oil shortage is  just a temporary problem. i can assure you that one is going to just turn on the spigot again and all our problems will disappear. we are in for a 20year energy crunch and. like it or . we are being kicked out of our automobiles. there are  many alternatives available to move people from city to city and into the city centers from suburban areas.  is  the time to rationalize our intercity rail network. we need other proof of the increase in public demand for rail service than the ridership figures and the number of inquiries that amtrak has had over the last 2 months and in particular over the recent memorial day holiday. in the washington post. thursday. may 31. 1979. i refer to an article entitled "travel record nationwide on amtrak rails" which lays out the statistics: los angeles to san diego service128.037 riders during may. the all-
argues loan guarantees for this facility should be eliminated. what he fails to point out however is the profits and increased income to be generated by the rail production plant are inseparably tied to wheelingpittsburghs ability to finance $86 million in pollution control expenditures. mr. weicker would allow a $36.5 million guarantee for pollution control but what is the point if wheelingpittsburgh is to be denied the income from the rail facility to pay off its loans. is the senator suggesting the federal government guarantee loans that can be paid back. by voting for the senators amendment we may well guarantee default. i for one want to cut back on government spending  increase it. the senator raises several arguments against loan guarantees for the rail facility. the facts. however. refute each of his contentions. first. the senator contends the loan guarantees exceed edas own guideline ration of one job for each $10.000 worth of guarantees. although the monessen facility will employ only 300 people. this is  the relevant statistic. wheelingpittsburgh employees 14.500 people7.300 in ohio. 5.100 in pennsylvania. and 2.100 in west virginia. the comprehensive guarantee loan package that wheelingpittsburgh is developing with eda and farmers home affects all three states. all company facilities. all company employees. we are  talking about 300 new jobs. we are talking about the livelihoods of 14.500 people and the ecoic stability of countless communities. second. the senator from connecticut contends that the steel program is  intended to assist companies in activities like the rail facility at monessen. but program guidelines state: the intent of this program is to finance the physical. financial. and techogical modernization of eligible firms in the steel industry. modernization is specifically defined to include: pollution control equipment. product related capital and organizational improvements which enhance profitability by improving the quality of existing products or by facilitating production of new products. this is exactly the type of activity wheelingpittsburgh has proposed. the rail facility will enhance profitability by facilitating the production of new products. the rail mill will be built on the site of a rod and wire mill which was closed in 1972. for the past 7 years. the company has  had any finishing capacity at the monessen plant. steel produced at monessen is transferred to other plants in an ingot or semifinished form. this situation is  efficient. the new rail mill will use hot metal produced at monessen which was previously devoted to the rod and wire mill. senator weicker also contends that wheelingpittsburgh has a $77 million line of credit which he implies might be used for acquisitions. again. let us look at the facts. wheelingpittsburgh is in the final stages of completing a loan agreement with a consortium of banks for a $77 million revolving credit agreement. these funds are to be used only for working capitalthe terms of the agreement require it. as most of my colleagues k. companies of wheelingpittsburgh size need standby credit agreements to smooth out cash flow variations. the company has assured me that these funds are  available and will  be used for longterm capital projects. i might also point out. the $77 million revolving credit agreement is conditioned upon the federal longterm loan guarantees since the banks recognize that only through the rail mill and the resolutions of wheelingpittsburgh environmental problems will the firm gain the financial stability to remain ecoically viable. the working capital funds are necessary during the construction period and initial operation of the rail mill and pollution control projects. thus. once again. a more thorough analysis reveals the interrelated and interdependent nature of these loan programs. i admit the wheelingpittsburgh situation is complicated. but i think we perform a great injustice if we fail to comprehensively look at the problem in its entirety. all i ask is that we review the facts: wheelingpittsburgh provides approximately 14.500 jobs. it is an employer which can be replaced and can survive without assistance. the company needs eda loan guarantees of $100 million. this supplemental will provide the necessary resources if eda approves the financial package. the loan guarantees will be used to install pollution control devices and to develop a rail mill. without the rail mill. the companys ability to finance the pollution control program and to assure future profitability will be jeopardized. the rail bill and pollution control efforts fit within the edas special program to assist the steel industry and conforms with section 702 requirements of the public works and ecoic development act. eda has conducted an extensive study of the proposed rail mill and concludes the plant "should have adverse effects on efficient competing rail mills and the additional output of rails will be absorbed by increasing demand." the federal railroad administration agrees with the documented need for this new mill and conrail has already indicated it will purchase 20 to 30 percent of its rail needs from the mill. clearly. the facts are there and there is credible reasons for deleting the funds in the supplemental.
also says: edas principal supporting study fo rail capacity within the industry is completely invalid due to unreliable surveys and shoddy analysis. i would reply that section 702 (prevention of unfair competition) of the public works and ecoic development act. prohibits federal guarantees of financing which will result in excess domestic capacity (p.l. 89136. code reference 42uscs3212). . the responsibility for determining "domestic capacity" in such cases as this rests. by law. with the secretary of commerce. the department of commerce. acting under its mandate. undertook an extensive study of domestic capacity for the production of rails. and concluded. in its official report. that the rail mill proposed by wheelingpittsburgh will  result in overcapacity. the characterization of this legal. official. and extensive report. as "completely invalid due to unreliable surveys and shoddy analysis" is a matter of purely subjective judgment. and is  supported by the evidence.
. the distinguished senator from pennsylvania in his remarks is right on target. i point out to my colleagues that the $54 million which i ask for capital improvements in this amendment is down from the $100 million which was in the original amendment. let me say clearly that even the $100 million was inadequate. in order to get a firstclass rail system in this country we would have to spend exactly what we spend on highways. and we are talking about $6 billion a year. then we would have ourselves a rail system which would be first class. such as the highway system is first class in this nation. so understand that those of us who believe in the concept are trying to build slowly toward this goal. block by block. from the ground up. we are very much inhibited by the highway trust fund spending its $6 to $8 billion on more highways. yet we k that the people of america are going to get kicked out of the automobile. we are expected to do with $54 million to start from scratch what a highway system. which is already first class. is getting $6 to $8 billion a year to do. it does  make much sense. but in any event. there has to be a starting point. and this is it. i ask unanimous consent that my amendment be accepted as a modification of the leahy substitute.
s energy plan when they said. "where are the provisions for mass transit and alternate forms of transportation." that was a good question when asked. and is still a good question. and will be a good question tomorrow. i am sure. after the vote is over. and the month after that and the year after. i would hope that at least we would show some sensitivity to this changing world around us. to our increasingly impoverished circumstances. and agree that there are more important things than the automobile and the highways. and agree that new occasions demand new responses 30 -yearold responses. but new responses. i urge the adoption of my amendment.
 let me respond to some of the facts which have been put forth in the debate. the distinguished senator from texas has said that the trust fund is a cap. he ks well. as well as i do. that it is  a cap. the congressional budget office estimates that anticipated receipts will  cover authorized spending levels over the next 3 to 4 years. the trust fund is operating with a $7 billion deficit in 1978. the trust fund revenues are leveling off. but the expenditures. as he has indicated. are increasing. it is possible that general funds will have to be used. it is  a cap. he might have many arguments on his side. but he should  use that one. point  2: he asked the question. does the senator from connecticut intend to cut highway funds. yes. yes. everybody thinks there is going to be a resolution of the energy crisis without any change in anything at all. that we can drive as much as we drove. that in the application of a transportation system. the highway is still going to be  1 and in its same relative position to other forms of transportation. that we can continue to embody or embrace those programs which do  give us additional production to the fossil fuel. the senator from texas ks full well i mentioned additional production of fossil fuels as being essential to our getting out of the energy crisis. i point out to my distinguished colleague that i was the only new england senatorthe only one. and have been since 197374. for 5 yearsto vote for decontrol and deregulation. so much so that i am called by my opponents in new england the third senator from texas. texas hardly needs a third senator. what we do need is additional production. along with the conservation i mentioned. along with the alternate forms of transportation. that decontrol position is unpopular in new england. as i am sure my mandatory conservation position and my highway position is unpopular in texas. but.  carters. but do i think he deserves more support on the power that is given to him to get us out of this energy problem. i sure do and i have supported him on those points. if you ask the people of the state of connecticut what are our priorities right  in that small state. they would answer. "we need more bus systems. we need more rail service." this does  mean to say we do  have some highway needs. but they have become minimized as the interstate system has been completed in some states. that is  the case in all states. what i am asking for is an option. locale by locale. to meet the circumstances of that area. and certainly more specifically. the circumstances that confront us as a nation. the senator from texas mentioned the fact that rail transportation is just good for those areas of heavy population concentration. that used to be the case. it is longer. how many have heard senator melcher from montana stand up here and plead for amtrak funds for his state. which. on a ridership basis up to . would  justify additional rail service or the maintenance of the rail service that was there. but with people  being in their automobiles in montana. they also have to get around. i do  care if there is only one senator. it has hing to do with whether it is 1. 10. or 100.000. if people can move and can get into their automobiles something should be done. yes. i supported the senator from montana. as i would texas. iowa. wherever. in seeing to it that their constituents are protected from a crisis which is  regional in its nature but. rather. national. lastly. the business of its being a user tax. i pay it. as everybody does when we buy a gallon of gasoline. i am  necessarily paying that tax to build aher highway. i am paying that tax so i can moveso i can move. however that occurs. do you think the people who are sitting there in the worlds greatest parking lot. on long island. bumper to bumper. for 2 hours. do you think that is what they want. or do they want more efficient rail systems running between manhattan and the island. they want to move. however that is best accomplished. that is what we are paying our taxes toward. how many of us have flown over sections of this country. and all of a sudden see a highway going to here and ending. that is whit i can see with this automatic pilot. this legislative automatic pilot is going to keep on spitting out those highways. even though there are going to be cars on them. as you fly across this couhtry. you are going to see stretch after stretch of concrete. ending here with hing on it. there will be the final testimony to the legislative wisdom of the u.s. senate.
 first of all. the senator from texas asked the question. where would we be if we did  have this system. this highway trust fund. i will tell you where we would be: we probably would be where we were right after world war ii. when we had highways. and we would be where we are right  in the year 1979. where we have rails. that is where we would be and where we are. the question i ask the senator from texasi have to lay my traps out in front of me here. i realize it is going to be several years before the correctness of my position is borne out. i estimate that you fellowsby that i mean the committee. the distinguished senator from west virginia. and the distinguished senator from texasare going to have to go for general fund moneys to balance things out sometime in the near future. i wonder if the distinguished senator from texas would like to comment: at such time as any portion of this fund has to be supplemented by general funds. would that be the proper time. then. will we then have crossed the line to the elimination of the highway trust fund. therefore sending up the whole issue each year for legislative determination. rather than just some small part of it. which is asking for supplementary funding.
the senator from oregon is the chairman of the appropriations committee. he felt very strongly. having lived through 2 or 3 years of it. that the time had come to put an end to this business of legislation on an appropriations bill. that it had totally bogged down the whole process. and it has. so he differentiated between his position legislatively as a senator from oregon and his position as chair. mal of the appropriations committee as to the procedures on the last vote we had. and he voted against the helms language. even thoigh substantively he believed in it. feeling that there was a proper way to bring that to a vote out here and that he would be voting for it. the senator from oregon illustrates his own point as to a proper way and a wrong way to do things and how sometimes we are divided as to the matter of procedure and as to the matter of law. as to the matter of substance in our opinions. i also say to the senatorand it may be a comment on the temper of the times. with respect to those of you in the leadership. for the reason i have stated. as a matter of procedure. of voting against the senator from th carolinathat i also recall the threat that: people will be watching. and there will be excuse as to whether or  you think you are voting on a matter of procedure. they will be watching. that is the temper of these times. i want to make the record clear. here and .-i k exactly how the senator voted and why he votedto try. as the new chairman of that committee. to bring sense. to bring order to our new procedures on the senate floor and  have them the shambles they have been in the past several years. as both of us k. as members of the appropriations committee. it took a great act of courage on the part of the senator from oregon to temporarily set aside his cc ivictions on the substance. to achieve the proper constitutional procedures. the only thing i am sorry for was to hear anyone stand on this floor and say. "they will be watching. they will be watching. they will be watching." well. i hope they are watching . i can make it any clearer than i have made it in the past 5 hours. in any event. there are proper ways through our process to achieve particular legislative ends. i would have difficulty at all if the antibusing amendment were proposed as a constitutional amendment. does the senator k why it is  proposed as a constitutional amendment. it is very clear. it is tough. very tough. i refer to article v: whenever twothirds we are  talking about a majority. the congress. whenever twothirds of both houses shall deem it necessary. shall propose amendments to this constitution. or. on the application of the legislatures of twothirds of the several states. shall call a convention for proposing amendments. which. in either case. shall be valid to all intents and rurposes. as part of this constitution. when ratified by the legislatures of threefourths of the several states. * * *. that is a tough road. that is  a simple majority on a rider on an authorization bill. that is tough.  let us take aher way to go. the constitutional way is too tough. and it is a bad idea to sit in the sunlight too long. it taints even those who propose it. so let us take the other road. let us take the road that you have a piece of legislation and i hhve a piece of legislation. regardless of what it is. what do we do. first. we have our staffs sit down and draw a bill. we bring the bill to the well. and it is assigned to a committee. we have to wait while that matter is referred to a committee and we get agreement to have a hearing on the bill. a hearing is held. the committee is going to meet on it. everything we do here has to be duplicated in the other house. and finally maybe it will come here or there. and maybe we will get a conference. and maybe it will go to the president and then it will be subject to the courts. that takes time. we can afford to have time on this matter. we need it for political purposes . senators. so the fastest way we can do that. to obviate that process. is to put it as a rider on an authorization bill. the senator ks as well as i k the bad things that happen in the dead of night. that happen in the dark alleys and the corners. irankly. the light and the breadth and the magnificence of the constitutional process is just too much for this legislation. and that is why it is  being used.
 to select the appropriate agency. and for the two agencies. sba and the pilot designee. to work out an agreement and establish the necessary procedures. accordingly. i have proposed an extention of the program until march 31. 1983. this will give the new leadership a full year to develop. a track record so that congress can make a final determination as to whether the pilot authority is a workable vehicle to hell) achieve the goal of miity business development.. by mr. can (for himself and mr. laxalt):
madam president. more than 10 weeks have passed since some 12.000 air traffic stontrollers walked off their jobs and were summarily fired. if there is one thing these 10 weeks have taught us. it is this: the strike is exacting a far greater toll on the nation than was contemplated by patco. the professional air traffic controllers organization. or the president. yesterday. the federal aviation administration imposed strict new regulations on -private pilots and annced that commercial airline traffic will be further curtailed starting december 1. commercial flights had already been cut back by 25 percent. airline revenues are down as a result. every day. according to the department of commerce.. the air transport industry is losing $3 to $4 mlllion because of the strike. estimates by some industry representatives run to 10 times that much. comnmetial and private aircraft builders are also starting to get nicked badly. consumers are  faring much better. paradoxically. even though there are fewer flights. many airports are experiencing more delays. faa spokesmen disclosed yesterday that as of last thursday. delays of 30 minutes or more were up 600 percent. winter weather will soon be upon us. the question is: will our air traffic control system then have the capacity to operate without far greater inconventence. more importantly. will it be able to operate safely. james king. chairman of the national transportation safety board. has his doubts. "we may be at the edge of risk." ho said recently and i can understand why. when the controllers hit the bricks. they were complaining that 40hour workweeks were too long considering the kind of stress they had to put up with. k special government task force recently -found that some of the remaining controllers are  working *as many as 52 hours a week. fiftytwo hours of juggling airplanes on the ground and in the sky. aher heavy burden has fellen on their shoulders in the farm of rookie colleagues to train. and these veteran controllers will have even more work on their hands when the new generation of raw recruits this administration is soliciting hits the control towers. recognizing the present and potential strains on our air traffic control system. the federal aviation administration is acting to cut back the workload. but that will also mean more losses for the airlines and fewer flights for pasgengers to choose from. and so i repeat. during the past 10 weeks we have watched the tale unfold and the moral is this: a strike by air traffic controllers is zerosum game. the airlines. their passengers. the controllers. the country. everybody comnes up a loser. who is to blame. clearly. many mistakes were made before and just after te walkout. errors of judgment occurred on botib sides. it may be that the bulk of the bad calls were made by the union. i am  here to decide on that. to pass judgment or apportion guilt. i do want to say that i do  believe things should go on like this much longer. at a time when the government is trying to cut costs. it seems to me needlessly extravagant to spend more to train a new generation of controllers than it would cost to renegotiate a contract with those they would replace. then there is the additional expense of adding many of the 12.000 controllers to the already crowded unemployment rolls and causing countless layoffs in -associated industries. in these trying ecoic times. we can afford it. neither can we afford to subject the airline industry to this trial by firing when it was already experiencing the worst financial times in its history. the president has made his point. the air traffic controllers took an oath never to participate in a strike "while an employee of the government of the united states or any agency thereof." the question which the president must  address is whether the controllers. as violators iof federal law. should be subject to the maximum penalty for such action. i believe that. to the extent that the law requires. they should be fined and forced to pay those fines. ibut it is also true that 1 year ago t~o. day. on october 20. 1980. candidate ronald reagan made a pledge to patco president robert poli. he wrote in a letter seeking the unions support: you can rest assured (that) i will take whatever steps are necessary to provide our air traffic controllers with the most modern equipment available and to adjust staff levels and work days so that they are commensurate with achieving a maximum degree of pub11o safety. a promise does  go away with an election. that letter contained a promalsb  just to the controllers but to the american people. too. their safety was. and is. the bottom line. ody ks better than this president that leadership is a twosided coin. the ability to be firm is half the battle. effective leadership also demands the ability to forgive when circumstances call for it. surely. we need more divisions in this nation. i hope. therefore. that the administration will  let aher 10 weeks pass without taking the initiative and sending its negotiators back to the bargaining table. that is the place to put the pieces together and restore the authorityof the president. the dignity of the controllers. and the ecoics of a nation
am i also correct that the distinguished senator recognizes that there were five original contract authorities which traded in interstate segments pursuant to the 1973 federal aid highway act. that these auhorities are comprised of boston. mass.. washington. d.c.. philadelphia. pa.. portland. oreg.. and hartford. conn.. and that furthermore. they were guaranteed obligation of their tradeins until such authority was rescinded under public law 96131. transportation appropriations for 1980.
i shall be glad to do this: here it is february 10. we are starting down this road. obviously. we are  starting down a road we think is going to take longer than that which the senator from new mexico suggests. as i understand it. he is going to start down his road probably somewhere around the 20th of february or thereabouts. let us see who gets to the finish line first. i hope he does get there ahead of me. but i think in this instance. two arrows in a quiver are better than one.
. i urge my colleagues to give their hasty approval to this vital piece of legislation.e by mr. pressler (for himself and mr. danforth): 5. 2108. a bill to amend the railroad revitalization and regulatory reform act of 1976. to the committee on commerce. science. and transportation.
. i am very pleased to join my good friend from new york. senator damato. in introducing today. s. 2377. the mass transportation act of 1982. i commend the senator for taking the initiative to develop this important alternative to the administrations propos. als for mass transit. i join the senators efforts today. because i believe the concepts included in this measure more appropriately address the needs of an effective national mass transit system. iie administration has long advocated that many programs can be more efficiently run at the state level. however. their funding proposals and proposed elimination of operating assistance for mass transit ties the hands of the state. i have long recommended to- this body that the states should be given more flexibility to address their individual transportation needs. the mass transportation act pf 1982 recognizes the need for flexibility and for a strong federal commitment to mass transportation programs. specifically. the. bill authorizes $3.2 billion for 1983 and increases authorizations by 10 percent a year through 1986. the administrations funding for the same activities is $2.6 billion and eliminates all federal operating assistance by 1985. the two key components to this bill are the establishment of a capital and operating block grant program for bus and rail systems for urban and urban areas and increased flexibility for the states to target funds to their individual needs. i will address these two elements briefly. for urban areas over 200.000 the block grant program is authorized at $2.2 billion for 1983 with 65 percent going to bus systems and 35 percent to rail systems. for urban areas with populations under 200.000. 5 percent of the total authority for 1983 will be made available for capital and operating grants. states may use up to 50 percent of the grants or their 1982 umta operating assistance obligation for operating assistance. therefore. unlike the administrations proposal. states will still be eligible for operating assistance. in addition to the capital and operating assistance block grants. the mass transportation act continues funding of section 18 rural area transportation. the bill gives govers the authority to transfer funds between urban and urban programs or between urban and section 18 programs in consultation with. and approval from. local officials. the key to the administrations mass transportation proposal is the elimination of federal operating assistance by 1985. this bill. in providing operating assistance. places the responsibility on the states to determine their priorities and gives them the flexibility to meet those needs. the administrations proposed elimination of operating assistance fails to recognize that states and the public already contribute heavily financially to the operation of our mass transit systems. in my own state of connecticut. commuter rail fares have increased 50 peicent in 2 years. while federal operating assistance has remained constant. curtailment of this assistance will result in a loss of nearly $16 million which either the state. or the farebox. will have to provide. users of a transportation system will only absorb a certain increase before they turn to other modes. if they are able. again. the elderly and poor of this nation. who are already being affected by numerous budget reductions. will be denied by cost increases or reductions in service a means of mobility. what should be of budgetary concern to the administration. is the effect of commuters returning to their automobiles. in connecticut. the major urban centers and urban areas connected by interstate 95. a rapidly deteriorating. highly congested thruway. the stretch between new haven and new york city can physically absorb any more traffic. the administrations own highway policy stresses the need to address this deterioration. the creation of the 4 r program. with rehabilitation funds. demonstrates the urgency of this problem. any movement from transit systems back to the automobile can only frustrate efforts by highway policy people to curtail deterioration. in establishing the first federal transit assistance program in 1964. congress wrote. "* * that the welfare and vitality of urban areas and the effectiveness of housing. urban renewal. highway. and othei federally aided programs are being jeopardized by the deterioration and inadequate provision of urban transportation facilities and services. the intensification of traffic congestion and the lack of coordinated transportation and other development planning on a comprehensive and continuing basis. and that federal financial assistance for the development of efficient and coordinated mass transportation system is essential to the solution of these urban problems." today. we have a workable partnership between the public and private sector in transportation policy. given adequate funding and the flexibility to plan accordingly. i believe this nation can continue to develop and operate an efficient mass transportation system. the mobility of a nation is the key to its ecoic vitality. such mobility can be achieved through a policy of dollars and cents. but rather a recognition by policymakers that the passenger and commercial transportation needs of this nation are many and diverse. 8. 2377 can provide us with the tools to maintain an effective transportation system.* by mr. simpson (by request):
. i might remind the distinguished senator from rhode island that whenever we put government on automatic pilot. we risk making it totally unresponsive to changed _circumstances. for years. for example. the great need of much of the united states. certainly the crowded theast. was for highways. in terms of our transportation needs. so the highway trust fund was set up and put beyond the reach of congress to make its annual appropriations. so we put it on automatic pilot. all the money was going to be used to build highways. what do you think happened in rhode island and connecticut. in the theast. we have the greatest highway systems in the world and we have absolutely hing elsebus systems. mass transit systems. and yet the money flows in there and every time you want to solve a transportation problem you just build aher highway. for years. many of us werehere advocating that that trust fund be allocated in a way that had some relation to the particular needs of a political subdivision. but the automatic pilot has been turned on. in rhode island and connecticut we need bus systems. we need rail systems. we need mass transit systems. but still we get this mechanism in place. it is like the sorcerers apprentice. it goes on and never stopshighways. highways. highways. so any automatic mechanisnis illserves the needs of any particular generation. my second .question to my friend from rhode island is this: many supporters of the bill argue that the failure of the senate to adopt this resolution will lead to a state constitutional convention which may debate constitutional issues other than that which is before us today. i ask the senator whether he thinks avoidance of such a convention ought to be an issue in this debate.
these 209 bridges. of. which 64 are in my state of connecticut. are distinguished by the fact that neither amtrak  the states accept the responsibility for their upkeep and maintenance. because the ownership of these bridges can be determined from the legislation or deeds which provided for amtraks acquiring the rightofway of the theast corridor. the result has been. therefore. that rehabilitation needs are addressed as emergencies occur. with repair costs being subject to lengthy battles among the states. amtrak. and local communities. consequently. these bridges have fallen into a severe state of disrepair. would you agree that these bridges constitute a potentially serious hazard to the affected communities and to rail passengers who utilize theast corridor passenger service.
that the condition of these bridges in the context of the unresolved jurisdictional question do pose potentially serious hazards to affected local communities and to rail passengers who utilize theast rail service on the theast corridor.
at this time. more than 600 bridges and viaducts cross over amtraks rail lines between boston and washington. d.c. i and my colleague from connecticut are very concerned with 209 of these bridges. which have come to be called the orphan bridges. these 209 bridges. of which 64 are in my state of connecticut. are distinguished by the fact that neither amtrak  the states accept the responsibility for their upkeep and maintenance. because the ownership of these bridges can be determined from the legislation or deeds which provided for amtrak to take over the rightofway of the theast corridor. consequently. these bridges have fallen into a severe state of disrepair and constitute major safety hazards to the affected communities and to rail passengers. who utilize theast rail corridor service. although the states do  claim responsibility for the upkeep of these bridges. they do include the bridges in their bridge inventories upon which state apportionments for federal bridge assistance are calculated. to date. the states have been reluctant to use their limited bridge funds for the repair -f these bridges. amtrak. too. has a very limited capital budget. the result has been. therefore. that bridge problems are addressed on an emergency basis. with repair costs usually being the subject of lengthy battles among states. amtrak. and local communities. the bill before us today establishes a new strong federal commitment to bridge rehabilitation and replacement. under the surface transportation act of 1982. $1.7 billion is authorized for fiscal years 1983 and 1984. $1.8 billion for fiscal year 1985. and $2 billion for fiscal years 1986 and 1987. mr. stafford. do you agree that the states. in expending their apportioned bridge funds. should give strong consideration to these bridges which overpass the theast corridor improvement project and which a state or amtrak identify as constituting a potential danger to. motorists. pedestrians. or rail operations.
since the aforementioned bridges are eligible for bridge rehabilitation and replacement funds. would the chairman of the environment and public works committee agree that these bridges pose a serious safety problem and that states. in expending funds apportioned under section 203(a)(7) for replacement or rehabilitation of eligible bridges. should give strong consideration to highway bridges which overpass the theast corridor improvement project and which a state or amtrak identifies as constituting a potential danger to motorists. pedestrians. or rail operations.
i understand your interest in consolidating highway programs and controlling highway expeditures. however. since authorizing legislation exists to transfer the function of the territorial highways program to the department of interior. and since it is crucial to the fragile ecoies of the territories to have a continuing highways program. would you agree that it is appropriate to include the territories in this bill.
. insuring a smooth transition of conrails commuter activ. ities to the respective commuter agencies is vitally important to my state of connecticut. 40.000 commuters daily rely on commuter rail service on the new haven line between new haven. conn.. and new york city. this translates into an annual ridership of 23 millionmore than the entire amtrak systeml although disruption in service is anticipated during the transition process. tlis continual shifting of rail service in this country between the private and public sector can help but create uncertainty in the minds of commuters. for the last two decades connecticut commuters have seen commuter service vacillate between penn central. conrail. and  the authorities themselves. conndot commissioner wiiham bums. in testimony before the rouse energy and commerce committee. summarized the instability of commuter rail operations in saying* during the late 1960s. the connecticut department of transportation worked very closely with the metropolitan transportation authority (mta) to develop a plan to save the commuter rail service on the new haven. harlem. and hudson linee. the service agreement was developed with the trustees of the penn central corporation to assure the viability of the service for the long term.  only was the rightofway in connecticut leased by the department for 60 years. but a service agreement was developed which was renewable each five years for the 60 year term. this assured the stability of this vital commuter service in the long term. when the penn central properties were merged with other theastern railroads to form conrail in 1976. a smooth transition occurred because the railroads were being merged. today we see that organization being torn apart requiring new relationships to be developed. establishing new relationships does  happen overnight. conndot and mta have chosen to take over this service. but must complete labor negotiations. administrative transitions. ahd implementjg operations. like computer systems by january 1. 1983. all of this is supposed to happen on top of daily frustrations which commuters in connecticut and new york currently experience: equipment that does  always work. an antiquated generating power source. and other uncertainties thpt prevail in the commuter rail business. therefore i will  accept any additional uncertainty placed on the backs of the commuters of my state. i hope this transfer of operations will be the beginning of dependable rail service provided by a stable authority. since congress and the federal government are responsible for initiating this transfer of commuter rails obligations. the congress and the federal government are responsible for providing adequate funding to cover the costs of the transition. therefore. i urge my colleagues to approve this essential authority for commuter rail transition costs. and i thank my colleagues on the commerce committee for addressing this important issue.
. this bill would achieve two desirable courses of actionthe resumption of commuter rail service for the states of connecticut and new york and the resolution of a very difficult issue. which the unions and commuter authorities seem unable to reach agreement on. i believe the people of connecticut and new york have suffered long egh. it is my intention to hold hearings on this matter as soon as possible. i urge my colleagues to join me in resolving this difficult impasse.e
 on april 5. since the veto. however. at the urging of the majority leader. extensive discussions have taken place between congress. and the administralion over this legislation. as a result of those..discussions. the state of connecticut has agreed to increase its contribution to the settlement by pledging $200.000 worth of road construction on the reservation. this road work would have been the responsibility of the bureau of indian affairs upon passage of the settlement. the select committee on indian affairs has agreed to hold hearings on this measure to provide the administration with the opportunity to testify on several points in the bill which are of particular interest to the bureau of indian affairs. it is our understanding that this action will satisfy the concerns of the administration and that the settlement continues to meet the approval of the state. the tribe. and the connecticut delegation. i would like toexpress my gratitude to senator bakr and his staff for their continuing assistance in our efforts to reach a settlement for the mashantucket pequot tribe and the affected property owners in ledyard. conn.o
. i thank my distinguished colleague. senator andrews. and my distinguished colleague. senator chiles. for their consideration and implementation of the amendment which. in effect. provides moneys for the state of connecticut for the repair or replacement of the mianus bridge. the amendment provides money for the towns of port chester. n.y.. and greewich. conn.. for the burdens which the recent disaster has placed upon both their local roads and law enforcement agencies. this particular situation. which resulted in several deaths. is  resulting in a monumental traffic mess which is only going to be resolved by complete cooperation among the local and state governments and the federal government. what this amendment provides will go a long way toward putting 195. the length of the eastern seaboard. i might add. back into shape. i thank the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee for taking into consideration these very special circumstances as they apply to this disaster. i hope that we could get on with the business of putting 195 back in order. at least that section of it which goes through the state of connecticut.
. on august 2. the senate voted overwhelmingly to approve h.r. 1646. the railroad retirement solvency act of 1983. since i was necessarily absent. i was unable to join my colleagues in supporting this vital piece of legislation. the passage of this measure was critical in averting a drastic reduction in benefits to the 1 million railroad retirees in this nation. 8.000 of whom reside in connecticut. this emergency legislation was necessitated by a serious shortfall in the railroad retirement account and the insolvency of the railroad unemployment insurance account. had the congress failed to enact legislation to shore up the financial integrity of these two accounts. current railroad retirement beneficiaries would have experienced a 40percent reduction in tier 2 benefits on october 1. the bill which was approved by both houses in less than 24 hours is the result of negotiations between rail labor. management. and the administration over the last 6 months.  unlike the social security legislation which the congress approved earlier this year. h.r. 1646.produces solvency in the railroad retirement system and avoids drastic benefit reductions through a series of tax increases on labor and management. slower benefit growth. and general funds transfers. the bill also provides for repayment of nearly $1.8 billion to the windfall benefit account. under the circumstances. h.r. 1646 represents the only game in town to assure that rail retirees do  suffer a loss of benefits this year. however. i do have some deep reservations about the impact of this package on current retirees. small and regional carriers. and the commuter rail authorities in the theast. with respect to current beneficiaries. i am troubled by the castofliving adjustment offset. under which tier 2 benefits will be offset by tier 1 colas dollar for dollar by up to 5 percent. on january 1. 1984. the social security costofliving increase of 3.5 percent for tier 1 will be deducted from tier 2 benefits. the other 1.5 percent could be taken out of tier 2 benefits in 1985. while this action was part of the package. i am deeply concerned about the impact of this change. retirees rely on a fixed income and have little financial recourse available to them to protect against inflation. therefore. i commend the senator from pennsylvania.
 on april 5. with the assistance of the majority leader. extensive negotiations were entered into between congress and the administration in order to reach an acceptable resolution of the pequot land claim. the bill under consideration today would settle this claim to 800 acres of land in eastern connecticut. it would authorize the appropriation of $900.000 for the purchase of the land and extend federal recognition to the pequots as part of the settlement. it would also credit the state of connecticut with a contribution of $450.000 based on the provision of past services to the tribe. a contribution of 20 acres of land. and extensive road work on the reservation by the connecticut department of transportation. this latter provision represents a substantial increase in the states contribution. which meets one of the objections the administration had to the original bill. in addition to this increase in the states contribution to the settlement. the select committee on indian affairs held a hearing on the bill to give the administration the opportunity to testify on several aspects of the legislation which were of particular interest to the bureau of indian affairs. i understand that the administration  supports the bill. and i would also like to point out that s. 1499 has been. and continues to be. supported by the entire connecticut delegation. the mashantucket pequot tribe. the affected property owners. and the connecticut state government. i thank senator baker and his staff for their assistance in reaching this agreement. i also extend my sincere thanks to senator andrews and the select committee on indian affairs for helping with the negotiations and conducting a second set of hearings on this bill. it is my hope that my colleagues will assist the state of connecticut in a final resolution of this land claim by supporting s. 1499. the hill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. was read the third time. and passed. as follows: s. 1499 be it enacted by the senate and house of rep~resentatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "mashantucket pequot indian claims settlement act".
i thank the senator from pennsylvania for bringing this to our attention. the railroad retirement board has informed me that it is interested in conducting such a study and that it will incur extra cost. therefore. the committee intends that this study be carried out.
. i support the amendment offered by senator rudman to h.r. 3222. a bill to make appropriations for the departments of state. justice. commerce. and related agencies for the f iscal year ending september 30. 1984. my particular interest with this amendment is the earmarking of $200.000 to the national oceanic and atmospheric. administration for the purpose of advancing undersea research capabilities. this increase in funding would specifically benefit as undersea research program operating in the caribbean. since 1978. a has maintained an ongoing science program using the undersea habitat hydrolab. off the coast of st. croix. u.s. virgin islands. this facility makes use of a unique diving technique kn as saturation diving. an extremely valuable technique for the marine scientist. this type of diving literally allows the marine scientist- to live and work on the ocean floor. the ongoing research conducted by scientists using hydrolab would be impossibje to conduct using more conventional research .techniques. although a has done a commendable job in maintaininig an excellent science program using hydrolab. there are a number of shortcomings inherent in the system. a relatively shallow operating depth and lack of mobility are the two major drawbacks. what is needed is a system that is mobile and has a greater depth capability. such a system. the aegir. exists but is currently ierable. the $200.000 to be made available would enable a to transport this system and associated support equipment from hawaii to the ongoing program in st. croix. providing this additional funding should  be viewed as the final step but rather as the vital next step in supporting an inative approach to ocean research. to realize the tremendous potential of putting man on the ocean floor to conduct research. we need only look at
. we are minutes away from concluding the very important work that has been done by the subcommittee. the committee. and the senate as a whole on this appropriations bill. i do  think there is a senator in this chamber the bill has  touched upon. indeed that we have  tried to accommodate. there are probably more positive features in this legislation than anything we have discussed for a long time. i hope that literally within a matter of a few minutes we can get to final passage. i urge. if anybody does have an amendment. please be prepared to offer it. i also implore my colleagues  to try to use this as a vehicle for some other objective. again. this is a request. but in terms of education. health. science. and the many who need our special care. this is their billthe powerless. if you will. or those to whbm the future truly belongs. i hope we can enact. it in a short period of tine
. this bill would achieve two desirable courses of actionthe resumption of commuter rail service for the states of connecticut and new york and the resolution of a very difficult issue. which the unions and commuter authorities seem unable to reach agreement on. i believe the people of connecticut and new york have suffered long egh. it is my intention to hold hearings on this matter as soon as possible. i urge my colleagues to join me in resolving this difficult impasse.e
 on april 5. since the veto. however. at the urging of the majority leader. extensive discussions have taken place between congress. and the administralion over this legislation. as a result of those..discussions. the state of connecticut has agreed to increase its contribution to the settlement by pledging $200.000 worth of road construction on the reservation. this road work would have been the responsibility of the bureau of indian affairs upon passage of the settlement. the select committee on indian affairs has agreed to hold hearings on this measure to provide the administration with the opportunity to testify on several points in the bill which are of particular interest to the bureau of indian affairs. it is our understanding that this action will satisfy the concerns of the administration and that the settlement continues to meet the approval of the state. the tribe. and the connecticut delegation. i would like toexpress my gratitude to senator bakr and his staff for their continuing assistance in our efforts to reach a settlement for the mashantucket pequot tribe and the affected property owners in ledyard. conn.o
. i thank my distinguished colleague. senator andrews. and my distinguished colleague. senator chiles. for their consideration and implementation of the amendment which. in effect. provides moneys for the state of connecticut for the repair or replacement of the mianus bridge. the amendment provides money for the towns of port chester. n.y.. and greewich. conn.. for the burdens which the recent disaster has placed upon both their local roads and law enforcement agencies. this particular situation. which resulted in several deaths. is  resulting in a monumental traffic mess which is only going to be resolved by complete cooperation among the local and state governments and the federal government. what this amendment provides will go a long way toward putting 195. the length of the eastern seaboard. i might add. back into shape. i thank the ranking member and the chairman of the subcommittee for taking into consideration these very special circumstances as they apply to this disaster. i hope that we could get on with the business of putting 195 back in order. at least that section of it which goes through the state of connecticut.
. on august 2. the senate voted overwhelmingly to approve h.r. 1646. the railroad retirement solvency act of 1983. since i was necessarily absent. i was unable to join my colleagues in supporting this vital piece of legislation. the passage of this measure was critical in averting a drastic reduction in benefits to the 1 million railroad retirees in this nation. 8.000 of whom reside in connecticut. this emergency legislation was necessitated by a serious shortfall in the railroad retirement account and the insolvency of the railroad unemployment insurance account. had the congress failed to enact legislation to shore up the financial integrity of these two accounts. current railroad retirement beneficiaries would have experienced a 40percent reduction in tier 2 benefits on october 1. the bill which was approved by both houses in less than 24 hours is the result of negotiations between rail labor. management. and the administration over the last 6 months.  unlike the social security legislation which the congress approved earlier this year. h.r. 1646.produces solvency in the railroad retirement system and avoids drastic benefit reductions through a series of tax increases on labor and management. slower benefit growth. and general funds transfers. the bill also provides for repayment of nearly $1.8 billion to the windfall benefit account. under the circumstances. h.r. 1646 represents the only game in town to assure that rail retirees do  suffer a loss of benefits this year. however. i do have some deep reservations about the impact of this package on current retirees. small and regional carriers. and the commuter rail authorities in the theast. with respect to current beneficiaries. i am troubled by the castofliving adjustment offset. under which tier 2 benefits will be offset by tier 1 colas dollar for dollar by up to 5 percent. on january 1. 1984. the social security costofliving increase of 3.5 percent for tier 1 will be deducted from tier 2 benefits. the other 1.5 percent could be taken out of tier 2 benefits in 1985. while this action was part of the package. i am deeply concerned about the impact of this change. retirees rely on a fixed income and have little financial recourse available to them to protect against inflation. therefore. i commend the senator from pennsylvania.
 on april 5. with the assistance of the majority leader. extensive negotiations were entered into between congress and the administration in order to reach an acceptable resolution of the pequot land claim. the bill under consideration today would settle this claim to 800 acres of land in eastern connecticut. it would authorize the appropriation of $900.000 for the purchase of the land and extend federal recognition to the pequots as part of the settlement. it would also credit the state of connecticut with a contribution of $450.000 based on the provision of past services to the tribe. a contribution of 20 acres of land. and extensive road work on the reservation by the connecticut department of transportation. this latter provision represents a substantial increase in the states contribution. which meets one of the objections the administration had to the original bill. in addition to this increase in the states contribution to the settlement. the select committee on indian affairs held a hearing on the bill to give the administration the opportunity to testify on several aspects of the legislation which were of particular interest to the bureau of indian affairs. i understand that the administration  supports the bill. and i would also like to point out that s. 1499 has been. and continues to be. supported by the entire connecticut delegation. the mashantucket pequot tribe. the affected property owners. and the connecticut state government. i thank senator baker and his staff for their assistance in reaching this agreement. i also extend my sincere thanks to senator andrews and the select committee on indian affairs for helping with the negotiations and conducting a second set of hearings on this bill. it is my hope that my colleagues will assist the state of connecticut in a final resolution of this land claim by supporting s. 1499. the hill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. was read the third time. and passed. as follows: s. 1499 be it enacted by the senate and house of rep~resentatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "mashantucket pequot indian claims settlement act".
i thank the senator from pennsylvania for bringing this to our attention. the railroad retirement board has informed me that it is interested in conducting such a study and that it will incur extra cost. therefore. the committee intends that this study be carried out.
. i support the amendment offered by senator rudman to h.r. 3222. a bill to make appropriations for the departments of state. justice. commerce. and related agencies for the f iscal year ending september 30. 1984. my particular interest with this amendment is the earmarking of $200.000 to the national oceanic and atmospheric. administration for the purpose of advancing undersea research capabilities. this increase in funding would specifically benefit as undersea research program operating in the caribbean. since 1978. a has maintained an ongoing science program using the undersea habitat hydrolab. off the coast of st. croix. u.s. virgin islands. this facility makes use of a unique diving technique kn as saturation diving. an extremely valuable technique for the marine scientist. this type of diving literally allows the marine scientist- to live and work on the ocean floor. the ongoing research conducted by scientists using hydrolab would be impossibje to conduct using more conventional research .techniques. although a has done a commendable job in maintaininig an excellent science program using hydrolab. there are a number of shortcomings inherent in the system. a relatively shallow operating depth and lack of mobility are the two major drawbacks. what is needed is a system that is mobile and has a greater depth capability. such a system. the aegir. exists but is currently ierable. the $200.000 to be made available would enable a to transport this system and associated support equipment from hawaii to the ongoing program in st. croix. providing this additional funding should  be viewed as the final step but rather as the vital next step in supporting an inative approach to ocean research. to realize the tremendous potential of putting man on the ocean floor to conduct research. we need only look at
. we are minutes away from concluding the very important work that has been done by the subcommittee. the committee. and the senate as a whole on this appropriations bill. i do  think there is a senator in this chamber the bill has  touched upon. indeed that we have  tried to accommodate. there are probably more positive features in this legislation than anything we have discussed for a long time. i hope that literally within a matter of a few minutes we can get to final passage. i urge. if anybody does have an amendment. please be prepared to offer it. i also implore my colleagues  to try to use this as a vehicle for some other objective. again. this is a request. but in terms of education. health. science. and the many who need our special care. this is their billthe powerless. if you will. or those to whbm the future truly belongs. i hope we can enact. it in a short period of tine
. the federal government subsidizes all modes of transportation in this country. there are hidden and indirect subsidies for automobile drivers. the highway trust fund does  cover all costs related to automobile travel. such as air pollution. parking. law enforcement. emergency repairs. and others. the revenues from airline tickets certainly do  cover the cost of air travel. when you include the general funds used for operations and the tax expenditures lost due to business expense writeoffs. the federal subsidy to air travelers is approximately $40$5 more per person than the subsidy for amtrak. i do  believe. as busy and as congested as air traffic is today. that the airports and airlines can accommodate all of the amtrak riders who would be forced to fly rather than take the train. if amtrak shoulk cease to exist. this is particularly true in the theast corridor where approximately 17.500 passengers ride amtrak between new york and washington. dc. everyday. without amtrak. former rail passengers who do  choose to fly or who can afford to fly will be forced to use automobiles as an alternative. i can understand. given the energy crisis this country faced in the 1970s. why we would discourage the operation and development of an energy efficient rail service. and. instead. force people to travel by car or airplane. the elimination of federal funds for amtrak can only result in a transportation and energy disaster. it is in our national interest to develop and maintain effective. energy efficient alternatives to automobile and air travel. it is also in our national interest to maintain rail service which can provide immediate mobilization of people and supplies. amtrak currently works with the federal emergency management administration [fema) and the army logistics staff at the pentagon to respond quickly and efficiently should amtrak be called on to mobilize its resources. in the past. i have argued for completely nationalizing rail passenger service. while i am  here. today. to argue for nationalizing amtrak. i am here to urge my colleagues to support the federal funding essential for amtrak to continue providing national rail passenger service. when amtrak was created by the rail passenger service act of 1970. congress declared: that rail passenger service can help to end the congestion on our highways and the overcrowding of airways and airports. that the traveler in america should to the maximum extent feasible have freedom to choose the mode of travel most convenient to his needs. that to achieve these goals requires the designation of a basic national rail passenger system and the establishment of a rail passenger corporation for the pub pose of providing modern. efficient. intercity rail passenger service. (and) that federal financial assistance as well as investment capital from the private sector of the ecoy is needed for this purpose... i urge my colleagues to support this amendment so that the national rail passenger service congress envisioned in 1970 will  disappear in 1986. amtrak
. during the long days of deliberation on the budget. the process at times seemed reduced to a mathmatical problem to be solved. in trying to deal with a complex issue. our focus often narrows to the point where we lose sight of the whole picture. today i want to share with my colleagues an eloquent reminder of what our job here is all about. david berke. a young man from connecticut. wrote some poems expressing his concern for the future. he described very accurately the kind of decisions we are making here in congressdecisions on the quality of life for our children and their children. david was killed in an automobile accident  long ago. we are fortunate to have his thoughts with us as we go about our job. the poems follow:
. during the long days of deliberation on the budget. the process of times seemed reduced to a mathematical problem to be solved. in trying to deal with a complex issue. our focus often narrows to the point where we lose sight of the whole picture. today i want to share with my colleagues an eloquent reminder of what our job here is all about. david berke. a young man from connecticut. wrote some poems expressing his concern for the future. he described very accurately the kind of decisions we are making here in congressdecisions on the quality of life for our children and their children. david was killed in an automobile accident  long ago. we are fortunate to have his thoughts with us as we go about our job. the poems follow:
. i am  pleased with the amtrak appropriation. i am  plhased with the mass transit appropriation. i am  pleased with the coast guard appropriatioi. but i think we all understood we had to take some cuts and indeed only the totally unnecessary. unjustifiable was to be eliminated. i do  k how many shots there are in this process. it used to be that we would have one or two.  we have budget committee deliberations. allocations within the appropriations committee. then we come to the floor and everybody targets it again and. i might add. all this preceded by agreements with the administration supposedly on these various items. i would suggest that in this particular instance. e of us are pleased by the decisions of this appropriations subcommittee. therefore. probably we have all been best served under the ecoic circumstances of this time. i urge defeat of the symms amendment. which totally distorts the kassebaum amendment. and the kassebaum amendment which distorts the work of the subcommittee on appropriations.
. i ask unanimous consent. and this will  affect the outcome of the vote. that the senator from virginia and myself be permitted to be recorded on the last vote. we were waiting for a subway for 5 minutes from the hart building. we were in the building. we were unable to be here because there was transportation. i did  want to violate the rules of this body. and if i -were out of the buildingdoes the same hold true.
. today we have before us the opportunity to approve a sale which will generate new rail traffic and provide conrail with a longterm partner committed to the business of railroading. this sale will also increase rail competition in the theast by expanding guilford transportation industries. inc. and enhancing the pittsburgh and lake erie railroad co. i urge my colleagues to support s. 638 and the sale of conrail to the fqlk southern corp.
to my good friend. the senator from maryland. i say this nation is  well served when congress goes on automatic pilot. we have plenty of experience with this business of replacing decisionmakers by ecoic statistics. for years. the great transportation need in much of the united states. especially in the theast. was for highways. and so. the highway trust fund was set up and put beyond the reach of congress and the appropriations process. and so. on automatic pilot. this money was to be used for highways and highways alone. . in the theast. we have the greatest highway system in the world and we are far behind in the area of providing mass transit. once the automatic pilot was turned on. the needs of connecticut. the needs of the theast over time meant hing. my understanding is that state has passed a call for a constitutional convention in more than 2 years. is it the impression of the senator from maryland that there is a growing sentiment in the states and their legislatures that a constitutional convention is a dangerous and unnecessary way to achieve a balanced budget.
i would like to discuss with the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee and with my colleague. mr. dodd. a concern that involves a company and over 400 employees in connecticut. as my colleagues are aware. the house has considered and passed h.r. 3129. the surface transportation and uniform relocation assistance act of 1986. which reauthorizes federal highway and urban mass transit programs. section 131 of the house bill would require manufacturers of buses and subway cars being funded by urban mass transit grants to increase the percentage of domestic materials from the present 50percent standard to 85 percent. saabscania of orange. ct. like many companies throughout the nation would be adversely affected by this provision.
. while amtraks funding levels have declined in the past 6 years. its revenuetocost ratio has increased from 48 percent in 1981 to 62 percent in 1986. with continued funding. amtrak will be able to cover an increasing percentage of its total costs. without continued funding. the railroad will most likely fall into bankruptcy. congress has kept amtrak in business in the past and must continue to do so . this country relies on decent passenger service and the private sector proved in the 1960s that it could  handle this responsibility. because the private sector defaulted on passenger service. it is unwise to take this transportation service out of the hands of the government. i have always maintained that  only must congress continue to subsidize amtrak. it must also provide the needed funding for capitol improvements. congress has been unwilling to do this in the past. and as a result. amtrak has been constantly treading water. this is an issue that needs to be addressed in the 100th congress and  the issue of selling amtrak.*
. i rise today to join my distinguished colleague. senator kerry. in supporting the "traffic safety for handicapped individuals act." this bill addresses a problem faced by the majority of our nations handicapped citizens whose mobility is impaired due to the lack of a uniform system of state reciprocity in hoing handicapped parking permits. currently. there exists a wide variety of identifying signs used to designate parking spaces for handicapped persons which has impeded the use of these special parking spaces for persons from outside jurisdictions. an easily recognizable and consistent symbol for identifying vehicles is needed to ensure reciprocity in hoing handicapped parking permits from state to state. law enforcement officials. unaware of symbols used to identify vehicles entitled to occupy handicapped parking spaces. may unintentionally issue parking citations to handicapped individuals who travel from outside jurisdictions. for most travelers the major factor limiting travel is cost. but for a percentage of americans freedom to travel is limited by conflicting state laws. mobility impaired citizens have been denied what virtually every american assumes to be a natural birthrightmobility. disabled individuals in this country must  be denied special parking privileges to ensure their personal mobility from state to state just because reciprocity agreements hoing handicapped parking permits are inconsistent and uncoordinated in designation and enforcement throughout the country. clearly. disability does  end when crossing state lines. the bill being introduced today will require all states to ho both the international symbol of access and other states identification methods when persons properly utilizing designated handicapped parking spaces display such signs. these identification methods whether displayed on a license plate or window placard will clear up the wide variation among state laws which have resulted in controversy. confusion. and frustration on a national scale. should states  reciprocate and recognize the international symbol of access and other states methods of vehicle identification. the secretary of transportation will have the discretion to disapprove a states safety plan when  in compliance with reciprocal agreements on national uniform provisions for handicapped parking. our nations handicapped individuals deserve every avenue of access available if they are to fully exercise their rights in our society. clearly. accessibility should  be denied to handicapped persons on the basis of the state in which they reside. i urge my colleagues to join senator kerry and me in reaffirming our support for full citizenship of handicapped persons by cosponsoring the "traffic safety for handicapped individuals act of 1987."
. i am pleased to cosponsor with senator kerry an amendment to s. 853 to establish a uniform system of reciprocity for handicapped parking permits across all states. for over 6 million disabled americans. the freedom to travel between states is seriously impeded by the lack of such a system of reciprocity. currently. a variety of identifying signs are used to designate parking spaces for handicapped persons. which has impeded the use of these special parking spaces for persons traveling from outside jurisdictions. an easily recognizable and consistent symbol for identifying vehicles is needed to ensure reciprocity in hoing handicapped parking permits from state to state. therefore. the amendment being introduced today will require all states to adopt the "international symbol of access" as the only recognized symbol for the identification of vehicles operated by disabled individuals. this amendment further allows states up to 18 months to comply with the reciprocity requirement. and. should states fail to do so. requires the secretary of transportation to withhold 2 percent of states highway safety funding. further. the amendment prohibits the discriminatory practice of charging disabled individuals higher fees for licensing and vehicle registration than are charged to disabled individuals. mobility is something the majority of americans take for granted. but for the disabled citizens of this country. mobility is too often a struggle. we have a responsibility to those individuals to ensure that conflicting state laws do  create additional barriers to their mobility. i urge my colleagues to join us in removing yet aher barrier to the full integration of disabled individuals by supporting this amendment.
 and the congress. can or can do. that is the narrow issue which we have to decide. i hope that in that decision partisanship or philosophy enters inmerely simple. straightforward. common sense. and intelligence. time. my good friend from virginia. we have already gone quite a way down the road from the day that we all opened our newspaper and read there was going to be a new policy of sending some american assistance into thegulf. that has grown to a mighty armada. it is a mighty armada. and i have to say that it is my intention to press this matter. and press it hard. my colleagues may be thrown off center by some senseofthesenate resolution. maybe they will be. but then they have to take on their shoulders the burden that attaches. that is as a result of our avoidance or our selfimposed blindness to the law. we as much as any other adversary are responsible for the lives of our neighbors.
 should immediately take action to achieve numerical equivalence in diplomatic missions of the south african government and u.s. government. that approval of temporary u.s. visas requested by south africans should be granted on a casebycase basis only after consideration of the south african governments record of allowing south african citizensparticularly those who are members of antiapartheid organizationsto travel to the united states.
. i think the distinguished senator from new york has certainly placed on the record his astute observations as to this particular matter. e of which i dispute. but i think that it clearly is incumbent upon all of the officials of that area to work closely together. all of us k that the airport is of significance to residents of the state of new york and those residing in connecticut. frankly. i wish that the problems attendant to the airport could stop at the state line. but. as the distinguished senator from new york ks and as i k. when we land. we invariably come over connecticut. se goes into new york and goes into connecticut. all the new york towns that border the airport obviously are imapcted upon by any substantial change in the status of the airport. and the same holds true for towns in connecticut. we also k that the terminal facilities are entirely inadequate. there is question about that. it seems to me that this problem should be resolved by close consultation between the local government officials involved. which should include officials from new york and connecticut. that is where the matter should be resolved. let us hope it is resolved in a proper way. unilateral decisions will  suffice in this instance because the problems are  unilateral. the problems raised by any altered status of that airport clearly become connecticuts problems as much as new yorks. it was only the purpose of this senator. when we put in report language. to see to it that the appropriate local officials got together in the course of determining whatever the final outcome would be. that is still my desire. and let us hope that the language in this report will keep people on that course.
for the purpose of setting the record clear. there is intention in the course of this legislation to have this as an appropriation. merely to continue the program in an authorization status and then to come back at the appropriations process in aher vehicle at aher time.
. the following are key excerpts from "transportation": excerpts from "transportation" (by the worthington corp.) through most of history man has expended more effort getting things from one place to aher than he has on any other activity. as he has found more efficient means of transportation he has freed himself to put more energy into creating goods than into moving them. today there are exotic new kinds of vehicles that show promise. but hing on the horizon suggests that rails. ships. trucks. pipelines or barges will become obsolete. on the contrary. these traditional modes will continue to carry the great bulk of mans basic materials. they are today transforming themselves to do a more efficient job more cheaply. today in the united states. the nation with the most extensive transportation network. you can ship a ton of average freight on a barge or ocean vessel for less than onethird cent for each mile. if your ton is oil. a pipeline will carry it for the same price. if you want faster delivery for your ton. or want to reach more points of origin and destination. rail freight will cost only 11/4 cents for each mile. for shorter hauls and doortodoor delivery. trucks will carry your ton for about seven cents for each mile. if you are in a great hurry and your ton must go a long distance. you can ship it by air freight for 20 cents a mile. for contrast there is the animal transport still common in much of the world. india has ten million animals hauling about 100 million tons a year. the cost of hauling a ton by ox cart. horse. burro. camel. donkey or bullock is something like 50 or 60 cents per tonmile. thats egh to quadruple the price of many products.
. the amendment offered by the gentleman from oklahoma deserves the support of the house. it seeks to increase funds and make possible needed manpower for the coast guard reserve. the recommended funds provided by the appropriations committee are clearly inadequate for the selected reserve. especially in view of the fact that the house has approved a level of strength for the reserve which could  be achieved under the recommendation. the selected reserve is an integral arm of the coast guard. and a most valued and necessary one. it provides needed strength for emergency situations. as experience and testimony document. the proposed 10.000 strength in this appropriation would  make it possible for the coast guard to assure the fulfillment of its assignment under any and all circumstances. the strength which can be achieved under the terms of this amendment would. on the other hand. virtually attain the manpower figure which the coast guard commandant has stated is the minimal need to fulfill the mission assigned without impairment to the national security. the amendment deserves our support.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. a concurrent resolution which relates to the anncement of ember 23. 1966. by the bureau of public roads that there would be an immediate cutback of $1.1 billion in the federalaid highway program for the present fiscal year. the administrations decision to defer substantial highway construction expenditures has already been the subject of consideration in both houses of congress. the committees on public works of the house and the senate have completed joint hearings on the matter. and the distinguished senator from indiana [ of the senate committee on public works. kindly accepted a letter containing my views with respect to the legality of the administrations cutback order. this letter has been made a part of the record of the hearings held earlier this week. i ask unanimous consent that this letter apconclusion of my present remarks. the resolution which i submit today is by means intended to supersede the resolution already introduced by senator bayh. rather. i hope that it will be viewed as a complementary resolution directed to the legal reasons for rescission of the cutback order rather than simply to policy reasons for such rescission. i hope that these resolutions may be acted upon without delay so that there may be confusion on the part of the administration with respect to the nature of congress reaction to what is in effect an attempt by the executive branch to amend the federalaid highway program statutes without resort to the legislative branch.
. sir. in mentioning the matters which the committee considered to be personal rather than political. one of the matters pertained to the travel of mrs. dodd outside of the state of connecticut. or to washington. d.c. it certainly is conceivable that the wife of a u.s. senator might be invited to travel with him to attend a political function. say. in chicago. ill. and it certainly seems that this might be considered a political expenditure or a proper political expenditure rather than a personalpolitical expenditure. although. we are here concerned with senator doddand this is a most important matter before us at this timei am sure that the committee understands. and must have understood. that if we abide by the guidelines set by the committee we are establishing a precedent which the senate will be bound to follow in the future. are we going to follow all of the guidelines which the committee has set forth in its report and which the distinguished senior senator from utah has mentioned one by one. such as the country club expenses which were classified as personal rather than political. will the senate accept the guideline that the travelof the wife of a u.s. senator. to a state other than his own is personal rather than political. are we going to judge all of these matters as they have been outlined by the committee. certainly. this is a matter of grave concern to the senate. as well as to senator dodd.
. efficient transportation service is essential to the continued wellbeing of the country. effective transportation requires a variety of methods. we can give up any form of travel to which the nation has become accustomed without suffering serious dislocation in our personal and business lives. i urge that the recommendations and the bills proposed by the senator from connecticut receive speedy consideration by this body and by the congress as a whole..
. public transportation which is efficient. attractive. and ecoical is a problem which has increasingly demanded the best efforts and attention of urban planners. of all the various types of transportation available in this country. e has been the object of more criticism than our subways. boston. mass.. has the oldest subway system in the nation. in 1963. the trustees of the then mta awakened to the fact that their archaic. inefficient subway system would have to "modernize or perish." they chose to modernize. the result of their decision was recently described in an article. entitled "transit by design: it works." published in the new englander magazine. in the belief that the experiences of the new massachusetts bay transit authority may be of interest to others. i ask unanimous consent that the entire article be printed in the record.
i k that the distinguished senator from illis was  able to be present during the long remarks i made this morning. but i did treat this subject rather extensively. i pointed out that considerable assistance is being given both by the soviet bloc and by the communist chinese government to african nations. i further foundand this is something of grave importance to the u.s. governmentthat in most instances the african countries had first approached western nations. including the united states. for assistance. prior to approaching the soviet union. or the communist chinese. this was done by guinea. as i pointed out. after the french withdrew and took everything out of that country. president sekou tour6 came to the united states. and our government refused to give him assistance at that time because of our close ties to france. this was done in nigeria. when the nigerian government sought assistance from our country. i think we were correct in that instance. particularly in  providing additional weaponry. because we did  want to enlarge the conflict. again. in the case of tanzania and zambia. which are contemplating the building of a joint railroad plus the repair of a highway. tanzania came to the united states for assistance but the united states refused because it did  feel the railroad was feasible. it was then that tanzania went to the communist chinese. who are  building the railroad. and so it goes. there is some soviet influence and communist chinese influence in africa today. but i want to sum up by saying i do  feel that merely because a nation is the recipient of soviet assistance or chinese assistance that that necessarily means that nation is procommunist or antiwest or antiamerican. it is  true. i would refer to a statement by president kaunda of zambia who said that you just do  take on the enemies of a nation just because you are that nations friend.
i ask the senator from connecticut whether that language prohibits an individual engaged in a bona fide change of residence from one state to aher to transport any firearms which said individual has lawfully purchased or possesses in his former state of residence and if it is reasonable for said individual to purchase or possess such firearms in his new state of residence.
i think the place of permanent residence would be controlling. the senator would  have to register in each state to which he went. i understand many hunters travel around the country. i think that filing in new york state. if that were the permanent residence. would be controlling. the information would be sent to the place of residence and the place of residence would send the information to the information pool in the department of the treasury.
. on february 3. i sent a letter to secretary of transportation john a. volpe urging him to take prompt and vigorous measures to forestall the growing crisis in the nations air traffic system. in particular. the letter cites the personnel problems in the air traffic field. it calls upon the secretary first. to increase the number of air traffic controlcxv- 166part 2 lers. and. second. to upgrade standards and conditions of employment for air traffic controllers. i was joined in this effort by 21 of my colleagues: clinton
. on january 30 i was joined by 21 senators in a letter to secretary of transportation john a. volpe. in which we expressed our concern over the critical problems of air traffic control and cited the need for vigorous action to handle the growing volume of air traffic in a safer and more efficient manner. since sending this letter to the secretary. two bills have been introduced on this subject. one by the senior senator from indiana . and one by myself. i invite the attention of senators to the reply we have  received from secretary volpe. i am sure that the secretarys reply. which offers a detailed statement of the departments views and efforts to deal with the acute personel and operating problems of air traffic control. will supply much food for thought during the consideration of this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the secretarys letter and our letter of january 30 be printed in the record.
. new england is in a particularly exposed position when it comes to violent storms. during the summer and fall months of the year the coast is hit by vicious hurricanes. theast blizzards sweep up the coast once. twice. and sometimes more during the long winter months. science has found way to dissipate these storms before they reach the mainland. bringing with them a trail of death and ecoic disaster. but the commissioning of a weather ship. which would be permanently stationed in the waters between cape hatteras and nantucket island. could provide new england and the whole theastern section of the nation with vastly improved weather forecasting information. the data provided by such a ship would save many lives. and avert much ecoic loss when these storms strike. new englands last encounter with "killer" storms occurred last winter when s storms struck repeatedly and without warning. bringing loss of life and great ecoic destruction to new york and the new england area. estimates of property loss in this series of storms alone runs as high as $100 million. dr. robert n. white. the administrator of essa. and dr. george cressman. the director of the federal weather bureau. who have conferred with me about this problem. agreed that new england needs the protection which a weather ship would provide. they and a number of other prominent meteorologists share the conviction that the commissioning of a weather ship would enable the weather bureau to keep the theast section of the country far better informed about the approach of these storms. and their intensity. i ask unanimous consent that a letter to that effect from dr. white be printed at this point in the record.
i support the amendment offered today by the able senior senator from colorado which would have the practical effect of increasing the discretionary fund available to the secretary from 1 /2 percentapproved yesterday by a vote in this chamberto 71/2 percent. originally i supported the committees recommendation for a 15percent discretionary fund. and previously voted against both efforts to reduce this authorization. present lawsection 15 of the urban mass transportation act of 1964. as amendedlimits the allocation of federal funds that may be made available for projects in any one state to 121/2 percent of the aggregate authorization. at the present time. taking into account the additional authorization of $300 million made by the congress last year. the state limitation is $145.6 million. essentially this means that when federal grants to assist capital investment projects in any state total $145.6 million. further grants can be made in the state until the congress has provided additional funds.. some relief has been provided in the past. by the discretionary fund from which the secretary may approve additional allocations. but california has already drawn $8.7 million from this discretionary fund to afford temporary relief to that state. and two additional states. massachusetts and illis. have come close egh to the ceiling to require contemplation of delving into this fund in their behalf as well. to remedy this and similar situations and to assure continuity of federal support. the proposed urban mass transportation act of 1969 as reported from the committee would have allowed the secretary. to draw upon a new discretionary fund equal to 15 percent of the authorized program. this plan was adopted by the administration at the suggestion of the national league of cities. and it has been overwhelmingly endorsed by the govers and mayors conferences as well. program experience thus far supports the view that the proposed discretionary fund would permit substantially greater program flexibility without seriously reducing the effectiveness of the overall state limitation. under the expanded program of mass transportation approved by the committee. it is likely that applications to support larger and more costly fixed rail systems will be forthcoming from a number of cities. combined with other grants within the states. this may well push several states to the 121/2 percent maximum funding authorization. without the discretionary fund. some of the projects in each of these states will have to be either postponed or cut back. with the fund flexibility. even if several states need to use it. ample funds will remain. especially to cover all reasonable projects in smaller cities with railtype transit systems. the argument advanced yesterday by the distinguished senator from wisconsin that nearly all the money could go to a very few of the larger states. is true as a statistical exercise. but as a practical matter it is  likely to occur. in reality. secretary of transportation would make the mistake of supporting such an obvious inequity. this is  to deny that the larger allocations from the urban mass transportation funds will go to the states having the largest cities and the largest urban population. this is the very nature of the programit is an urban public transportation assistance program. but equally important to bear in mind is the fact that federal aid is available to all urban places. and by far the majority of projects to date have been made to cities of less than 1 million people. in view of the diverse needs exhibited by the various states. and in view of the tremendous ecoic and social impact which improved and efficient urban mass transportation can provide. i urge that some reasonable discretion be provided to our government to distribute these funds. i urge that the amendment of the senior senator from colorado be adopted.
mr. coox. mr. fannin. mr. griffin. mr. hansen. mr. hart. mr. mcgovern. mr. packwood. mr. percy. mr. prouty. mr. smith of illis. and mr. tower) submitted amendments. intended to be proposed by them. jointly. to the bill to provide for the expansion and improvement of the nations airport and airway system. for the imposition of airport and airway user charges. and for other purposes. which were ordered to lie on the table and to be printed. (the remarks of mr. gurney when he submitted the amendment appear later in the record under the appropriate heading.)
. within the past 10 days much of the eastern seaboard has been threatened with hing less than geographic isolation from the rest of the nation. this has resulted from the proposals of the penn central to end westbound railroad passenger service and to terminate through service between springfield. mass.. and new york city. at the very time we are beginning to question the validity of our past decisions to solve all transportation problems by simply building more and more roads. displacing homes by highways. paving over the countryside. this is  the moment to stand idly by and permit a major alternate form of transportation to atrophy and die. a perceptive article on this subject. written by columnist tom wicker. of the new york times. has been published in a number of newspapers. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. the penn central railroad is a vital link in the ecoy of the entire nation. this huge transportation network employs more than 94.000 people. it is a major source of revenue for innumerable cities and towns. it affects. directly and indirectly. the liquidity and progress of entire industries. the problems which have beset the penn central. therefore. should  be viewed simply as the misfortune of a single company struggling through a period of internal difficulties. and it should be a matter of great concern to all of us that in the opinion of many experts. other lines could face many of the same problems that have brought this great railroad to its knees. several proposals for assisting this line have already been offered. and it is likely that still more will be forthcoming. many of these proposals involve the use of federal funds to "bail out" the railroad. and put it back on its financial feet. i can support such proposals. for i believe that the problems of the transportation industry are serious egh to merit the development of a new and comprehensive policy toward this beleaguered industry. bailing out individual corporations is better than putting the proverbial bandaid on a deep and open wound. in addition. i am  convinced that the railroads have done egh to put their own house in order. if the penn central. and all who depend upon it. is to be kept from further decline a program of relief must be effected which is  simply a veiled patchwork of government loans and guarantees. a one way program of financial support is  the answer. such programs can do little but exacerbate the long term problems of this vital industry. while it is presented with the dilemma of the condition of the penn central. the industry is also offered the opportunity to make fundamental changes which can greatly enhance its future and restore the confidence that it  lacks. the railroads of this country must seize this opportunity and take upon themselves the role of working and thinking together in a spirit of responsibility and cooperation. they must demonstrate that the industry is committed to the maximum extent possible to using its own management and technical resources in order to solve its own problems. if the railroad industry. or any segment of it. is to come to congress asking for assistance. it must first show that it really wants to help itself. government assistance can and should only be made available on a businesslike basis. and  as charity. until such time as the industry can take some action to reinstate confidence in its own ability to deal with its problems. conditions will continue to deteriorate. if the industry can act prudently and decisively. it can emerge from the current peril both stronger and healthier. in so doing. it can mitigate the already telling effects of the penn centrals demise on the whole of american business.
yes. because the existing single reentry vehicle systems have  been improvedthe old polaris and the old minuteman i. so we would have to improve our single reentry vehicle systems if we were to enter into an agreement with the soviet union on a limitation on mirvs.
. once again the talented columnist. james j. kilpatrick. has entered an eloquent plea for a sensible transportation system. there are few if any among us who have . at some point over the last few weeks. struggled with the summer weekend traffic. whether it be in a short trip to the airport on a friday aftern. or a long trip to a function somewhere on the eastern seaboard. we have encountered the tremendous traffic jams which plague millions of our countrymen in their efforts to travel from home to work. or from work to a weekend of rest. the population of our country. particularly of the "megalopolis" which covers much of the eastern half of the nation. has increased emously. the ownership of private automobiles has increased as well. but what has  grown is the transportation system to accommodate all of -the people who want or need to travel.... mr. kilpatrick is performing a great public service in pursuing this problem through his widelyread column. i commend it to the attention of senators and ask unamous consent that it be printed in the record.
i yltd myself 15 minutes. . i ask unanimous consent to modify my amendment  799 to read as follows: sec. 206. the secretary of defense is authorized to initiate a program of research to develop at the earliest possible date. a single reentry vehicle system for the minuteman iii missile and a single reentry vehicle system for the poseidon missile. for purposes of this section "a single reentry vehicle system" is a system capable of only deploying a single reentry vehicle and its associated penetration aids. the funds to be expended in carrying out the provisions of this section shall be funds transferred from other projects by the secretary pursuant to his authority under existing law to transfer funds from one project to aher.
. i certainly thank my senior colleague for his comments. i could  agree more with his appraisal and his understanding of what this nations bicentennial celebration should be. it is quite accurate that the city of boston did make these proposals to the bicentennial commission. as my colleague will recall. there was much debate and discussion at that time. even within the commonwealth of massachusetts. there was a serious question about the site location. as the senator will recall. and a serious question about the emous federal contribution as well as the very large state and city contributions. these same questions have been raised with respect to the city of philadelphia. which is experiencing great difficulty in choosing a site. and certainly great difficulty in financing. we all want a very meaningful bicentennial. but we do  want a gigantic birthday party and. the morning after. awaken to find that we have made permanent and lasting contributions to the future of our nation. i am very hopeful that my colleagues in the senate and in the house of representatives. at the appropriate time. will join with senators cotton. pastore. and byrd of virginia. and one member of the house of representatives who at the time joined with me in voting. as a member of the commission. to expend $2 billion in the manner suggested would  be a prudent. or lasting way. in which we can pay tribute to our past. to our present. and to our future. so i am very grateful to the distinguished majority whip for joining in and giving us the benefit of his thinking on this very serious problem. because the commission is waiting for direction. and i think what we say on the floor of the senate will have an impact upon the commission. i want to spell out that this is criticism of the commission. of its dedicated staff. certainly of its very able chairman. or of the great majority of the commissions report and recommendations. if there is a need to change direction. to change course. we ought to do it . before we expend great sums of money. and find out later that we are  moving in the direction in which we should be traveling. and then have to reverse. we have. of course. experienced that in the past. every time i fly over new york city or enter laguardia airport and see those pavilions from the 1964 worlds fair. and think of the tremendous amount of money that went into it. it is really depressing to me. and i am certainly hopeful that we will  make the same mistake in 1976. the 200th anniversary of our nations birth.
. the american airline industry is at a crossroads. capital and labor costs. increased dollar outlay because of safety and pollution legislation. together with protean travel patterns are problems which here and  require immediate and undivided attention. commercial aviation is very susceptible to any general downturn in the ecoy. and when business and personal income are in a period of lagging growth. airline revenues are most vulnerable. for example. businessmen travel less frequently in order to reduce costs. vacationers choose places closer to home. postponing european or transcontinental trips. the result has been a period of sustained losses and great ecoic uncertainty for almost all our leading airlines. in turn. widespread layoffs and belt tightening of all kinds have been invoked to reduce losses and spur recovery. it is significant that one large carrier. eastern airlines. has tried a el approach to avoiding layoffs and raising needed revenues. it is a cooperative effort featuring encouraging teamwork between management and company employees. this airline. its pilots. and management merit considerable praise for their efforts. i urge other companies in other industries who are having similar problems to observe and emulate easterns esprit and teamwork. if our ecoy is to move out of this downturn the conventional aynes alone will  suffice. management and workers together must aggressively seek new ways to move the ecoy back toward sustained growth and recovery. labor and management need  and indeed. must  be constant adversaries. they should work together to anticipate and cure the problems that concern them both. i hope that this new chapter in labor management teamwork will be the beginning of a long volume to similar cooperation and good faith in american labormanagement relations. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
but they have  been which the cost exceeded the price. that in commercial aviation for 10 years if i discipline is very difficult. that is why if understand the senator from wisconsin. lockheed were to get into this field. it
. anyone of the many millions of people living near our nations major commercial airports can readily testify to the fact that the advances of the jet age of aviation have brought with them some very serious discomforts. constant bombardment by the intolerable se given off by arriving and departing aircraft has plagued many neighborhoods located close to our larger airports. almost every major commercial airport has encountered steadfast and vociferous citizen opposition to further expansion of airport runways. terminal buildings. and other facilities. here is airport se louder or the citizenairport confrontation more acrimonious than at logan international airport in boston. recent attempts by the massachusetts port authority. the operator of this facility. to gain approval of its application to build additional runways have met with bitter opposition from local citizens groups who find themselves already detrimentally affected by airport se. i have joined with many people in opposing the port authoritys application. because i felt that its objective of expanding the airports operating capacity could  be accomplished without dramatically increasing the already unbearable se that suffuses local neighborhoods. even though the port authority has withdrawn its application pending further study and the immediate battle over the expansion of the airport has somewhat subsided. jets still land and take off with the same frequency as before the expansion of the airport was enjoined. and sideline. landing. and takeoff se is felt in undiminished intensity in nearby neighborhoods. it is obvious that present aircraft se abatement procedures simply are  working. greater frequency of landings and takeoffs over water. as well as reductions in power by pilots following initial takeoff and climbing. have  provided the desired se reduction. such se reduction can be accomplished until existing jet fleets. the most egregious source of se. can be adequately soundproof. the purpose of the aircraft se abatement act of 1971 and of the airport and airway revenue amendments of 1971 is to evidence a national commitment to modification or replacement of existing jet aircraft so as to decrease the se levels of the existing jet fleet to the extent possible under existing techogy. the bill also accepts the principle that a significant portion of the cost of modifications and some portion of the cost of replacements should be borne by users of the aircraft through an increase in the excises laid upon tickets for domestic air travel. international air travel beginning in the united states. the transportation of property by air within the united states. and the use of jet aircraft. while the federal aviation administration is presently authorized to promulgate se standards for existing aircraft. the ecoic burden which would be placed on air carriers by stringent standards will pose a serious deterrent to the imposition of strict requirements. in these circumstances it is appropriate that existing law be changed to make se abatement modifications or replacement of existing aircraft ecoically feasible. to this end. this bill would increase the excises upon domestic air travel. international air travel beginning in the united states. the transportation of property by air within the united states. and the use of jet aircraft. the excise upon general aviation fuelgeneral aviation has  contributed significantly to increased se levels surrounding metropolitan airportsand the excise upon tires and tubeswhich does  produce substantial revenuewould  be increased. this bill will authorize expenditures from the trust fund created by the airport and airway development act of 1970 for the purpose of retrofitting the existing fleet with available equipment designed to decrease existing se levels. the expenditures for this purpose would take the form of grants of up to twothirds of the expenditures made by domestic air carriers for se abatement modifications. such modifications might include acoustic treatment of nacelles. -replacement of engines. installation of sonic inlets. or installation of devices to permit use of steeper glide paths. in addition. this bill would authorize grants to encourage the replacement of existing aircraft with less sy aircraft. such grants would  exceed twothirds of the unamortized cost of the aircraft retired. they could be made only if the aircraft replaced are retired before the end of their then remaining useful lives. and only if the probable use of the aircraft retired will significantly decrease the exposure of citizens to the se generated by the aircraft. in addition. any grant to encourage the replacement of an existing aircraft would  exceed the grant which would have been made to retrofit it. to implement the bill. the secretary of the department of transportation could require air carriers to file and comply with comprehensive plans with respect to the modification or replacement of the existing fleet so as to decrease present se levels. the bill also provides that any expenditure attributable to such a grant may  be deducted for federal tax purposes or increase the adjusted basis of property acquired with the grant. the faa presently has power to promulgate se standards under public law 90411 with respect to existing aircraft. it would be expected that in view of the grant program. the faa would either use this authority to promulgate stringent standards applicable to the existing fleet. combine a program of standards with a program of incentives to replace existing aircraft. or concentrate its efforts on the program of incentives. to insure that a program is rapidly and effectively implemented. the bill requires annual reports to congress concerning progress under the program. the proposed bill does  require any particular program of modifications or replacements. since changing techogy present law may give rise to more effective or more ecoical se abatement methods and a broad range of options should be open to the secretary. to estimate revenue requirements. however. it has been assumed that a program of modifying or providing suitable incentives for the replacement of the existing domestic fleet of approximately 2.000 turbinepowered jet aircraft would cost approximately $550.000 per aircraft. while this amount is less than the maximum estimates of the cost of retrofitting the existing fleet. it takes into account hoped for ecoies. the aggregate estimated cost of the program would thus be approximately $1.200.000.000. to fund a program of grants equal to approximately twothirds of this amount over a 4year period. the proposed bill would increase the existing 8percent excise tax upon domestic air travel by 2 percent. the $3 excise tax upon international air travel beginning in the united states by 75 cents. the 5percent excise tax upon the transportation of property by air by 1.25 percent. and the $25 plus 3/2 cents per pound of maximum certificated takeoff weight excise tax upon the use of turbinepowered jet aircraft by 1 cent per pound of maximum certificated takeoff weight. the increases other than the increase of the tax on the use of jet aircraft would take effect on october 1. 1971. and would remain in force through june 30. 1975. as a consequence. the present and proposed rates for the foregoing excises would be as follows: proposed bill domestic ticket -------------- 8 percent --------------------------- 10 percent from oct. 1. 1971. through june 30. 1975. 8 percent thereafter. international departure --------- $3 ---------------------------------- $3.75 from oct. 1. 1971. through june 30. 1975. cargo ------------------------ 5 percent --------------------------- 6.25 percent from oct. 1. 1971.through june 30.1975. 5 percent thereafter. registration ---------------- $25 plus 31 cents per pound maximum $25 plus 5 cents per pound maximum certified takecertified takeoff weight. off weight from july 1. 1972. through june 30. 1975. $25 plus 3.4 cents per pound maximum certified takeoff weight thereafter2 million of revenue over the 4year period as follows:
. in a speech to the legislative council for older americans in boston on april 23. i said: there is valid reason why personal development must come to an abrupt halt at the magic age of 65 or 70 if an individual is both willing and able to do more. at that time i was referring to opportunities in education and employment. today i would broaden that statement to include opportunities for air travel. our older citizens should have at least as many options available as our younger citizens for travel and enjoyment of their leisure years. they have more time to travel and the maturity with which to appreciate it. they frequently have friends and relatives. and even former homes. in distant reaches of the globe. and they have less time remaining to them in which to enjoy the pleasures of travel. the problems besetting older americans today are considerable. ranging from physical and mental impairments and limitations to loneliness and boredom. but one of the major burdens that the elderly must bear is the limitation of fixed incomes. any rise in prices and the cost of living affects all of us to varying degrees. but those who exist on a fixed annual income are hardest hit. consequently. when the air fares were raised again in may of 1971 by 6 percent. aher major obstacle to travel was placed in the path of the elderly. senior citizens are. in effect. being forced to remain at home on fixed incomes while the costs for transportation continue to rise. statistics clearly demonstrate that the elderly do . and usually can. take advantage of travel opportunities. of all americans who crossed state lines this past year. only 1 percent were senior citizens. of all the airline passengers this past year. only 5 percent were over 65. these figures must be viewed against the fact that the elderly comprise 10 percent of the population and that they indeed have available considerably more leisure time. there is ample precedent for offering the elderly reduced travel fares. we already offer a youth fari for those between the ages of 12 and 22. and there are special rates for persons in the military. in canada. reduced rates are already in existence for persons over 65. and klm. the royal dutch airlines. annced on october 4 that it would offer a lower rate for senior citizens flying between the united states and amsterdam starting february 1. lower fares make good ecoic sense for the elderly. but they could also benefit the airlines. which last year flew at only 49 percent capacity. by encouraging many persons to fly who would otherwise be denied this option. tomorrow is today for the older citizens. those who have worked hard in their earlier days should have the opportunity to enjoy fully their leisure time. i call upon the airlines and the cab to act  to bring this extra benefit to our senior citizens.
. the aircraft se situation is a highly critical one in communities across our nation. it is clear that unless we resolve the problem. we will be unable to build the new expanded airport facilities which will be needed in the 1980s if we are to maintain our ecoic strength. i believe that the amendment which the members of the space committee have offered today will be viewed as a vital step on the road to quieter jet airplanes. i commend them for their action. and i urge the senate to approve the committee amendment.
. i have introduced today legislation that would authorize interstate airlines. trains. and buses to provide reduced fares for passengers over 65 years of age. many elderly citizens and members of their families have told me of their wishes for a greater opportunity to visit children and grandchildren who live throughout the united states. in addition. many of the elderly very much wish to travel for pleasure to areas that they have  previously been able to visit. statistics show only 5 percent of all airline passengers during the past year were over 65. yet. 10 percent of the population is in this age bracket. and great numbers of these older citizens have the leisure time available for travel. last year. i suggested to the airlines and the civil aeronautics board that the airlines should gladly make a greater effort to attract these potential passengers with rates that more of them could afford. especially in view of the continuing large number of empty seats on a majority of all air flights. similarly. a majority of all seats on intercity buses and trains are unfilled. regrettably. e of these services have yet responded to this suggestion. therefore. it is  time for the congress to take the matter into its own hands and approve a proposal for reduced rates for the elderly on all public codes of transportation. the bill i have filed today authorized the federal aviation administration. and the interstate commerce commission to grant reducedrate transportation for persons aged 65 and older. as a result of legislation recently approved by congress. ratesetting provisions pertaining to the interstate commerce commission are also applicable to amtrak. the national rail passenger corporation. this proposal is equitable for several reasons. it gives the elderly a greater opportunity to travel and to enlighten their retirement years with pleasant experiences. it provides to citizens. young and old. the opportunity to maintain greater family unity. and practically speaking. it fills seats in many vehicles that  go empty. in the past. regulatory agencies have approved discounts by common carriers to several groups of passengers. including youth. military. religious leaders. and carrier employees and their families. as a result. it was especially disconcerting to me to learn that the civil aeronautics board rejected a request from klm. the royal dutch airlines. to implement lower fares for senior citizens flying between the united states and amsterdam. both the propriety and the need for legislation is clear: senior citizens should longer be forced to remain at home because the costs for travel continue to rise. because congress has traditionally  set specific rates. i have  written into the bill the amount of the discount. etheless. i would suggest that. should this legislation be approved. interstate airlines. trains. and buses consider providing significant discounts in the range of 30 to 50 percent. by mr. jackson (for himself and mr. allott) (by request):
. one of the hopeful developments in the transportation field has been the increasing recognition and use of bicycles. today. there are more than 50 million bicycles in use. and each day thousands of americans are discovering the benefits of bicycle riding. the bicycle is  a new vehicle. it was invented early in the 19th century and was used as an alternative form of transportation through the "horse and buggy" era. today its increasing use is of surprise to the millions of children who have long found it a convenient means of transportation to school or recreation after school. as our city arteries become clogged with automobiles. and as mass public transportation is. in most cases. unable to fill the demand. more americans are turning to bicycles for daily transportation. bicycles have many advantages over automobiles. they are cheaper to purchase and maintain. they provide a highly beneficial form of exercise. they take up little space. and in city traffic. they can often move quicker than automobiles. what is probably more significant. they contribute absolutely air or se pollution. at a time when 60 percent of the air pollution by volume in america is emitted by automobiles. the bicycle stands as an important means of resolving our environmental problems. this is particularly true in the cities. where the percentage of pollution that is caused by automobiles is as high as 80 percent. therefore. i believe that all levels of government must encourage expanded use of bicycles through an accelerated construction of bicycle facilities and a clarification of the rights and responsibilities of bicyclists. to their credit. the departments of transportation and the interior last year initiated a concerted effort to promote bicycling. both from the recreation and the transportation perspectives. transportation secretary john volpe has ordered the federal highway administration to explore the feasibility of establishing bicycle commuter routes in metropolitan areas. in addition. federal agencies have stepped up efforts to provide bicycle racks at federal buildings. bike parking in transportation terminals. and research into vandalproof racks. to me. the most important development in bicycling is contained in s. 3939. the federalaid highway act of 1972.  before the senate. i enthusiastically support the provisions of this measure which makes available highway trust fund moneys to help finance the construction of separate or preferential bicycle lanes or paths. bicycle shelters and parking facilities. and the installation of bicycle traffic control devices. this exciting new dimension in our highway program offers new hope that we shall  be wedded to old modes of transportation when new alternatives are available. to stimulate state initiatives. s. 3939 authorizes $10 million for each of the fiscal years 1974 and 1975 to be apportioned to the states on a formula basis to fund bicycle projects. i am confident my fellow senators will support these essential steps in establishing a national program to accommodate tens of millions of american bicyclists. i am hopeful similar legislation will be approved by the house of representatives. while the momentum for transportation balance through bicycling picks up. much more still needs to be done. on the local and state level. for example. there needs to be a betterdefined and more unified program for registering. licensing. and insuring bicycles and their users. if we are committed to the development of -bicycling as an integral part of our balanced transportation system. then we must provide for orderly legal protection of bicyclists. greater attention must also be paid to bicycle safety. according to the national safety council in 1971. there were 850 bicycle deaths in traffic accidents and an additional 40.000 injuries. this is in addition to hundreds of thousands of injuries which children suffer each year in bicyclerelated accidents. a large part of the answer to the safety program in bicycling. as is true with all vehicles. lies in better education of the bicyclist. every rider should be thoroughly familiar with ordinary rules of the highway before riding a bicycle. the danger to a neophyte bicyclist traveling down a heavily used thoroughfare obviously can be overstated. also. bicyclists should pay regular attention to the maintenance and safety of their vehicles. pedals. brakes. and gears should be regularly inspected. tires should be inflated to proper level. the seat should be comfortable. persons who use their bicycls after dark should make sure they have adequate lights and reflectors so that they can both. see and be seen. perhaps it may be necessary to extend state licensing procedures to all bicyclists using the highway system. the federal government should also encourage research and development of safer bicycles and safer conditions for their operations. regrettably. there has been only sparse research on the potential role bicycles can play in our transportation network. despite the fact that the bicycle is over a century old. little real progress has been made in expanding the use of the bicycle in our industrial society. by contrast it is interesting to e that many of the highly populated asian and european countries have long used bicycles to full advantage. in many countries they are. in fact. the primary means of private transportation. i hope that in the next congress we shall expand on recent initiatives to develop safer and exclusive bicycle lanes in urban areas. and to encourage greater development of bicycle trails in rural areas on our offshore islands and in our national parks. our ongoing reorientation of our national transportation policy must certainly include an active role for bicycles. if we do truly believe in balanced transportation and the goal of enabling people to move about freely and without undue burdens. then it is clear that the bicycle offers untapped opportunities for easing the present commuting crisis in many communities. i pledge my own commitment to an acclerated national bicycle program. and urge that we proceed "fourspeed" ahead.
. i believe this amendment is controversial. and i hope that the distinguished senator from california and the distinguished senator from delaware will agree to accept it. this amendment requires the secretary of transportation to submit to the congress by next july 1. a report on the various means of financing the retrofitting of jet aircraft. and to recommend appropriate legislation to achieve that goal. while the federal government already has ample authority to promulgate se standards for existing aircraft. action has yet been taken officially to finance the means of meeting these standards. depending on the extent of retrofitting. the estimated cost will be between one billion dollars and two and onehalf billion dollars. and. matter what the ultimate financing plan. the federal government will have a role to play. if only because airlines are a regulated industry. the retrofitting/financing issue already has received considerable attention in congress. the executive branch. and the industry itself. on august 2. 1971. i introduced s. 2398. which would provide grants to the air carriers to pay for up to twothirds of retrofitting costs. the source for these funds would be the trust fund created by the airport and airway development act of 1970 as well as an increase from 8 to 10 percent in the air user tax. my colleague senator cranston introduced s. 1566 on april 19. 1971. this bill would finance a retrofitting program by means of guaranteed loans. in addition. there have been other proposals that would provide financing through fare increases. steppedup tax depreciation. and assumption of the costs by the airlines themselves. among others. there are advantages and disadvantages to each of these plans. and i am confident that i speak on behalf of both senator cranston and myself when i say that neither of us is wedded to our own proposal. ultimately. i believe that the financing package will include a mix of several of the proposals that have been made. the amendment which i  offer would allow us to have the benefit of the views of the executive branch on this crucial matter. in fact. it is my understanding that such a study is already under review within the executive branch. including the department of treasury and the office of management and budget. thus. adoption of this amendment will  require the executive branch to undertake a new study. it will simply set a date of july 1. 1973. for its completion. and require that legislative recommendations be made to the congress if the secretary of transportation finds legislation to be necessary. the amendment designates that secretary of transportation conduct the study because his department has been in the forefront of administration efforts to reduce aircraft se. specifically. the federal aircraft se abatement plan has been developed by the office of se abatement within the office of the secretary of transportation. the amendment also authorizes the secretary to consult with other appropriate government and private agencies and individuals. since the federal aviation administration is within the department of transportation. it goes without saying that the faa would be asked to contribute its extensive expertise in the formulation of the financing proposals. again. senators should understand that this amendment complements plans already established by the executive branch to develop both the techogy and financing of aircraft retrofitting. its effect is simply to emphasize congress continuing interest in this vital issue. and to make sure that federal programs will proceed quickly. so that citizens across the nation can be relieved as soon as possible from the bombardment of jet aircraft se.
. this morning. while approaching logan airports runway.  4. delta airline flight  723 crashed into a retaining wall. the dc9 out of burlington. vt.. via manchester. n.h.. flipped over and instantly burst into flames. at this moment the fate of the 83 passengers and 5 crewmembers is  certain. however. reports from the scene indicate there will be few survivors. the people of boston are stunned by this tragedy. our city has been spared similar tragedies in recent years and the pain is particularly great. our resources are mobilized to do all we can to heal the survivors and search for and identify the victims and help their families. there is solace to be found in such suffering. the immense loss of life is staggering and grief spreads far across the land. it may be some time before we learn what caused this frightful crash. according to the flight recorder. the crash occurred at 11:09 a.m. yet. so much happened before and after this moment. for too many the tragedy will long endure. from here in washington all we can offer is prayer and our determination to do all we can to prevent further air tragedies. to those brave men and women at logan airport and in the hospitals throughout boston. a word of thanks is due for a valiant and le effort on behalf of their fellow man.
. i am going to object. the senator from new jersey wants to be here for the votes on the ervin and griffin amendments. but unfortunately. his car has broken down and he will  be here until between 12:15 and 12:30. so if we can do any better than what has been proposed. i would want to stay as we are. rather than having the ervin amendment voted on at this time. and having the senator from new jersey unable to cast his votes on these important amendments.
. with ris cottons retirement imminent. i feel i am losing a friend and confidant. but i k more importantly that ris is gaining some welldeserved time for himself and his gracious wife. ruth. i will miss ris in this chamber where he has been vibrant. i will miss his pheenal memory and mastery of intricate aspects of legislation. i will miss his powerful and persuasive oratory. particularly his extemporaneous remarks that have caused everyone in the chamber to stop and take ice. and i will miss his unstinting work in his committees. as the ranking republican on the committee on commerce. ris has been instrumental in assuring that new england was  shortchanged in transportation. he led the battle for new england air service which led to the certification of air new england as a new regional air carrier. he has prodded the civil aeronautics board to undertake a new england air service investigation. ris cottons imprint can be seen in all aspects of transportation. he played an essential role in the drafting of the 1970 merchant marine act. which has set up a 10year program to revitalize our merchant marine. senator cotton has also been instrumental in the efforts to create. expand. and improve public broadcasting. i k ris best from our service together on the committee on appropriations. particularly its labor. health. education and welfare subcommittee. this subcommittee is responsible for funding hundreds of hew and labor programs. and ris cotton. the subcommittees ranking republican. keeps a watchful eye on each and every program. ris cotton probably has a better grasp of the activities of hew than anyone on the hill. to those programs that are worthy. ris allocates generously. to those programs that are . ris allocates sparingly. with ris cotton. health and education programs. programs for the handicapped and child development simply must meet the test. and ris is exacting in his assessment. he maintains a yankee caution best expressed by him several years ago when he said of uncontrolled spending: the fallacy of this whole approach is the ingrained belief that any human ill can be cured by applying gobs of money. just as our grandmothers used to slap a mustard plaster on our chest for any symptom of whatever nature. but for those social programs that work effectively. ris is inevitably a successful advocate. he has always been on the go. perhaps he is following his own admonition that the country would be healthier if the democrats were "a little less slaphappy" and the republicans "a little more alive." ris cotton is vibrantly alive with a joy of life and a keen sense of humor. i am going to miss him very much. and i wish him and ruth all the best in the years ahead.
. once again i would like to state my support of the peace corps. and of the important role it has in creating an atmosphere of understanding throughout the world. as i have stated previously. the peace corps has proven to be an invaluable instrument of support to the indigent peoples of the world. in their struggle for a better life. the corps has served its greatest function. however. as a vehicle for the expression of u.s. good will toward all nations. my faith in the peace corps is reaffirmed each time i hear of the personal commitment and sacrifices made by those individuals who give unselfishly of their talents. i recently received word of aher of my constituents who had made such commitment and sacrifice through his participation in the peace corps program. he is mervyn l. hamer of new bedford. mass.. who is currently serving in tonga. at this time. i would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues an article detailing the fine work of this man. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record. there being objection. the article was ordered to be printed in the recoid. as follows:
i certainly commend the senator from california. but i am a little amused when he says we have all these great mass transit systems in the east. where are they. the senator from rhode island just said they are certainly  in rhode island. i can say they are certainly  in massachusetts. the senator from new hampshire can say they are  in new hampshire. actually. we have been trying to break that highway trust fund for years so we could have some mass transit systems. but they have always been able to block us and keep us from doing that. the fact is we do  have many mass transit systems and where we do have them they are old. dilapidated. deteriorated. actually. we just do  have the transit system to move the massive numbers of people that we have. on the other hand. we hear out west they go 200 or 300 miles on those great highways out there just to socialize in the evening. with a great waste of gasoline. we certainly understand the predicament. but the senator said they do  have any mass transit system in california. whatever happened to that multimillion dollar system that we built in san francisco. is that still-
i am  persuaded by the money in the trust fund because before pushing this amendment i called the department of transportation as to what the buckley amendment would cost for which i voted and what this amendment would cost. the department of transportation said there were ample funds in the trust funds for that. but i certainly am persuaded by the word of the chairman and ranking member of the committee that they feel very strongly about this issue and will conduct hearings just as soon as they get the report because they recognize the seriousness of the retrofitting problem. it has been with us. as the distinguished senator from new york has said. for many. many years. and many people are concerned about it. with that assurance i think we are satisfied that we will get some action this time. and that you will have a hearing and. hopefully. find a proper vehicle after those hearings are concluded.
the airport operators from small airports in massachusetts who have contacted us have pointed out that the minimum provided each airport in this legislation of .1150.000 would  begin to cover the costs they have projected for the next year.
we thank the distinguished chairman for his assurances. to illustrate the kinds of needs of some of our smaller airports in massachusetts. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a chart prepared by the faa which shows the high cost of some individual airport projects.
the senator has that assurance. i wish to point out to the senator as to this $10 million. because we had this discussion earlier this aftern. that we agreed upon for botswana. i would  have proposed that amendment until i was assured of the projects. and one of the projects would be to enhance the railroad capability that the senator from alabama is so interested in. $3.8 million of that amount would be used for that purpose.
the senator earlier submitted an amendment for a ship which would take care of the suffering of those people who were injured in leba. would this take care of the same group that the senator was interested in servicing at that time.
i thank the distinguished chairman. and i am very pleased to hfear that hearings will be held. i am glad the senator is working on it. and i thank him also for his very kind and generous remarks. aher issue i feel strongly about is the need for a nationwide computer information system which keeps all vital records on a vessels ownership history and inspection records. i am delighted that some of these provisions are contained in s. 682. but i do  see in the bill any provision for giving the captain of each port the capability of accessing data immediately as my bill explicitly mandated. does the committee expect the captains of port to have such systems.
i thank the senator. t i am encouraged by the statements that s we will have some oversight of this op- i eration within the appropriations coin- 1 mittee. i think it is very important that we hold the coast guard to doing it. i have great faith in the coast guard. i am sure. as the senator says. that if they are working on it. it will be done but i am still glad we have that over.* sight. aher issue of tremendous concern to me is the reorganization of our marine pollution research efforts. the consolidation of these efforts under the administration of a was also mandated under my proposal and i am delighted we are apparently on the way to having this reform enacted into law. however. i hope that once we have done so. your committee will consider asking the administration to prepare a longer range plan for marine pollution research getting overall goals and intermediate targets. i put such a provision in my bill s. 898 because i think it is counterproductive to authorize studies of nature which require longer time perspectives than just 1 year at a time. such a system does  allow the researchers to pace their work  to attract the best people. and i am concerned that the research sections of s. 682 do  include any changes in engineering. naval architectural science research. my bill would have created a consolidated program of research into and commercialization of oil spill recovery techogy and vessel construction techniques. it was clear to me from our tanker disasters this winter and the hearings that followed that there is substantial progress in the variety of current efforts underway. the presentations of the several agencies involved in developing and implementing these techogies further persuaded me that strong new direction is needed. since that time. prof. jerome milgram of the massachusetts institute of tech. ogys ocean engineering departmen: has published an analysis of our equip ment needs. and he calls for the develop. ment of total spill cleanup systems as wel) as individual items. including flotation chambers that can be welded onto ships. new portable fendering systems. equipment for measuring air space and air pressure in the cargo tanks and. of course. new substances to help burn off or disperse spilled oil safely. that would have been very important in the argo merchant spill. if we had had some substance which could have burned off or dispersed that oil. i should add that others advising me. such as the distinguished capt. gifford warner. a salvor from essex. conn.. have also emphasized the need for new engineering developments like relief valves which close upon grounding or submerging. i would like to ask the distinguished chairman how the commerce committee views the nations research program on spill prevention. cleanup equipment and techniques. and how or whether it will recommend to the senate that we strengthen these.
the fear i have is that you would have a weiltodo city. that might have a distressed neighborhood or a small area on the other side of the railroad tracks. apply and qualify for these funds. the funds would be taken awaysince there would be limited fundsfrom a distressed city. such as milwaukee. which really needs the funds. if we had unlimited money. that might  be a problem. however. as i said. the strongest case the senator makes is that this amendment is permissive. if the secretary does  find. in her wisdom. that there is a distressed area that warrants the use of udag fundsand i believe it would be a question of priority so far as the secretary of hud would be concernedthen the secretary could decline to award these funds.
. section 602 of the foreign assistance act of 1961. as amended. instructs the executive to seek greater involvement of small businesses in the contractual arrangements provided for under the act. it is my belief that the congress has the responsibility to make sure that this policy directive is carried out. passage of my amendment will provide a vehicle to do so. exhibit 1
. let me first say that i never cease to be amazed at the talents of our distinguished colleague from california. and the scholarship that went into the statement that he has made on this floor this morning. i just regret that many of our colleagues in the senate. who i am sure are tied up in committees and have other commitments. could  be present. i wish they could have been treatedand it was a treatto the scholarship that went into the senators presentation. and the obvious indepth research that also went into the presentation. the concept is. as the senator from california has said.  a new concept. but it is a fresh concept for us to consider in rapid transit legislation. and it is a concept that i think carries with it great possibilites. i did  k that the senator had formerly been a taxi driver. but i certainly say that that augurs well for the taxicab profession. if the senator from california has once served as a member of that profession. i listened very intently. with few interruptions and mi interruptions. to what the senator had to say. it was  only scholarly. but it was amusing and delightful to hear. nevertheless. it was a serious presentation. and i k full well that many of the things that the senator has pointed out few members of this body are aware of. i k the problems that miities have had. for example. in breaking into the field of taxicabs and getting jobs. i k firsthand. as a former attorney general. of the emous cost of the medallions. from $25.000 to $33.000 and maybe even higher. and cities do  get that revenue. they are sold from individual to individual. which automatically forecloses the possibility that the poor or even the near poor. or even some of these moderate income people. could afford to pay for medallions. i also k of the scarcity of taxicabs and taxi service in many of the cities across the nation. and i also k full well. as the senator very astutely pointed out. that there are cabs that will  take certain groups to certain sections in the city. and yet they are regulated by localities. there are some problems. as our distinguished chairman has brought out. and as i said a while ago. the purposes of the amendment are laudable. i think i ought to present to the senator for his thinking some of the questions which come to mind. first of all is the question of cost. to my kledge. one has determined just what the cost of this would be. how much this amendment would cost us. then i am particularly concerned with subsection (c). subsection (c) requires the secretary to pay claims to persons who. prior to the date of enactment. made investments in order to comply with requirements which this section prohibits. as an example. if a locality had requirement for auto insurance. but it did require taxi operators to be insured. as i understand the proposal. the dot secretary would have to reimburse the owner of the taxi the amount of his insurance premiums. is that correct.
subsection (c) -and i refer the senator to subsection (c) of his amendment--subsection (c). as i understand it. requires the secretary to pay claims to persons who. prior to the date of enactment. made investments in order to comply with requirements which this section prohibits. as an example. if a locality had requirement for automobile insurance. but it did require taxi operators to be insured. as i understand the proposal. the dot secretary would have to reimburse the owner of the taxi the amount of his insurance premium. is that correct.
the senator from california makes a strong case. but i believe in the position taken by the distinguished chairman. that. in short. there are many unkns about this proposed amendment. i agree with the principle. i even agree with the amendment itself. with what it attempts to do. the intent of the amendment. i believe. is commendable. it is laudatory. it is an excellent proposal. i believe it is a proposal which the senate ought to hear. but there are unkns. there are unkns as to cost. the chairman brought up the question of getting into the insurance problem. which is a very real problem. i urge upon the senator from california that. since the chairman has said he thought this was an amendment which merited hearings. we get an agreement with the distinguished chairman of the subcommitteeas the ranking miity member of it. i would certainly concurto have hearings on this. we do need jitneys added to our transportation system. there is question about it. at the same time we get that benefit. we get the benefit of alleviating the problems the senator has pointed out so well. so vividly. to the senate which already exist in the taxi industry in this country. the amendment is certainly one that i. in principle and concept. could support and would like to support. i would like to see the senate have hearings. rather than to just take this . have a vote on it. and if it failed. to send out a message that this concept is  approved by the senate. i do  think that would be fair. if the senator would consider it. i would prefer letting us hold hearings as soon as we possibly can. getting witnesses in. and ironing out some of the difficulties we might have with the amendment. perfecting the amendment. then we would come back to the senate with a bill. because i believe it should be a bill which could be accepted by the senate. voted upon by the house. and passed into law. i k that is what the senator wants. he is  just trying to make a record. he wants it as law. i believe it should be given serious consideration. i urge the senator to consider what i take is an offer from the distinguished chairman to hold hearings on the subject. if the senator so desires.
. i should like to address myself to the rail service assistance appropriation. most of this appropriation will fund the rail service continuation program for freight branchlines that otherwise would have been abandoned. the program was authorized by title iv of the regional rail reorganization act and title viii of the rail revitalization and regulatory reform act. the programs are administered by a designated state agency in each state. in particular. i e that the authorizing law establishes a variety of mechanisms for states to use in coping with the problems of threatened rail service: operating subsidy. rehabilitation. acquisition. construction of alternate facilities. it is the view of the states that each state should have considerable flexibility in administering its program to spend the funds on those measures which are best suited to the states objective and the local rail service needs. i ask the distinguished floor manager what is the committees view.
i also call to the senates attention that this rail service continuation program is . as many apparently still believe. being used to save political face or to ease the transition by forestalling abandonment and gradually phasing out the branchlines  included in the conrail system. rather. the states have largely bitten the tough bullet in the beginning. allowed many lines to be abandoned at the outset and concentrated their resources on branchlines which stood a reasonable chance of becoming permanent contributors to the u.s. rail system. for instance. my own state of massachusetts has used this federal assistance program to continue only six of the 18line segments  included in the conrail final system. only about half of the mileage. it is concentrating its resources on revitalizing these six lines physically and servicewise and on stimulating industrial development along them.
i thank the senator. i was particularly pleased to see the committees report language addressing the standards for rehabilitation of branchlines under this program. this is a vital concern to many states. for instance. massachusetts is intensely pursuing industrial expansion and new development along the lines it is continuing. but in order to convince business that such investments are well justified. the state must be able to assure the relative permanence of rail service. one of the best ways to do this is to rehabilitate the lines to a standard compatible with permanent service. this is generally substantially above the minimum safety standards embodied in the fra class i standard. such improved rehabilitation pays off in many operational ways but a big advantage is the stimulus it can give to industrial development. i want to be sure that the committee recognized this when it composed its report.
i thank the distinguished miity leader. i have discussed with him in the past. he will recall. my serious concern about the lack of implementing legislation. we could conceivably pass the treaties and then. as has been pointed out by the distinguished miity leader. the house in exercising its responsibility and the senate exercising its responsibility. could drastictically change the implementing legislation or maybe refuse to pass it. if passage did  occur for some time we would be in an embarrassing position. therefore. since the very beginning i have been calling for a final draft of proposed implementing legislation. we were assured last fall that we would get that implementing legislation. then later on down the road. i was told that the reason we were  going to get the implementing legislation was because the house did  want to consider action on it at this time. that is  our concern. that is the concern of the house of representatives. i can conceive of why the house did  want to even look at it at that time. at some time in the near future it may have to take action on implementing legislation or the treaties are  going to be worth very much. obviously. we would  have necessary appropriations for one thing. which would be essential. or any of the other items which would be contained in the implementing legislation. then a little further down the road the administration said: well. we will send you the proposed implementing legislation. but it will be subject to revision. we do  stand on it as we will send it up to you. well. it is  very reassuring. for the administration to say. "we are just going to send you something which is sort of a model but it can be changed. and drastically changed." finally. and still further down the road. we received this package. which i am  introducing into the record. of what they will likely propose. but with the caveat. still. that it is subject to revision by omb. presumably. this is the last word of the state department and the administration on the subject. i do  think.  that there is a unanimousconsent agreement to vote on the second panama canal treaty. as i understand it. on the 18th of april. that they will go any further than they have gone. therefore. i felt compelled to introduce this reservation at this time. i am pleased that the miity leader has taken the floor and voiced his opinion about it and will give very serious consideration to it. i think this is a very important matter which must be resolved and should be resolved prior to a vote on ratification of the second treaty. i am grateful. as i have said. that the miity leader feels this way. i urge my other colleagues to look closely at this reservation. because i think it certainly merits their consideration. i believe it could help us avoid great troubles downstream. i do  want to forecast great troubles. but i would think this would be one way of avoiding great troubles later on. i hope senators will take this matter seriously. again i thank the distinguished miity leader.
. i am going to oppose this amendment  because i oppose a sealevel canal study but because i believe this to be an improper vehicle for this review. a study is to be part of the implementing legislation accompanying the treaties and should be treated in that context. furthermore. i must insist on seeing an administration justification for funding of this order of magnitude.
madam president. i thank the senator. i certainly share the views of my distinguished colleague from new jersey . and i am very grateful to him for the generous words he has spoken in my behalf. he certainly has been a leader in the entire field of mass transit. he is one of the very few members of congress who so early recognized the great need for mass transit in this country. in the senate. he has really been the leader of the mass transit movement. it is a movement which has been slow in beginning. but it must accelerate if we are  to have our cities and even our towns clogged with traffic and our businesses disrupted because of the lack of viable mass transit systems throughout this country. so it is with great pleasure that i have worked with senator williams on mass transit legislation. i applaud him and commend him for his outstanding service in this field. as well as in the field of human resources. where he serves as the distinguished chairman of that committee. on the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. where we have jurisdiction over national mass transit legislation. we are fortunate to have the distinguished senator from new jersey as our leader. madam president. the distinguished senator from new jersey has outlined the major provisions of senate 2441. the federal public transportation act of 1978. which will be offered as an amendment to senate 3073. this is a most significant bill which reaffirms our national commitment to urban mass transit programs. as approved by the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. this bill would assure adequate funding and equity in the funding of operating assistance to all local transit systems. and would provide substantial new capital funding to meet our longterm public transportation needs in future years. it would also assist transit systems which are being developed and expanded in smaller urban and rural areas. i would just like to highlight some of the important objectives of this legislation. first. the funding levels in this bill reflect the belief that public transportation is an essential element of our national strategy to conserve energy. to improve our air quality. to promote revitalization and ecoic development in our central cities and rural areas. and to improve mobility for all of our citizensincluding the elderly and the handicapped. for these reasons. it seems to me that there is clearer case of need for increased federal support than for assistance to our urban mass transit systems. yet the carter administrationwithout regard to national energy or urban policy objectiveshas strongly urged the senate to cut back our commitment to mass transit and to reduce significantly the funding levels in the committee bill. i hope that my colleagues will resist that temptation and will support the reasonable balance which has already been achieved in the committee bill. second. under the committee bill. the discretionary section 3 capital grant program would be funded at $6.2 billion over the next 4 years. this would permit orderly completion of capital projects which are  under construction or approved by the urban mass transportation administration and expansion of the program to cities which are planning new rail systems or extensions of existing rail systems. third. regarding operating assistance for local transit systems. the bill provides over $1.2 billion in fiscal year 1979 to be distributed under a revised section 5 operating assistance formula. this formula is an improvement over the existing population and population density formula because it recognizes several factors which reflect the nature and extent of existing services provided. however. i believe that the new formula for section 5 operating assistance is still too heavily weighted toward population factors which are largely unrelated to local transit service or to the local financial commitment to transit. in order to provide a more equitable and objective basic for measuring transit "need." i proposed a supplemental operating assistance provision which is included in the bill. this provision seeks to assure that. to the extent possible. mass transit systems receive up to 50 percent of their operating expenses. net of farebox revenues. from the federal government. the provision is intended to promote equity among recipients of operating assistance funds. under the operating assistance program. current law provides for a "cap" of 50 percent of a transit systems operating deficit which is available as operating assistance. many cities. such as los angeles and houston. already receive the full 50 percent funding for operating assistance. and some cities receive additional funding under the section 5 formula which may  be used for operating purposes. but has been used for the purchase of buses. at the same time. other cities which are dependent upon rapid transit or are developing new transit systems. such as san francisco. boston. washington. d.c.. and atlanta. have received far less than 50 percent funding under the section 5 program. for example. san francisco and boston currently receive about 15 percent of their operating deficit funded under the section 5 program. atlanta and washington. d.c. receive only about 25 percent. this provision would target assistance at those local transit systems which have made substantial local commitments to transit and which have been shortchanged under the current section 5 program. i am aware that there will be an amendment offered to delete this provision from the bill. but i would urge my colleagues to evaluate this provision carefully. and to disregard the misinterpretations of the effect and impact of this provision which have been presented. particularly by the administration in its intense lobbying for the amendment to delete the socalled brooke amendment. the brooke amendment would  establish a "radical" or "expensive" new policy concerning operating assistance for urban mass transit systems. as i have already discussed. this interpretation iges the reality of the current funding mechanisr which provides funding to some cities at levels of 50 percent of operating deficit and even higher. in addition. a specific authorization of $127 million in fiscal year 1979 and $891 million over the 4 year life of the bill is provided to fund this provision. estimates of a $2 billion or $3 billion cost for this provision which have been attributed to the department of transportation and the congressional budget office are based upon a misreading of the provision and ige the fact that a specific dollar authorization is provided for each of the next 4 years. i am certain that we will have an opportunity to discuss these and other issues regarding the brooke amendment during the debate on the amendment to delete that provision. but i did feel constrained to correct some of the distortionsand misconceptions which have been raised concerning the impact of the supplemental operating assistance program. finally. i would like to e that this bill contains a new formula grant program for small urban and rural areas which is funded at $100 million a year for the next 4 years. this provision recognizes the importance of establishing an ongoing program of capital and operating assistance for smaller communities. and the availability of operating assistance for the first time in smaller communities represents a national commitment to encourage the development and expansion of public transportation services. madam president. this is a fine bill which i enthusiastically support. much of the credit should be given to my distinguished colleague from new jersey who has led the fight for urban mass transit programs since he succeeded in establishing a permanent mass transit program in 1964. i strongly urge my colleagues to support this major legislation which provides for an effective and equitable national public transportation program. before i conclude. madam president. i would like to include in the record by unanimous consent the names of the distinguished and very hardworking members of the majority and miity staff of this committee. who have worked together with senator williams and with me in putting together what i believe to be a really fine bill. which i hope that the senate will pass overwhelmingly.
i could  agree more with the senator from texas. that is exactly what i believe in. i think that the senator from maine. the senator from oklahoma. certainly the senator from new jersey and i all agree that we have to be concerned about the american taxpayer. but we also should be concerned about the fairness of the allocation mechanism. should population be the principal means of allocation or should it be commitment to mass transit. many of the cities do  want mass transit at all. they do  want to put any money into it. they can solve their problems otherwise. but there are some cities that are committed to mass transit. they have done a lot for mass transit. their whole ecoy depends upon mass transit systems. and that commitment can be measured by the population of the particular city. rural areas are also concerned about the need for mass transit. because they see that it is cost effective. it takes people to their jobs and it creates jobs.
i thank the senator. i just want to say that being cognizant of that. in an attempt to be reasonable while at the same time attempting to correct what i believe. and i believe the senator from maine has already agreed. although he may  understand the extent to which inequities exist in funding for the various rapid transit systems around the country. that what we have tried to do in this bill is to try to correct those inequities while. at the same time. giving serious consideration to the budgetary problems we knew could exist. therefore. the limitations are clearly contained in the authorization. i certainly would be one to resist the pressures. and i am quite aware that pressures would build. i have seen them build around here. and i k the senator from maine sees them every day. as a matter of fact. almost every bill we have on the floor requires his attention constantly. both in authorizations and in appropriations. to see to it that the pressures that build to go beyond our budget ceilings are rejected. but i just wanted to assure the senator that when i hear such language. as i said before. as "inflation. inefficiency. and openended commitments." that that was  the intent of the proposer of this amendment or my distinguished chairman. senator williams. or the members of the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee on which the distinguished senator from maine once served himself. it is a very seriousminded and very conservative committee. as he well ks. while there was  an overwhelming vote in the committee i must confess. at least the committee did vote on this provision with full kledge of what its impact would be. and i think the deciding factors were based upon the inequities that presently exist in the formula. there are many cities which we are trying to help here that are committed to mass transit and need increased mass transit. they have already demonstrated their desire to have a viable transit system by their own expenditures. so what we would be doing here is to correct an inadequate formula so that it would be a formula which did  short change those cities that want mass transit and have demonstrated  only their desire for it. but their intention to construct and to operate mass transit systems. which are so sorely needed in those cities. i thank the senator and i would just like to proceed and get back to aher subject. there is a second limitation also present in the bill. recognizing the budgetary constraints and the fact that 50 percent funding is actually a goalit is a goal and  a mandatei want to point that out. because i think i heard language on the floor this morning which would indicate that some thought it was a mandatei repeat it is  amandate. it is just a goalthe bill provides that if appropriations in any given year are insufficient to finance fully the 50percent provision. then those cities which are eligible for assistance under this provision would take a pro rata reduction in supplemental assistance. i think that is a real safeguard. and that was put in for a specific and obvious reason. as i have stated. the 50percent provision. far from being a floor. as some have claimedand i heard this morning that it was a floor. and it is  a floorit is rather a goal. which would represent the achievement of equity for those eligible cities under the operating assistance program. this provision does  establish the principle that a city is entitled to receive 50percent funding of its transit deficit. it recognizes the reality that some cities are currently receiving 50percent funding and more under the formula. and that other cities. which are constrained by an inequitable population formula allocation. are  receiving their just share of funding. i think that is a laudable purpose. and it is based upon a material existing fact. the city of houston. as i pointed out. receives 50 percent or more under the present formula. and there are other cities which. because they have an inequitable formula allocation. are just  receiving their equitable share of the funding. in fact. the 11 cities which would gain under this provision represent a majority. almost 60 percent. of the transit ridership in the nation. in the entire nation. and i think that is very significant. we are talking about people. we are talking about transporting people from job to home or wherever they need to be transported. and 60 percent of the entire ridership in the whole nation would gain under this provision in these 11 cities. those three cities which are cited as major beneficiaries of the provision are new york. boston. and san francisco. they carry nearly 50 percent of our nations riders. can you imagine. just three cities whose transit systems carry nearly 50 percent of our nations riders. . mass transit operating assistance is  a general revenuesharing program. it was never intended to be a general revenuesharing program.  is it the same as a community development block grant program. these funds are to be targeted at those local transit systems with demonstrated needs. those systems which provide substantial transit service. in localities which are willing to make a real local financial commitment to transit. i somewhat liken it to the debate concerning the department of housing and urban developments udag program. which we considered on the floor earlier this year. the program provides discretionary money which the secretary of hud distributes to cities which have developed specific programs. many believe that udag should be just aher revenuesharing program. when the purpose of that bill was to aid distressed cities wherever they may be in the country--cities that are really ecoically distressed and are deteriorating. it is  intended that all cities be eligible for that special program. some claim that. say. my own hometown of newton. mass.. which by means could ever be classified as a distressed city. should share udag funds with. say. some of the cities around the country that are really distressed such as detroit. for example. or newark. n.j.. or washington. d.c.
referring to the ship sales act. is there anything in that act that would prohibit the commission taking cognizance of a critical emergency condition in this country and on its own initiative doing exactly the same sort of thing that you very commendably did do with reference to the 50 tankers. and making an effort then to charter any remaining portion of these tankers during this one season in order to take care of this critical situation. what about that.
house interstate and foreign commerce committee. washington. d. c. dear sir: reference your telegram of february 23. the locations of tankers you requested are as follows: previous discharge loading discharge vessel ...... port date port date port date a. c. bedford --------. new york -------- -feb. 20 aruba ----------- feb. 27 baltimore -----.....mar. 8 beacon ------------- . -- do ----------- feb. 6 caripito -------- feb. 17 everett --------- feb. 25 dartmouth --------- jacksonville ------- feb. 23 atreco ---------- feb. 29 baltimore_ ----- mar. 6 esso annapolis -------- paulsboro --------- feb. 15 port arthur ------- feb. 21 new york ........ feb. 26 esso aruba --------- new york ........ feb. 20 aruba ----------- feb. 26 ---..-do ----------- mar. 5 esso augusta---: ...... everett --------- feb. 14 baytown -----......feb. 22 -..do ----------- feb. 27 esso baltimore -------- new york ........ feb. 21 harbor island -- feb. 28 baltimore --------- mar. 6 esso bayonne ------------ do -----_----- feb. 22 baton rouge ------ do --- boston ---------- mar. 7 esso baytown ......... baltimore --------- feb. 12 ---- do ----------- feb. 21  york ----- feb. 27 esso bayway ---------- new york ........ feb. 19 harbor island. .... feb. 25 --- do .............. mar. 3 rsso buffalo --------- baltimore ....... feb. 24- ._..do ----------- feb. 29 ---- do ----------- mar. 7 rsso camden ---------- philadelphia ---- feb. 15 baytown ---------- feb. 22 - do ----------feb. 27 rsso charleston ....... jacksonville ....... feb. 24 ---- do ----------- feb. 29 port tampa ---- mar. 5 rsso charlotte --------- portland ---------- feb. 18 beaumont ------ feb. 24 new york ........ mar. 2 esso concord -------- new york ----- feb. 23 baytown ---........feb. 29 ---- do ----------- mar. 8 esso cumberland ---- baltimore --------- feb. 18 amesville --------- feb. 22 everett --------- feb. 27 esso dover ---------- jacksonville --- feb. 12 tampico ---------- feb. 20 charleston -------- feb. 25 esso elizabeth i ....... portland -------- feb. 9 las piedras ----- feb. 16 campana - ------ mar. 2 esso greenville -------- charleston -------- feb. 18 baytown ---------- feb. 24 sewells point ..... feb. 29 essa hartford --------- galveston --------- feb. 22 .... do ----------- feb. 23 philadelphia ------ do. esso kville ------- san juan -------- feb. 19 point la cruz .... feb. 22 new york ........ feb. 28 esso little rock ------- new york (rep.).. feb. 7 harbor island. .... feb. 21 --- do ------------ feb. 26 esso manhattan ------- baltimore ------- feb. 14 - do --------------.do --- baltimore --------- do. esso memphis --------- point everglades.- feb. 19 baytown ---------- feb. 23 charleston - ....... feb. 29 esso montpelier ----- new york ------ feb. 16 baton rouge ---- feb. 22 boston ----------- do. esso nashville --------- jacksonville -.....feb. 19 baytown .-.... feb. 24 everett --------- mar. 2 esso  haven ---. new york ........ feb. 17 point la cruz -.- feb. 23 new york ........ mar. 1 esso new orleans -----......do ----------- feb. 18 aruba ....----------- do-.--. sewells point --- do. esso folk -----------.... .do ---------- feb. 15 baton rouge ----- do --- paulsboro --------- feb. 28 esso parkersburg ------......do- --------- feb. 22 point la cruz.. feb. 27 new york ----- mar. 5 esso paterson - m------- morehead city.... feb. 19 baytown ---------- feb. 25 philadelphia---- mar. 3 esso philadelphia --- baltimore --------- feb. 23 harbor island --- feb. 28 new york ----- mar. 5 esso pittsburgh ....... portland ---------- feb. 22 avondale --------- mar. 1 -- do ----------- mar. 7 esso portland --------- buenaventura --- feb. 19 aruba ----------- feb. 24 folk --------- mar. 1 esso portsmouth i-- new york ------ feb. 18 harbor island ----- do --- campana --------- mar. 16 esso providence ---- new york (rep.).. jan. 31 tampico ---------- feb. 29 charleston -------- mar. 7 esso raleigh --------- new york ----- feb. 24 aruba ----------- do_ - new york ---- mar. 6 esso reading ------------- do ---------- feb. 16 las piedmas ---- feb. 22 portland ---------- feb. 28 esso richmond ---------- do ----------- feb. 18 avondale --------- feb. 24  york ------ feb. 29 esso roae ----------- do ----------- feb. 21 baton rouge ---- feb. 26 boston ---------- mar. 4 esso rochester -------- baltimore --------- feb. 24 aruba ----------m mar. 2 rio do janeiro .... mar. 16 esso scranton --------- new york ...... feb. 21 point la cruz -.- feb. 26  york ------ mar. 3 esso springfield ----- tiverton ---------- feb. 23 baytown ------.....feb. 29 sewells point ..... mar. 6 esso utica--- ------- new york --------.... do-.-- corpus christi ------- do ---- new york ........ do. esso wilmington ---- wilmington ....... feb. 22 aruba ------------ feb. 26 santos ---------- mar. 10 fred w. weller -------- new york -------- feb. 11 --- do ----------- feb. 19  york ------ feb. 26 g. harrison smith -..- galveston ----- feb. 23 harbor island .. feb. 24 ---- do ----------- mar. 3 john d. arcbbold --- new york ........ feb. 17 ---- do ----------- do - ----......do ----------- mar. 4 paul h. harwood 3w. s. farish ---------new york .. feb. 11 baytown- ..... feb. 18 new york ........ feb. 28 wallace e. pratt --- do ........---- feb. 22 baton rouge ..... feb. 28 ..... do ---------- mar. 7 i vessels owned by imperial oil shipping co.. ltd. 3 vessels owned by panama transport co. 4 lakearuba service. all of these tankers except the esso elizabeth. esso portsmouth. esso rochester. paul h. harwood. and esso wilmington are assigned to move our eastcoast requirements in march. we estimate that  all of these available vessels will be required to meet our eastcoast requirements in march. and to the extent  needed they will be assigned elsewhere to meet our other requirements. yours very truly.
house interstate and foreign commerce committee. washington. d. c. dear sir: your recent cable addressed to. panama transport co.. balboa. requesting information regarding tankers owned or chartered by them  engaged in transporting petroleum and petroleum products overseas from united states ports has been referred to this office for reply. and we list the following vessels which fall within that category: owned: livingston roe. due corpus christi march 22. loads 83.000 barrels bunkie pine crude. supplied by esso standard oil co. (louisiana division). sails 23d for discharge havana. consigned standard oil co. of cuba. export license has as yet been obtained. bareboat chartered: fort lane. due new york march 4. repairs. sails 25th. due baytown march 30. loads part cargo 30.000 barrels toluol. part cargo 30.000 barrels varsol. supplied by humble oil & refining co.. sails 31st. thence proceeds corpus christi. due april 1 to load balance cargo 70.000 barrels motor spirits. supplied by pontiac refining co. or southwestern oil refining co.. sails 2d. the toluol and varsol portions of cargo are destined for aruba consigned to lago oil & transport co.. ltd.. and the motor spirits is destined for the united kingdom consigned to the petroleum board (british). export license has as yet been obtained. bareboat chartered: chemawa at new york repairing. sails february 27. due baton rouge march 3. loads part cargo 25.000 barrels lubricating oils supplied by esso standard oil co.. sails 4th for discharge rio de janeiro consigned to standard oil co. of brazil. export license required for this shipment. yours very truly.
they would be buildings erected under the airport program. certainly. there are also several other construction items. which i have  detailed. warehouses that are being rented all over the country. and the like of that.
. i introduced this aftern a resolution which would amend section 11 of the federal airport act by adding at the end of that section the following proviso: provided. that the administrator shall require assurance from any airport sponsor that shall directly affect the ecoic or businessmanagement policy of an airport by prescribing a formula. standard or ceiling for any rate. rental. charge. or fee established for any occupant or user of airport ground. building. or other space facility or business privilege. the resolutio. has been referred to the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. and is f. r. 6747. i have done this with the unanimous approval of the massachusetts delegation in the house. i further understand that probably a similar proposal will be filed next week in the other body by the senators from massachusetts. this action has been taken by the massachusetts house delegation primarily because the commonwealth of massachusetts faces the loss of $442.000. the discretionary portion of the funds allocated to it under the federal airport program unless the civil aeronautics administration immediately reverses its refusal to extend the deadline. which expires next monday. these facts appear concisely in a resolution adopted unanimously this morning by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce and which has been sent to mr. f. b. lee. acting administrator. if a reply is received today. i shall include it in the extension of these remarks. the committee resolution is as follows: whereas jhe committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house of representatives has held hearings on h. r. 6180. a bill to amend the federal airport act. and whereas it appears that the civil aeronautics administration has informed the commonwealth of massachusetts that. in order to qualify for a grant o: $600.000 for project developments at the gen. edward lawrence logan airport at boston. mass.. it must. on or before may 31. 1948. agree in writing. to be effective for a period of 20 years. to certain provisions  embodied in the civil aeronautics administrations third draft project application. form aca1624. revised as of march 12. 1948. part iii. sponsors assurances. and whereas the committee has been informed that legislation has been reported to the general court. the legislative body of the commonwealth of massachusetts. intended to make it possible for the commonwealth of massachusetts to comply with the requirements of the civil aeronautics administration. and whereas the committee has been informed further that it is impossible for the legislative body of the commonwealth of massachusetts to complete its action on these proposals prior to may 31. 1948: therefore be it resolved. that the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house of representatives. meeting in executive session. has unanimously adopted a motion to formally request by this committee resolution that the civil aeronautics administration extend the period in which the commonwealth of massachusetts may qualify to receive said grant to june 19. 1948. in terms of the resolution which i have filed and for the information of members from other states. i would like to say that the general existing conditions resulting from the policy adopted by the civil aeronautics administration has created so much concern among those state and municipal authorities who operate airports all over this country that their representatives appeared before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce at a recent hearing and expressed vigorous disapproval. i think it is fair to state that the effect of the policy is causing the gravest kind of concern throughout our states. in fact. it reached a point in the statement of one witness where the committee was told. in effect. that if the trend toward such a policy was extended. he would be compelled to recommend that the airport. one of the largest in the nation. should decline to participate in the federal program. i am greatly concerned. and i think others are. that such a development on a policy level should jeopardize the fulfillment of the hopes we all have of a very vigorous and progressive development of our air transport system throughout the nation. i regret exceedingly that the civil aeronautics administration has  been impressed with the argument we have advanced repeatedly that it should do its utmost to cooperate with the local authorities in developing a sound ecoic program to place these airports on a selfsustaining basis and to remove the financial burden from the backs of the taxpayers in this country. as this matter develops. i shall want to report to the members more fully. but. at this time. i think this brief outline of the situation which confronts the commonwealth of massachusetts. together with the statement of the general situation toward which this resolution is directed may be adequate. i hope that other members will consult the airport authorities in their states to determine how the policy of the caa may be affecting their airports and that they will take an active interest in an effort to devise a more satisfactory policy which can be indicated to the civil aeronautics administration in the hope that it will approve. of course. if it becomes necessary for congress to reexamine the airport legislation and redefine the congressional intention. i hope this can be done promptly. in the meantime. i feel confident that all of our colleagues will support this last desperate effort on the part of a sister state to work out some solution so that it will  be deprived of a substantial grant to which. in every sense of the word. it is justly entitled. to say the least. it is ironical that a state which contributes approximately $4 to the federal revenue for every $1 it receives should find itself in this predicament because of what i think can be fairly described as arbitrary action by an executive office responsible to this congress. i would like to include. under permission granted me. a statement made by assistant attorney general sumner w. elton. of the commonwealth of massachusetts. at the hearing before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. this statement describes in some detail the position of the commonwealth of massachusetts and i. think it may be very useful as a matter of the record at this time since the committee hearings will  be available for some time yet. i alsc am including two other statements which will indicate clearly that this policy problem does  affect massachusetts alone. while the printed hearings and the files of the committee on interstatc and foreign commerce will disclose the concern which i believe is almost unanimous throughout this country. because of the possible urgency of congressional action. i think these two statements from eminently qualified witnesses will be of particular interest to members from other states. and i repeat that i do hope our colleagues from other states may obtain prompt advice from their airport authorities on this problem. may i call your attention directly to the fact that mr. buckley. director of airport development. the port of new york authurity. spoke in behalf of many of the major airport operators who are members of the airport operators council and to the telegrams to the authorities in chicago. cleveland. denver. detroit. jacksonville. kansas city. st. paul. st. louis. and san francisco. when i discuss this matter further. i propose to include a summary of other opinions which have been received by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce.
. i am confident that the action soon to be taken op this resolution will be an overwhelming. if  unanimous approval of the recommendation of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. that committee has made consistent efforts all this session to develop legislation which could result in such approval by all the members of the house as being in the common interest of the railroad employees. the railroad industry. and the public. the committee report explains concisely and clearly the purposes of. and the necessity for this legislation. as stated in the report. it is controversial. is urgently needed. and should be enacted at the earliest possible moment. that moment will be within the next few minutes. and i hope that the result here will have the immediate effect of clearly indicating the wisdom of prompt and favorable action elsewhere.
i am sorry that we do  make much progress toward my ideas. but i would like to have you let me k as soon .as possible. and i will make this quite specific. whether you are going to insist: (1) on the commonwealth of massachusetts signing this by may 31. and (2) whether you have any other alternative as a result of these hearings and anything that has been said or that has come to your mind. and are you willing to explore the question which has been raised here as to just whether you are acting within the scope and intent of the federal airport act. and furnish a specific and detailed brief as soon as possible. pointing out to this committee upon what provision of law you rely. what testimony in the hearings. and what phraseology in the committee reports on either side. or in the conference report. or in the debates. when any of this legislation was enacted. which gives you the right or imposes upon you the duty of going into these matters which i have described as. in my opinion. matters of local administration essentially. and matters of ecoic judgment by competent local authority. i would like to see that brief as closely written as possible. omitting hing that you rely upon as the basis of your answer. mr. lee stated: we shall be glad to furnish that. " this n i received a letter from mr. lee. enclosing a copy of the brief. i include the letter. the brief. and the copy of part 550 of the regulations. which is incorporated by reference in the brief:
i would like to ask the gentleman from south dakota if this contains an amendment also covering the matter of aviation training for veterans. it is my understanding that such action was taken. but i want to be sure we are doing what we thought we were.
. i would like to try to help in this matter. if i can. i agree with the gentleman from kansas [mr. scrivneri that there is real merit in his suggestion of a limitation. i say so because i find in the hearings that there has been discussion of a substantial airport program. i read a few moments ago a statement by mr. sieker. in which he said that they had made a preliminary study and it adds up to a grant total of 105 airports. at a cost of $2.800.000.
if you will let me proceed a little further i think it will become clearer. he says: that is the total cost.  merely the cost to the government. that represents new airports as well as expansion of existing airports. i am sorry i do  have the breakdown to indicate which they are. about half of them are inside the national forests and the other half are outside. then the chairman inquired: as of . how many airports are under the jurisdiction of the forest service. he replied: i am sorry i do  have the exact figure. but it seems to me we operate about 25 airports. very few of which. perhaps e of which are wellqualified public airports. they are  open to the public. they are just there for administrative use. they are just air strips. i think that is significant: "they are just air strips." although the total runs high. i think it will appear that they do have. for administrative purposes. good reason for having just an air strip on which to land. let me read some of the testimony of mr. conrad wirth. chief. land and recreational planning division. department of the interior: the national parks were set aside for their scenic values and our national monuments for their historic and prehistoric values. and up to the present time we have been successful in keeping out of those areas large commercial enterprises. in other words. in order to preserve them in their natural condition we feel we must and should keep the lines of traffic to their gates outside of the park if at all possible. therefore. we propose in this caseand furthermore. the secretary feels the second reason is that most of these areas are very rugged. rough. and to build airports in them would be destructive and in many cases dangerous. he goes on to say that what they are proposing in this amendment is to allow the same privilege of building airports in the near vicinity of these parks as the law  provides that they may be built within the parks. that that is the sole purpose of it. and he makes this statement: to be perfectly frank. as far as we are concerned. we do  wish to get into the airport business. but we are anxious to get air travel to the parks as much as we are railroad traffic. most of our areas are  served by railroads. which is fine. in fact. the railroads were instrumental in the early days in establishing and in making these parks possible. a combination of air and rail travel will give all people an opportunity to visit these areas. he cited the instance of the big bend national park in texas and made this statement: the nearest airport  is at alpine. approximately 65 miles from the park entrance. it is possible to build an entrance closer to the park. within 2 or 3 miles. near the entrance to the park. also in close proximity to the town of marathon. which is the main entrance to the park. he discussed west yellowstone where there is an existing airport. and stated it had to be closed in 1948 because it was  big egh to take care of the big planes. the caa gave authority in 1948 to western airlines to stop going in there because it was dangerous. he states that there is a fairly goodsized community there. in a national forest adjoining a national park and that its main existence is the park. then he goes on to point out that in michigan. in colorado. and in washington there are other instances where they have very much similar situations. for instance. in michigan. at isle royal national park they want to put in a seaplane base in one of the harbors there. which would be relatively inexpensive. because it would be just a matter of location. the installation of buoys. and so forth. i think that gives a somewhat better idea of what the committee had before it by way of evidence. but i call your attention also to r. letter from the general manager of the aircraft owners and pilots association endorsing this bill and making a rather significant statement: the proposed legislation when coupled with existing provisions of ths federal airport bill will authorize the secretary of the interior to sponsor and jointly sponsor airports as well in the national parks. national monuments. and national recreation areas. i point out this portion of the letter and this is a convincing point to me because i am just as much concerned. i am sure the gentleman from kansas ks. as anyone is. in avoiding reckless expenditures that are  in the best interests and within the financial ability of the nation as a whole. i commend the gentleman for his vigilance in the matter. the letter reads: i also point out that the proposal is a worthwhile ecoy measure. as joint sponsorship with the adjacent local government can operate to reduce the construction and operation and maintenance work. at the present time all these costs must be borne by the federal government on airports constructed within the parks. even though they would serve the parks as well as the adjacent local areas. . may i turn briefly to a discussion of the matter found at the bottom of page 2 and the top of page 3 of the bill and which is referred to on page 1 of the committee report. here again we sought. and i think have effectively placed. an additional check on any expenditures or any developments that would  be sound. because we provide that hing in this act shall be held to authorize the secretary to acquire any land or interest in or over land by purchase. condemnation. grant. or lease. without first obtaining the consent of the gover of the state and. second "or." but "and." the consent of the state political subdivision in which such land is located. the reason we use the words "political subdivision" is that we were informed that in some instances it might be a county rather than a city or a town. i think this adequately achieves a limitation and protection. especially when coupled with such limitation as the gentleman from kansas may offer. i believe we will have a satisfactory piece of legislation which i think will be in the interest of creating more opportunities for travel to these parks by the general public. remember. over a million people visited yellowstone last year. these great national resorts. parks. monuments. and recreational areas have been developed for the specific purpose of getting them close to the people. there has been a steady and healthy increase in the number of visitors to these parks and areas and i think that by encouraging air travel we shall be contributing to a sound program. i would suggest to the gentleman the figure used by the gentleman from texas. $1.280.000. or whatever it is. would be a satisfactory one and would meet with substantial agreement.
reserving the right to object. . will the gentleman explain what the attitude of the committee was in terms of this additional money. i have in mind that in all probability most of the funds will be allocated to the larger airports by reason of the national defense requirements. my understanding is that the committee does  intend that these funds shall be permanently allocated in any manner which would be inequitable to the smaller airports. they are vitally necessary for a sound air transport system.
. i realize that it is completely impossible to try to discuss fully the reasons why i support. with three of my colleagues on my side of the aisle. the provisions of the original bill. h. r. 3669. we have submitted very brief additional miity views of only three pages at the end of the committee report which we hope will be helpful. but i do want to touch briefly. if i may. on certain points made by my colleagues on my own side whose complete sincerity i recognize and appreciate. something has been made of the proposition that if you adopt the committee substitute there will be immediate relief. there is reason to be concerned about that whatsoever. the provision of h. r. 3669. in section 27 (a). specifies that the relief under that bill shall go into effect after the last day of the month in which that bill is enacted. the formulas for computation and recomputation of benefits are all prepared and could be applied immediately. you can get any faster action under the hall substitute than you can under the original bill. i want to agree that there are two major principles upon which the entire committee was in accord. first. there is obviously great need for assistance for the beneficiaries under the railroad retirement act. there is the greatest need. however. for the beneficiaries who are receiving the least. and under the committee bill as reported those people will suffer most in terms- of being deprived of the benefits they need and which we could provide under the original h. r. 3669. let me give you two simple -illustrations: this flat percentage increase to the surviving widow would increase her benefit from $29.68 a month to $39.57. that is under the committee bill. it constitutes relief. for the average dependent child that receives $17.18 a month . an increase to only $22.90 under the hall substitute can hardly be described as adequate relief. however. under h. r. 3669. as it was originally introduced. by reason of the guaranty that these beneficaries would receive at least a minimum of what they otherwise would be receiving under social security. you would increase these benefits up to between 60 and more than 75 percent. to people who desperately need that assistance. let me give you two further specific examples. where the average monthly pay was $150. under the present act a widow receives $30.10 monthly. under the committee bill. she would receive only $40.13. a widow under similar circumstances under the present social security act receives $43.13. under h. r. 3669. as originally introduced. she would receive $52. in the case of a widow with one dependent child where the average monthly pay was $150. under the present act she receives $50.17. under the committee bill she would receive only $66.88. a widow under similar circumstances under the present social security act receives $86.26. under h. r. 3669. as originally introduced. she would receive $104. in the second place. i think we are all agreed upon the principle that in trying to provide this relief we must  jeopardize this fund. the gentleman from th carolina asked a question a few minutes ago as to the possibility of jeopardizing the fund. in our additional miity views we have taken the report of the railroad retirement board on the cost of the hall substitute. it is covered in the fourth and fifth paragraphs. we have tried to translate that in terms of dollars. the result is the estimated annual cost of the committee bill would be $720.790.000. the estimated annual income under a $4.900.000.000 payroll. the payroll they originally started with. would be $612.500.000. so you have an estimated deficit annually of $108.290.000. my colleagues and friends have indicated to you their conviction that something further must be done. but i say to you when we are confronted with a proposition that can and. i assert. would result in the complete insolvency of this fund in a little over 22 years. it would be a most serious step for you to take. what would be the result if we pass the original h. r. 3669. through the savings involved and the additional revenue provided. you would be assured that you would  jeopardize the solvency -of the retirement fund. the total estimated annual savings and increased revenue would be approximately $230.000.000. the committee received a responsible and. i think. reliable estimate that the end result would be an increase of the reserve to approximately $7.600.000.000 in between 15 to 20 years and from that the fund would be stabilized at a level of approximately $7.500.000.000. the original h. r. 3669 has been described as a hodgepodge. let me say to you that it is the work of a responsible committee of 18 standard railroad labor organizations over a period of more than a year. they are  coming in here with an overnight draft of legislation and asking you to accept it. they recognize what these changes will mean to them and to the people whom they represent. it is true that the four operating brotherhoods are opposed to the original h. r. 3669. and i recognize their sincerity. but i suggest to you that when you weigh all the evidence and arguments in reaching your final decision you should take into consideration that the people who have been working sincerely and intelligently on this bill for this long period of time and who have supported it and defended it ably and successfully before the committees of both the house and the senate are people who have the best interests of all railroad workers at heart. we have a right to rely upon their integrity. their honesty. their intelligence. and their kledge of the matters which they place before the committee and before this house. may i  briefly touch upon a few of the major differences between the original h. r. 3669 and the committee bill. h. r. 3669 would provide increases for annuitants and pensioners and benefits for aged wives of a total of 29 percent. the committee bill would provide increases for annuitants and pensioners of only 15 percent and provides benefits for aged wives. h. r. 3669 provides increases for survivors ranging from 60 percent to more than 75 percent. the committee bill would provide in.creases for survivors of only 331/3 percent and the end result would be a very large number receiving lower benefits than if the workers had been covered by social security. h. r. 3669 provides a fundamentally vital guaranty that beneficiary would receive less than if the worker had been under the socialsecurity system. the committee bill contains such guaranty. h. r. 3669 establishes. as our miity views attempt to explain. a sound system of financing these necessary increased benefits. the committee bill is entirely silent on the matter of additional financing but proposes to take the necessary funds from the existing reserve. although it has been asserted that the existing reserve itself is very close to the danger point under the present system of benefits. i recognize that in some quarters there is considerable opposition to any increase in the taxrate base. but i would like to point out that this increase is  only one so far as taxes are concerned but that it also would provide increased benefits of itself since those benefits would be based upon that same increase so far as computation is concerned. there is one incidental but very important provision in the original h. r. 3669. it has already been stated that a great many railroad workers continue work beyond the age 65 and that the average age of retirement is approximately 68. under existing law. such an individual does  get any credit in the computation of his annuity for any service he renders after the end of the year in which he becomes 65. he continues to pay the same taxes on his earnings as persons under 65 pay but receives credit for .that service. this seems to me to be completely unjustifiable and the original h. r. 3669 does provide that any such individual will receive the same credit for service after 65 that he  receives up to 65. the committee bill does hing abcut this. in conclusion. i would like to call your attention to a letter which has been delivered to all our offices today. it is possible that it has escaped the attention of many. consequently. and because it is a concise and stronig statement with reference to the two proposals before us. under the permission i received in the house. i wish to insert it at this point: american federation or labor. washington. 1. c.. october 3. 1951: to all members of congress: i am advised that amendments to the railroad retirement act will be ibzfe the house of representatives on thursday and friday of this week. as you k. a majority of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce reported the hall substitute for the original crosser bill. h. r. 669. this substitute seriously reduces the benefits provided in the original crosser bill. the crosser bill was carefully prepared by the best experts in this particular field. in cooperation with the 18 standard railway labor organizations affiliated with the a. f. of l. and with members of congress who are recognized as having comprehensive kledge of railroad retirement matters. the american federation of labor has officially endorsed the original crosser bill. h. r. 3669. which provides the minimum benefits necessary to meet the absolute needs of railroad workers. their. wives. widows and survivors. and at the same time maintain the financial soundness of the railroad retirement fund. conversely. the hall substitute reported by a majority of the committee fails in many important respects to provide necessary benefits. neither does the substitute proposal provide the savings and additional revenue required to maintain the retirement fund in a sound financial condition. therefore. in behalf of the 8.000.000 members of the a. f. of l. and particularly the 1.200.000 railroad workers who are members of the a. f. of l. and an additional 2.000.000 a. f. of l. members who have had railroad service and who have contributed to railroad retirement. i sincerely urge that each member of congress support congressman crosser in his efforts to restore the original provisions* of h. r. 3669 when this matter comes before the house. with best wishes. i am. sincerely yours.
. at this late hour i do  intend to use 5 minutes. i think the record. however. should be made entirely clear that the bill that has been offered eliminates a provision that is calculated by the proponents in the other body. as well as by those of us who supported the crosser bill. as involving $50.000.000 that you are going to throw away if you accept this amendment.  secondly. yesterday aftern in the other body the gentleman to whom the gentleman from arkansas referred said flatfootedly that this bill will cost 14.06 percent. that is at the bottom of the first column at page 13117 of the record. you are going to take a real chance on wrecking this proposal if you act hurriedly. there should be a disposition for all of us who want to do the right thing to at least see what is in this record and see what is in this bill that we are asked to vote upon at this time of night. we have idea. except as the gentleman has outlined it. and i agree. capably. of what it contains. i think we owe it to ourselves and to the railroad workers of this country. whatever unions they may belong to. that we take considerate and  hasty action. that we k we are acting in their best interests. and that we are individually and collectively measuring up to our responsibilities. we must recognize that in a very real gense we are acting as trustees of this fund. i hope there will be insistence on hasty action that we may all regret very much in the days to come.
i wonder if the gentleman would comment on the possibility of enforcing the law if the socalled hinshaw amendment were adopted. in other words. the problem arises in connection with that amendment. as i understand. that every single one of these operators who operates under lease would have to have inspectors inspect his truck on every one of its movements.
ial recommendations. the proposal for a higher wage base and resulting automatic increases in benefits under the railroad system would appear appropriate. its enactment is recommended. but it suggested that this increase be postponed until the similar increase is adopted for the social security act. as i stated before. i do  regard this postponement as necessary or valid. our committee did  so regard it and the railroad retirement board does  so regard it. let us in this session of congress enact this modest bill for the railroad workers. let us show all the standard railway labor unions that we are with them.  against them. in their efforts to improve the lot of 11/2 million railroad workers and their families.
i k that the hundreds of thousands of men and women who work on american railroads are gratified today because of the approval last night in the other body of h. r. 7840. the wolverton bill to amend the railroad retirement act and the railroad unemployment insurance act. it will be recalled that this bill passed the house on july 30 by a vote of 360 to 0. since that time. the able representatives of railroad brotherhoods. having the responsibility for seeking final action. have done excellent work and they are to be congratulated  only for their consistent and patient efforts but for their success of last night. i am confident that the bill will be signed by the president so that these much needed improvements in the railroad - retirement act and the railroad unemployment insurance act will become effective soon. i want to add that it seems most desirable to enact senate concurrent resolution 108 at this time which would make technical changes in order to bring the bill into accord with the recently enacted internal revenue code of 1954. it is my understanding that there is objection to enactment of this resolution on the part of those who have had the responsibility of developing and presenting these amendments.
i. too. assume that is the case. however i have been informed that it has  been carried out. am i correct in understanding that it would be the subcommittees and the full committees intention that the military should utilize to the greatest extent possible their own air service rather than place it on the ordinary civil carrier service.
 of the boston & maine. mr. william griffin. his counsel is reported to have told the icc examiner that mr. mcginnis could  be present because he was busy dealing personally with a service breakdown "that i make  the slightest effort to conceal or minimize." however. i believe that the traveling public is entitled to more than that and that the interstate commerce commission should be in a position as soon as possible to act promptly and vigorously in guaranteeing safe and adequate passenger service whenever and wherever responsible railroad officials can or will  provide it. the text of the bill follows: h. r. 8359 a bill to amend the interstate commerce act to require railroads to furnish adequate passenger service be it enacted. etc.. that section 1 of part i of the interstate commerce act is amended by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph: "(4/2) it shall be the duty of every common carrier by railroad subject to this part to render safe and adequate passenger service (including commutation service). the commission may establish reasonable rules. regulations. and practices with respect to passenger service by common carrier by railroad subject to this part. and the penalties and other sanctions for observance of such rules. regulations. or practices." sec. 2. the amendment made by this act shall take effect on the first day of the first month which begins more than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act.
the gentleman referred. and i k fairly. to the western airline case. i examined the records in that case. is it  a fact that the western airlines co. received a route and never flew it. then they sold it to united airlines and they had approximately $1.5 million or $2 million of profit and involved in this some of the money was for the sale of slot machines.
. house bill 4036. if enacted. would accomplish this result: in the district of columbia at the pre6ent time it is provided that if a person is convicted of driving while. intoxicated. or of leaving the scene of an automobile accident without making his identity kn. before he can secure a license to drive again he must show his financial responsibility. that provision. however. does  apply in the case of a conviction for reckless driving. this bill provides that if a person is convicted of reckless driving as the result of which personal injury is brought about. the financialresponsibility law will apply to him. so that before he can obtain a license to continue driving he also must make a showing that he has sufficient financial responsibility to meet the requirements of the act. the act calls for an insurance policy covering an injury in the amount of $5.000. for each person. or a total of $10.000 for one or more persons in any one accident. or $1.000 damage toproperty. that can be met either by an insurance policy or by a bond. or by a cash deposit. so the net effect of this bill will be that hereafter. if a person is convicted either of driving while under the influence of liquor or of leaving the scene of an automobile accident in which a personal injury occurred without identifying himself or. under the proposed new act. is convicted of reckless driving. he must show his financial responsibility and provide insurance before he can secure a license to continue driving. the bill has already been passed by the house and has been approved by the committee on the district of columbia.
. this bill contains two amendments to the act which provided for the establishment of the union station in the district of columbia. when that bill was enacted it contained section 10. which provided that in the case of any streets or highways within the district of columbia which crossed any line of steam railroad the district of columbia would have to eliminate the grade crossings and provide for a separation of the grades at the cost of the district of columbia. at that time every line that went into the depot was a steam railroad.  there are some electrified lines. the first amendment is to eliminate the word "steam." and make that requirement apply to any line of railroad other than a street railway. so that if one of these electrified lines crosses a street it shall be requisite that the district of columbia shall separate the grades as much as if it were a steam line. that really is merely a technical amendment to cover developments in transportation. the second amendment is the important one. there are also a number of spur tracks and switch tracks which are used perhaps once a day. and to apply this provision to such spur tracks and switch tracks would. of course. involve an expenditure far out of proportion to the amount of benefit to the public which would result from the separation of the grades. it seems that at the present time there are a number of such tracks in operation as grade crossings. and there have been particular extensions in recent years. but . with the development of the district. it is becoming necessary to make use of some spur tracks across mi streets where they have  been in use before. therefore it is proposed to add this clause: provided. however. that hing herein contained shall require the location. construction. or maintenance of any such street or highway under or above any spur. industrial. switching. or side track. or branch line of any railroad unless the commissioners of the district of columbia shall find- the same 13 necessary in the public safety. for example. one of the spur tracks immediately under consideration is used perhaps once a day. to separate the grades would cost something like one or two hundred thousand dollars. there are several other grade crossings on the present spur tracks. this amendment eliminates the necessity for separating the grades unless the district commissioners find it to be necessary in the interest of public safety.
. senate joint resolution 65 dealt with the authorization of a ship of canadian registry to travel between cleveland. ohio. and milwaukee. wis.. in connection with the american legion convention to be held in milwaukee this year. it was amended in the house of representatives in a mi manner. with the consent of the" senator from th carolina. chairman of the committee on commerce. i move that the senate concur in the amendments of the house of representatives.
i assume the question was referred to him by the district attorneys office whether the f. b. i. should investigate the case. a report was made pointing out that it was quite true that under the circumstances the road was  built across the senators estate. and the yacht basin was  built on the senators estate. but that the road was very close to the senators estate. and the yacht basin was built very close to the senators estate. therefore. he had to decide the question whether under the circumstances it would be appropriate to prosecute a case in which. under the circumstances. a jury might very well find that the charges might have arisen because of a misunderstanding. therefore. as so often happens. the prosecuting officer. under his duty to the public. had to decide whether he should prosecute under those circumstances. and it seems to me to be appropriate to rise. rather than to remain silent. and state. as i did do in the subcommittee. that in my judgment the attorney general was within his rights when he decined to prosecute. and in stating the grounds as he did state them under the circumstances.
 issued such a proclamation in 1939. proclaiming august 19 of each year as national aviation day. i ask  to have placed in the body of the record his proclamation. issued on july 25. 1939. and which applies to us today.
. on behalf of the committee on the district of columbia i report back without amendment house bill 5682. to amend an act to provide for a union railroad station in .the district of columbia. and for other purposes. and i submit a report ( 687) thereon. i give ice that i shall ask for the early consideration of tle bill by the senate. inasmuch as it provides for additional track facilities at the union depot to care for the christmas mail.
. last monday. at the request of the chairman of the committee on the district of columbia. the senator from nevada . who could  be here. i reported house bill 5682. to amend an act to provide for a union railroad station in the district of columbia. and for other purposes. and gave ice that because of the urgency of the matter involved i should like to call up the bill by unanimous consent for action at an early date. therefore. if there is  objection. i should like to ask at this time for the consideration of the bill.
i should say that it. together with theexisting resources and the ordinary federal aid that comes to the district as it does to other states. is adequate  only for the present needs but to carry out. so far as we can  see under the emergency. the requirements of the district due to its increased traffic. i may add the statement. which i think is pertinent in the consideration of the bill. that the district of colum bii has had the 2cent tax since 1924. the needs ofthe district for improved highway conditions have increased with the increased poliulation and volume of traffic. but the district has  increased its gasoline tax. if it had done so about 7 years ago. it would havemet the need for imprbved freeway and modified freeway construction which is necessary to take care of the increased volume that comes with increased traffic.. therefore. the condition today is that the people of the district are about 7 years behind in their construction program. the proposed increase in the gasoline tax would enable .them to catch up with that program over a 10year period.
that is exactly what is contemplated under this measure. the district of columbia has made one of the best surveys of its engineering requirements that has been made in the united states. it was prepared by the department of highways of the district of columbia from. facts gathered by it and also by the united states public roads administration and the district of columbia department of vehicles and traffic.. the result of such surveys is the recommendation that the improvements that should have been made and are  needed constitute a program that will cost about $35.000.000. there is  available toward that program out of the present income. without any increased tax. about $1.700.000 a year.
it comes from the. present highway fund. and the present highway fund is made up primarily from gasoline taxes. motorvehicle fees. and certain assessments. as they are called.  from the general fund. money of the united states has been placed in the highway fund since 1937. it has been carried by district funds since that date. in fact. it has so carried since 1934. in the larger part.
the. program as sup. ported by the committee on the district of columbia is based upon a survey made by the united states public roads administration. and the director of highways of the district. approved by the district commissioners. i believe that it provides for all that can be done in tearing up the roads within a given time so. that the improvements can be completed in a 10year period. . i think. that. will meet the needs suggested by the senator from virginia as well as it can be done. as the bill  stands before the senate. with th6 amendments that have been agreed to. it stands as a bill for a 1cent increase in the gasoline tax for the period from 1942 to june 30. 1951. it is in that shape before the senate. of course open to further amendment. but it is  in precisely the shape in which the committee on the district of columbia recommended its passage.
. the amendment just agreed to is formal in character. however. since a question was raised by the senator from connecticut . it should be said that the amendment relates to the disposal of property which might be acquired under the act for parking purposes in the district of columbia. and as amended the bill provides  only as the bill originally did. that before the property can be disposed of the approval of the parking agency must be obtained. but the district must also go through the regular procedure for the disposal of any real property of the district of columbia. that is to say. the disposal must be aproved by the national capital park and planning commission and by the commissioners.
. i desire to make a brief statement as to the purposes of the bill itself. it has long been recognized that probably the most unique difficulty in connection with the traffic problem in the district of columbia is its lack of parking facilities. congress recently passed a bill increasing the gasoline tax in the district of columbia by an amount which will raise one and onehalf million dollars a year. this. with some federal funds to be used on certain federal projects. will enable the district to overcome many of its engineering difficulties in meeting the traffic problem. parking is aher phase of that same problem. it can be met merely by engineering. this bill will put into effect a recommendation made by the commissioners of the district. and also by the highway director. captain whitehurst. who made the report on the engineering features. this bill provides in substance that there shall be a separate parking agency appointed by the district commissioners. responsible to them. that agency shall consist of seven members. one to be drawn from the federal works agency. which includes the united states highway administration. one to be .drawn from the national park service. which controls the parks in the district. one to be drawn from the department of vehicles and traffic of the district. and the other four to be appointed at large. and responsible to the commissioners. e of them shall receive a compensation greater than $500 a year. the agency shall have authority. subject to the commissioners. and limited by the appropriations from congress. to deal with the parking problem on a fundamental and longview basis. the agency will have authority to control the placing and the purchasing of parking meters. it also will have authority. subject to the approval of the commissioners and the appropriations of congress. to purchase land and to operate offstreet parking spaces. for example. there are socalled marginal or fringe parking spaces. which might be purchased in the outlying area of the city withthe view of having people drive as far as such places and park there. and then proceed downtown by means of mass transportation. this measure does  appropriate the money for that purpose. it does  specifically authorize the doing of what i have just described. but it creates an agency which i believe will be competent to give this subject the kind of attention it must have if we are to reach an intelligent solution of the parking problem in washington. the danger is that with one having responsibility for studying parking on a longview constructive basis. the matter will be neglected. and hing of permanent value will be done about it. i believe this bill provides a sound way to approach the question. and in the meantime it places responsibility on an agency to control current parking problems. while also studying the longview problem. the. presiding officer. the question is on the engrossment and the third reading of the bill. the bill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. read the third time. and passed. as follows: be it enacted. etc.. that it is hereby declared that the free circulation of traffic of al kinds through the highways of the district is necessary to the health. safety. and general welfare of the public. whether residing in said district. or traveling to. through. or from said district in the course of lawful pursuits. that in recent years the greatly increased use by the public of motor vehicles of all kinds has caused serious traffic congestion on the highways of the district. that the parking of motor vehicles on the highways of the district has contributed to this congestion to such an extent as to interfere seriously with the primary use of such highways for the movement of traffic. that such parking prevents the free circulation of traffic in. through. and from said district. impedes rapid .and effective fighting of fires and the disposition of police forces in the district. threatens irreparable loss in valuations of property in the district. which can longer be readily reached by vehicular traffic. and endangers the health. safety. and welfare of the general public. that this parking. nuisance can be reduced by providing sufficient offstreet parking facilities conveniently located in the several residential. commercial. industrial. and governmental areas of the district. that adequate offstreet parking facilities have  been provided by private enterprise. that it may be necessary to supplement private parking spaces by offstreet parking facilities provided by public undertaking. and that the enactment of this act. as well as the use of land for the purposes set forth in this act. is hereby declared to be a public necessity. sec. 2. that. when used in this act. unless the context indicates otherwisethe term "district" means the district of columbia. the term "commissioners" means the commissioners of the district of columbia. the term "agency" means the motor vehicle parking agency created in section 4 of this act. the term "parking facilities" means one or more public offstreet parking areas for motor vehicles. including necessary structures. sec. 3. the commissioners. within the limits of appropriations by congress therefor. are authorized to exercise all powers necessary and convenient to carry out the purposes of this act. the said purposes being hereby declared to be the acquisition. creation. and operation. in any manner hereinafter provided. under public regulation. of public offstreet parking facilities in the district as a necessary incident to insuring in the public interest the free circulation of traffic in and through said district. such powers shall include. but shall  be limited to. the powers hereinafter enumerated: (a) the poiver to acquire any property. real or personal. or any interest therein. by purchase. lease. gift. bequest. devise. or grant. or by condemnation under the provisions of sections 483 to 491. inclusive. of chapter xv. as amended. of the code of law for the district of columbia. approved march 3. 1901 (31 stat. 12651266) in any area of the district as to which the agency shall have made a determination that public parking facilities are necessary or expedient. before acquiring any area for parking facilities the commissioners shall request the national capital park and planning commission for its recommendations and it shall be the duty of said commission to report thereon within 30 days of such request. (b) the power to undertake. by contract or otherwise. the clearance and improvement of any such property as well as the construction. establishment. reconstruction. alteration. repair. maintenance. and operation thereon of parking facilities. to contract. by lease or otherwise. with competitive bidding. with any individual. firm. association. or corporation. private or public. for the operation of any parking facilities for such period.  exceeding 5 years. as the commissioners shall determine. and to terminate. without prior ice. any contract in the event of any failure or omission of any party thereto to observe or enforce the rules or schedules of rates made under authority of paragraph (d) of this section. (c) the power to sell. exchange. transfer. or assign any property. real or personal. or any interest therein. acquired under authority of this act. whether or  improved: provided. that such action shall be in accordance with the general law covering the disposal of such property by the district of columbia: provided further. that the agency shall have first determined such property to be longer necessary for the purposes of this act. (d) the power to establish and from time to time to revise. with or without public hearings. uniform schedules of rates to be charged for use of space in each such parking facility: to provide rate differentials between said parking facilities for such reasons as the amount of space occupied. the location of the facility. and other reasonable differences. and to prescribe and promulgate such rules and regulations for the carrying out of the provisions of this act as may be necessary to keep said parking facilities subject at all times to public regulation. and to insure the maintenance and operation of such parklng facilities in a clean and orderly manner and in such a manner as to provide efficient and adequate service to the public. the rates to be charged for parking of motor vehicles within said parking facilities shall be fixed at the lowest possible rates. consistent with the achievement of the purposes of this act. that will defray the cost of maintaining. operating. and administering the parking facilities. liquidate within such time as the commissioners shall determine the cost of acquiring and improving the required property for parkingfacility purposes. and provide for the acquisition and improvement of other necessary parking facilities. but without any purpose of obtaining for the district any profit or surplus revenue from the operation of said parking facilities. there shall be discrimination in rates or privileges among the members of the public using said parking facilities. (e) the power to secure and install mechanical parking meters or parking devices on the streets. avenues. roads. highways. and other public spaces in the district under the jurisdiction and control of the said commissioners. in additiol. to those mechanical parking meters and devices installed pursuant to the authority conferred on the said commissioners by section 11 of the district of columbia appropriation act. 1939. approved april 4. 1938 (52 stat. 192). such meters or devices to be located at such points as the commissioners may determine. and the said commissioners are authorized and empowered to make and enforce rules and regulations for the control of parking of vehicles on such streets. avenues. roads. highways. and other public spaces. and as an aid to such regulation and control of the parking of vehicles the commissioners may prescribe fees for the parking of vehicles where meters or devices are installed. sec. 4 there is hereby created a motorvehicle parking agency consisting of seven members. namely. a representative of the federal works agency. to be designated by the administrator thereof. a representative of the national park service. to be designated by the secretary of the interior. a representative of the -department of vehicles and traffic of the district. to be designated by the commissioners. and four other members. each of whom shall have been a bona fide resident of the district for at least 3 years immediately preceding his appointment. to be appointed by the commissioners. without regard to race or creed. the secretary of the interior. the federal works administrator. and the commissioners may from time to time. in their discretion. change their respective designates in office. and they shall name new designates to fill any vacancies caused by the death. resignation. or other inability to serve. of their respective designates in office. the terms of the other four members of the agency shall be 4 years each. except that in the case of the initial appointments. one shall be for a term of 1 year. one for a term of 2 years. and one for a term of 3 years. in the case of any vacancy in the position of the members appointed for definite terms the same shall be filled for the remainder of the term. the said agency shall perform the duties imposed upon it by this act and such other duties as the commissioners may assign to it. the commissioners are authorized to delegate to the agency any or all of the powers vested in the said commissioners by this act. except the powers set forth in paragraphs lettered (a) and (c) in section 1 of this act. sec. 5. parking facilities may be established in any section or portion of the district except that parking facilities shall be established upon any property zoned residential without the approval of the zoning commission of the district. the zoning commission may grant such approval only after public ice and hearing in accordance with section 3 of the act entitled "an act providing for the zoning of the district of columbia and the regulation of the location. height. bulk. and uses of buildings and other structures and of the uses of land in the district of columbia. and for other purposes." approved june 20. 1938. sec. 6. the national capital park and planning commission and the highway planning survey unit shall make available such records and factual data and make such additional surveys as the commissioners or the agency may deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this act. sec. 7. all fees and other moneys collectcd under this act. including all fees collected pursuant to section 11 of the district of columbia appropriation act. 1939. approved april 4. 1938 (52 stat. 192). and all moneys derived from the sale or assignment of any property. real or personal. shall be deposited in a special account in the treasury of the united states entirely to the credit of the district of columbia and shall be appropriated and used solely and exclusively for the purposes set forth in this act. including the reimbursement of the highway fund of the district for any moneys advanced therefrom to carry out the purposes of this act. sec. 8. appropriations from the highway fund of the district are hereby authorized to carry out the provisions of this act for the fiscal year ending june 30. 1942. and thereafter the commissioners are authorized and directed to include in their annual estimates such amounts as may be required from said highway fund and the fund created by this act for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act. including the payment of salaries and necessary administrative expenses. the commissioners are authorized to employ a director and such other personal services as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this act. and the salaries of such employees. other than members of said agency. are to be fixed in accordance with the provisions of the classification act of 1923. as amended. the commissioners shall fix the compensation of the members of said agency without reference to the provisions of the classification act: provided. however. that the compensation of any member shall  exceed $500 per annum: and provided further. that compensation for services as a member of such agency shall be provided for any member who holds a salaried public office or position in the district of columbia or the federal governments. sec. 9. if any provision of this act. or the application thereof to any person or circumstances. shall be held invalid. the validity of the remainder of the act and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall  be affected thereby. sec. 10. this act may be cited as the "district of columbia motor vehicle parking facility act of 1942."
in order to complete the picture. i should like to ask the senator whether he has any comment to make on the proposal for a large pipe line from the oil fields to the eastern border. made at least twice in the past. i believe. and rejected because it was felt there was  sufficient steel available for that purpose. i understand it is  again being proposed. and therefore i take it that the steel for such a pipe line would come in competition with the steel the senator has recommended be used for the construction of additional freight cars. does the senator have an opinion on that point.
if i may press the point a little further. as a war measure. which is the problem confronting us . as i understand. the issue is determined on whether steel is available for the pipe line. plus the fact that it may take a longer time to build the pipe line than it would take t6 build the corresponding number of freight cars. therefore the issue is. does the steel for the pipe line have priority over the steel for freight cars. and if so. when can we get the oil through the pipe line. that is the problem involved. which will be important during the next year and a half.
. this bill was reported to the senate by the junior senator from michigan who is   present. he -was also the chairman of the subcommittee which reported favorably on the bill in its original form. as i served both on the subcommittee and on the general committee that joined in the report. i feel that a word should be said from the point of view of the commiteee. this matter comes within the jurisdicdiction of the united states. of course. under its right to pass upon any bridge which possibly might interfere with navigation. if it would  interfere with navigation. then the jurisdiction of the united states. technically. would stop at that point. and we would consent to the construction of the bridge. as the bill came before the committee. it was rather a simple one. two states. represented by their separate highway commissions. wished to erect an important bridge on a main highway. they asked for the permission of the united states. we held hearings in the committee. the opposition came solely from the city of hudson. there seemed to be interference with navigation such as would justify a refusal to permit the bridge to be built by the states. the city of hudson. however. does have a bridge nearby. it has had it for many years. and it is charging tolls over that bridge. it is interesting to e that  only has the city recouped to itself its expenditure in buying the bridge. in the first instance. but has recouped itself about five times over. and  regards the bridge as an important asset in paying the ordinary operating expenses of the city. therefore. there does  arise on the part of the federal government the obligation to protect the city against loss of an original capital investment. the federal government. the committee felt. would be going far out of its way to refuse to grant permission for this state bridge across the river in order that the city might continue to collect tolls on its bridge. the committee asked the representatives of the state and the representatives of the city to hold a special conference to see if they could  agree upon some joint use for the old bridge and work out some way by which it could be used for this purpose. when the conference was held. the city and state officials were unable to reach an agreement. it then came to the committee of the congress. and the senate committee voted to grant permission for this new state bridge. i do  recall that the amendment  offered was presented when the bill was before the committee. but it seems to me to be clear that we would  be justified in amending the bill so as to require the payment to the city of hudson of "fair value" for this bridge. even though the site of the bridge should  be used for the new bridge. particularly in view of the fact that fair value might possibly be computed upon the capital which would produce a certain annual income. as in the case of the toll bridge which  stands. it seems to me. therefore. to be consistent with the recommendation of the committee which heard this matter fully that the committee would be opposed to the proposed condition being added to the bill as recommended by the committee in the first instance.
. it has been my privilege to serve for the past several months as a member of the committee investigating the national defense program. i wish to take this occasion to express my appreciation of the report which has been submitted today by the chairman of the committee. the able junior senator from missouri . i have also served on the subcommittee on aviation and light metals. under the chairmanship of the senator from washington . both the committees have been handled in an extremely partisan. political. businesslike manner. i wish to call attention to the recommendations which were made today by the general committee on the subject of rubber. steel. airplanes. tank lighters. and unity of command. many other subjects have been investigated by those committees. and there are many other things which could be said. but because of the manner in which the committee has concentrated on the matters reported on.  for political purposes. but with a cooperative attitude in support of the war. and in a constructive manner rather than a destructive one. i wish most heartily to endorse the report as presented today.
but during the hearing on our bill there was some testimony to the effect that the bill which was being considered in the committee on post offices and post roads discriminated in favor of the postoffice employees. and that is what i wish to clear up. under our general bill for the civil service. senate bill 635. which the committee just voted on this morning. it is provided that in cases where there is overtime readily computable. there shall be a fiat increase of $300 a year for employees. then. in cases in which overtime can be computed. there will be time and a half for overtime allowed for the employees work with a guaranteed minimum of $300 a year. or $25 a month for such overtime. and in order to give a basis for the computation of overtime an employees daily rate shall be one threehundredandsixtieth of his annual pay. this is practically the same rate that is  being used under the temporary overtime bill. passed last december and expiring april 30.
i thank the senator from colorado for his contribution. . if the war had ended in europe a month or two ago. or if it should end in europe today or tomorrow. neitlor industry. labor. agriculture.  our government. including the senate of. the united states. would be ready for the emergency. we should already have developed our work on this throughout america to a greater extent than we have done so. it is  too late to do better. but there is time to be lost. in whatever we do in industry. labor. agriculture. or the government. including the senate of the united states. to plan and prepare for the postwar period. we must do it in a way that will bind our nation together and will bind ourselves and our allies together in fighting the war. to do otherwise would be to become our own enemies. therefore. it remains for us to find ways of doing this work that will strengthen. rather than weaken. our military efforts. this can be done by greater cooperation within america. between industry. labor. agriculture. and government. if we will only have greater faith in each other and work together. our nation will be stronger for it. and the allied cause will be stronger for it. the senate can contribute to it by clarifying its postwar foreign policies. this avoids confusion and gives leadership. it substitutes directness for indirection. it provides positive progress in place of rather hesitant drift. it seems to me. the best way to do this  will be to agree to the pending clarifying amendment proposed by the 14 senators. and to adopt by an overwhelming vote the resolution as amended. therefore. we. must fight our way across the oneway bridge to military victory. general. however. would plan to capture a bridge merely so as to seize the bridgehead on the other side. he would capture it so as to go somewhere from the other side. before he captured it. he would plan where and how he would go beyond it. so in this instance. we must plan where we shall go in peace. after victory on the battlefield. i see three roads to lasting peace. each calls for the careful planning and preparation of our advance along it. the first is the road to postwar internal stability within the united states. the second is the road to postwar regional stability within the western hemisphere. the third is the road to postwar worldwide stability. a separate examination of each of these three roads will demonstrate the benefits that can flow from planning and preparing our advance along them.
the senator from tennessee has raised a historically interesting point which takes us back to the days of state canals. the canal to which the senator from tennessee has referred was the result of the early canalization of the beaver river. such a canal was operated from about 1834 to 1875. there were canals on many neighboring streams. when the railroads came in they provided a better system of transportation than could be afforded by the canal under the conditions then existing. and the improvement in the natural water course which was made at that time was only slight. since then many things have taken place. the railroads supplied facilities in the area affected by the canal. and originally their rates were on what is kn as an equalized basis. so that every shipper within a wide area received .the benefits of an equal rate. more recently. however. instead of maintaining the equalized rate the railroads have differ-. entiated between various points on the railroads. and instead of adjusting the rates on the basis of the cost involved the rates were made what the traffic would bear.- this has brought about extraordinary discrimination on the part of the railroads. therefore the matter is  before congress. and because of the extraordinarily high railroad rates charged to shippers today. the canalization of the river would result in providing much cheaper transportation. the old canal was one of the old state canals abandoned when the railroads came into the area in about 1875.
without getting into a bypass in this discussion. i wish to emphasize that we can go all the way through without going part way first. and therefore the first part must be navigable. finally. on this particular matter. in view of the language of the act of august 30. i935. which approved. and still stands as approving. the beavermahoning short canal as a federal project. to continue to lake erie at or near ashtabula. ohio. subject to the final approval of the whole project from the ohio river to lake erie by the board of engineers for rivers and harbors. it is important to see exactly what that board of engineers did say. because the board of engineers having approved it. its action has really fitted in completely with the action of congress already taken in 1935 expressly on the subject. i therefore turn to the action of the board of engineers in accordance with that express recommendation and direction of the congress. on page 17 of house document  178. which contains the report of the board of engineers. we find these important statements bearing on the project  before us. the board of engineers finds. in paragraph 11: the first step of the work should consist of the improvement of the beavermahoning rivers as described in house document  277. seventythird congress. second session. modified as proposed by the present plans. at an estimated construction cost of $38.500.000 to the united states and $3.900.000 to local interests. the prospective traffic and savings for this section justify its construction at the present time with one lock 56 by 720 feet at each lift. but work should be started until local interests. have furnished rightsofway for the through canal as proposed hereafter. the extension of the waterway. in part or in full. to lake erie should be undertaken only if found advisable after the first section to struthers has been opened to traffic and after a further determination of ecoic advisability. taking into consideration changes that result from the work already finished. and after the chief of engineers -has been assured that adequate terminals will be constructed by local interests. there is a clear segregation of the first step from the rest. in paragraph 12. the board of engineers stated: improvement of the beaver and mahoning rivers was authorized in the river and harbor act approved august 30. 1935. as follows: "beaver and mahoning rivers. pa. and ohio. of the width and depth provided in house document  277. seventythird congress. as a federal project and to continue to lake erie at or near ashtabula. ohio. subject to the final approval of the whole project for the ohio river to lake erie by the board of engineers for rivers and harbors." the board then continued as follows: the board  concludes that the whole project from the ohio river to lake erie. with certain modifications of the plans proposed in house document  277. seventythird congress. second session. is ecoically justified. because of the large expenditure required for the project and in order that advantage may be taken of changes in ecoic conditions and of adjustments in transportation charges. the board bel ves that construction should be undertaken in several steps as found advisable by the chief of engineers. that somewhat unusual requirements for local cooperation are justified. and. that the federal government should pay for the reconstruction of existing railroadcompany bridges spanning the beaver and mahoning rivers. to carry out the work in accordance with these conditions it is necessary to secure additional authority from congress. because of that statement by the board of engineers. we are here endeavoring to secure the additional consent of congress to conform to the specific recommendation of the board. in paragraph 13 the board continued as follows: the board therefore recommends stepbystep construction of the waterway extending from the ohio river through the beaver. mahoning. and grand river valleys to lake erie. with minimum depth of 12 feet and generally 250 feet wide (minimum width 200 feet). at a cost to the united states of about $207.000.000 for construction and $1.730.000 annually for maintenance and operation. the exact alinement. .location. program of construction. and details of design of all structures to be left to the decision of the chief of engineers: subject to the condition that before any construction on any part of the improvement is undertaken. local interests shall(a) furnish free of cost to the united states title to all lands required for rightsofway in and south of the city of warren. (b) agree to furnish free of cost to the united states suitable spoildisposal areas for initial work and for subsequent maintenance as required for the section in and south of warren. (c) agree to hold and save the united states free from claims for damages in connection with existing water rights for power development and other purposes. and for other damages that may occur due to construction of the waterway. (d) agree to operate milton reservoir under the supervision of the chief of engineers for the primary purpose of increasing the low flow in the interest of navigation. (e) agree to make at their expense alterations. as required. of existing highway and steel company bridges spanuing the beaver and mahoning rivers. and necessary road changes in connection therewith. (f) agree to maintain at their expense al new public roadways. and maintain and operate all rebuilt and new bridges constructed incident to the improvement. (g). agree to make at their expense alterations as required in all sewer. water supply. and drainage facilities. (h) agree to provide at their own expense. and as required. suitable and adequate lake and canal terminals. and dredged harbor areas adjacent thereto shoreward of channel or harbor lines. in accordance with plans approved by the chief of engineers and lhe secretary of war. finally. following the list of local requirements. the board said thatthe board further recommends that in view of the extraordinary enlargement of the river channels. required to provide a suitfbe through waterway. the federal government pay the cost. as determined by the chief of engineers. that is finally involved in making necessary changes in rxisting railroad company crossings. and track adjustments in connection therewith. it is also important to e that at this point express approval is giverl by the chief of engineers himself. apart from the board. maj. g~n. j. l. schley. in his report of may 23. 1939. as bearing specifically upon the short canal as a separate step justifiable in and of itself. apart from the final decision upon the completion of the through canal. made a statement. his statement appears on page 10 of house document  178. and is material and important. in paragraph 24 of the statement general schley said: because of the large e.::penditure required for the project and in order that advantage may be taken of changes in ecoic conditions and of adjustments in transportation charges. the board lelieves that its constiuction should be untertzken in several steps. the first step consisting of the improvement of the beaver and mahoning rivers as described in house document  277. seventythird congress. second session. with modifications as proposed by the present plans. at an estimated construction cost of $38.500.000 to the federal government and $3.900.000 to the local interests. then he added: extension of the waterway. in part or in full. to lake erie should be undertaken only if found advisable after further determination of ecoic advisability. taking into consideration rate adjustments and changes that result from the work already finished. and after the chief of engineers has been assured that adequate terminals will be constructed by local interests. 26. i concur with the board that the pittsburghashtabula route is the best route for a waterway between lake erie and the ohio river. and that the savings in transportation charges and other benefits are sufficient to warrant the adoption of the project at this time. 27. i also concur with the board that construction. if authorized. should start with the canalization of the beaver and mahoning rivers to struthers. this part of the proposed project is ecoically justified as an independent improvement and as such would become an important arm of the ohio river waterway system. the commerce available consists largely of bitumis coal which  moves from points in the ohio river basin by barge to. and near. the mouth of the beaver river. where it is transferred to rail lines for a short haul to points in the youngstown area. after the construction of this section of the waterway the movements could be completed by barge with a considerable saving in transfer and linehaul costs. 28. the through project to lake erie will save the shippers an average of 72 cents per ton in transportation charges on the prospective commerce. estimated as 28.000.000 tons per year. the total federal and federal costs resulting from the construction of the project would amount to a cost of 43 cents per ton. leaving a net average saving of 29 cents per ton. it seems important to call attention to the fact that if the waterway is constructed the railroads which  carry this commerce would have to meet a competitive water rate averaging 72 cents per ton below the present rail rates. or lose a large volume of traffic and revenue. while a permanent reduction in rail charges averaging 29 cents per ton. if put into effect . prior to constructio the through waterway. would eliminate the justification for the * project. since it is impossible to determine at this time the extent and effect of future possible railrate reductions it is advisable that the completion of the waterway from struthers to lake erie* in part. or in full. be undertaken only after the section to struthers has been opened to traffic and after a further finding by the chief of engineers of ecoic justification. taking into consideration trends in ecoic conditions. rate adjustments. and changes that result from the work already finished. it is advisable that the through project be authorized in accordance with the plans outlined by the board and that the program of construction be left to the decision of the chief of engineers and the approval of the secretary of war. 29. i therefore recommend the construction of a waterway extending from the ohio river through the beaver. mahoning. and grand river valleys to lake erie with minimum depth of 12 feet and generally 250 feet wide (minimum width 200 feet). at an estimated cost to the united states of $207.257.000 for construction and $1.730.000 annually for maintenance and .operation. the exact alinement. locatidn. program of construction. and details of* design of all structures to be left to the decision of the chief of engineers. subject to the condition that before any construction work on any part of the improvement is undertaken. local interests shall(a) furnish free of cost to the united states title to all lands required for rightsofway in and south of the city of warren. (b) agree to furnish free of cost to the united states suitable spoildisposal areas for initial work and for subsequent maintenance as required for the section in and south of warren. (c) agree to hold and save the united states free from claims for damages in connection with existing water rights for power development and other purposes. and for other damages that may occur due to construction of the waterway. (d) agree to operate milton reservoir under the supervision of the chief of engineers for the primary purpose of increasing the low flow in the interest of navigation. (e) agree to make at their expense alterations. as required. of existing highway and steel company bridges spanning the beaver and mahoning rivers. and necessary road changes in connection therewith. (f) agree to maintain at their expense all new public roadways. to maintain and operate at their expense all rebuilt and new highway and steel company bridges. and to assume the cost of maintenance and operation of all new railroad company bridges. constructed incident to the improvement. (g) agree to make at their expense alterations. as required. in all sewer. water supply. and drainage facilities. (h) agree to provide at their own expense. and as required. suitable and adequate lake and canal terminals. and dredged harbor areas adjacent thereto shoreward of channel or harbor lines. in accordance with plans approved by the chief of engineers and the secretary of war. i further recommend that in view of the extraordinary enlargement of the river channels. required to provide a suitable through waterway. the federal government pay the cost. as determied by the chief of engineers. that is finally involved in making necessary changes in existing railroad company crossings. and track adjustments in connection therewith. there then follows an interesting side development of importance in the history of this matter. it is contained in a letter from frederic a. dela chairman of the advisory committee of the national resources committee. to the president of the united states. written on february 16. 1939. the letter will be found on pages 17 and 18 preceding the report from which i have just been reading. in house document  178. it reads in part as follows: in view of (1) the previous general authorization for the project. (2) the possibility of delaying the allotment of funds for the project for some time after a perfecting authorization may be made. and (3) the illhumored protest which almost certainly would greet any attempt to delay congressional consideration of such authorization. our advisory committee suggests that the report be transmitted to the congress without comment by you. however. the committee recommends that you consider taking the following action at that time: 1. request the secretary of war to inform you before any allotments are made for actual construction of the project. if and when it is authorized in its modified form. that refers to the full through canal. 2.this is of special importance hererequest the interstate commerce commission to review the report. when printed. in order to determine the need for the project in relation to present rail and highway facilities and to the effect which the construction of the project would have on the operations of rail and motor carriers *. * *. there is a possibility. of course. that the commission may  wish to make this study and may suggest that the investigation involved is beyond their authority. it seems to us. however. that the question. if it arises. might well be faced on an important case like that of the proposed beavermahoning canal involving over $200.000.000. the president. in transmitting the report to the chairman of the interstate commerce commission. followed that recommendation. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed at this point in the record the letter from franklin delaroosevelt to the chairman of the interstate commerce commission. dated february 16. 1939. appearing at page 15 of house document  178. carrying out that recommendation.
because there does  seem to be the same urgency for that as exists for the shorter canal. controversy has been raised from time to time respecting the two proposals. i am urging the shorter canal on the basis of the recomendatlon of the board of engineers. and in any event this is a valuable contribution to a through canal. and it is a valuable contribution independent of it. on its own feet. there may well be a valuable contribution. as pointed out by the interstate commerce commission. if there is actual water competition with rail transportation. which might make the high charge for the railroad transportation longer justifiable. and even though the railroads have  yet offered to do so heretofore. they might then reduce their rates in the light of that actual competition.
madam president. i  direct my attention to the demonstrated benefits which would be experienced from operation of the proposed canal. in the engineers report of 1934. at pages 12 to 14. the board of engineers states that the saving would be $3.120.400. that sum represents the difference between railroad costs and water transportation costs. but i wish to emphasize that  only would that be the saving as is shown by the computation. but that it is an extremely conservative one. in reaching the conclusion set forth in the report. separate public hearings were held before the district engineer. division engineer. and the board of engineers. they also sent representatives into the field who carefully checked the basis for each estimate. they excluded any shipments by shippers who have expressed opposition to the canal. they also limited their estimates to instances where a saving of at least 20 percent would be disclosed. these eliminated the close questions or doubtful cases. madam president. at the end of the pamphlet which has been placed on the desks of senators there are shown several pages in detail on which these savings are based. comparisons are made between the estimates made by various people. the result is a conservative one. for example. in the estimate of the tonnage which would be moved by the canal. the youngstown chamber of commerce estimated 9.180.700 tons of freight. the united states district engineer estimated 5.605.000 tons. colonel barden. who made an independent investigation. estimated 6.350.000 tons. in order to be conservative. the board of engineers made an estimate far below that of the youngstown chamber of commerceeven below that of the independent investigatorand estimated the amount to be 5.970.000. or approximately 6.000.000 tons. which. under the circumstances. is an extremely conservative estimate. i again refer to the comment made by the interstate commerce commission that the reports as related to the through waterway indicate that the estimates as made by the engineers would probably be doubled. furthermore. as appears on the last .page of the pamphlet on the desks of senatorsthe above estimate is based on commerce during the years 1929 and 1930. considering the rate of growth of the steel industry from 1900 to 1930 it seems reasonable to predict that by 1940 the tonnage and savings will be  less than 125 percent of that estimated above or 7.500.000 tons with savings from $3.500.000 to $4.000.000 annually. the trend since then has been up.  down. as further bearing upon the conservativeness of this estimate. in estimating what the cost of water transportation would be. the board of engineers used 5 mills per tonmile as the cost of water transportation on the ohio river and 71/ mills per tonmile on the beaver and mahoning rivers. whereas the dravo corporation. which is actually carrying on this kind of transportation at the present time. does it for 3 mills per tonmile. as bearing still further upon the conservativeness of the figures i cite the fact that in 1941 colonel th. representing the board of engineers of the army. when asked what the savings would be if the canal were built in that year. estimated them  at $3.120.000 but at $4.618.000. and in the 1944 testimony which was taken before us this year. at page 107. major general robins. speaking for the board of engineers. said this about these rates: senator overton. what have you to say as to the ratio of cost to benefit. general. are they increased since this report. one way or the other. of course we have the costs. . the question is. are the benefits increased or decreased. major general robins. i should say they are increased. senator. because i think the need for this waterway has increased. the great development that has been made during the last few years in the vicinity of youngstown. i think. emphasizes the importance of the project. senator overton. there has been an increase of tonnage. major general robins. there has been an increase of tonnage. and an increase in the importance of the tonnage to the country. also at the hearings in 1944. at page 108. in answer to a question that i asked colonel feringa. he further emphasized the conservativeness of these figures. my question was as follows: in connection with your estimated prospective tonnage you base your estimates of the benefits upon. could you explain the basis used there to show whether it is a conservative basis of estimate or . colonel feringa replied: i am.talking from memory. that is given in the report in detail. it was very conservatively estimated. like all our analyses of prospective tonnage. we got in touch with the prospective shippers. 0 * * i think we took something like 60 percent of that prospective tonnage. the analysis was made during the years when there wasnt as much production as later. and we did  include in that tonnage the probable tonnage that the interests that are opposed to the canal will ship. i think the estimate is extremely conservative. that brings me to the question of the estimates of cost. i have already placed in the record the rules which govern the engineers in making these estimates. they are a guaranty of their conservative nature. on page 15 of the pamphlet which appears on the desk of senators there is a tabulation of annual costs. it is broken down in detail. it is taken from house document  277. seventythird congress. page 12. paragraph 29. and i ask unanimous consent that it may be printed in the record at this point.
i merely wish to make sure that the senator appreciates the fact that the board of engineers for rivers and harbors in its final reports on the project has overruled the district and division engineers on the original report. and has pointed out in the final report that the lower canal would be open 350 days of the year. and therefore there would  be any necessity for the shutdown which is indicated by the authority to whom the senator from wyoming has referred. furthermore. the type of freight which would be carried would be the type which could easily be stockpiled. and therefore the railroads would  be under the necessity of maintaining standby service for the short canal. the long canal to lake erie is something else. but the short canal would be much more open in winter than the thern end would be. and the traffic situation is such that the materials could readily be stockpiled.
. i made an extended statement yesterday respecting this amendment. i wish to make an extremely brief one today. this committee amendment presents a proposal which has already been approved by congress. it does. however. require action in the present form so as to include mi engineering improvements. and an increase in the federal expenditure by one and onehalf million dollars. as recommended by the board of engineers in response to the previous request of the congress. the projects revised cost as a federal expenditure will be $38.500.000. its overall cost will be less than before.. being $42.400.000 instead of $47.000.000. the history of this project i gave in detail yesterday. it demonstrates the unfailing approval which it has received whenever acted upon by the board cf engineers or by a committee of congress. it has been approved in the several steps of its development by two boards of engineers. by three chiefs of engineers. it has been approved twice by the committee on rivers and harbors of the iouse. twice by the committee on commerce of the senate. it has been passed once by the house and passed once by the senate in its previous form. finally on its merits. the need and justification of this project is clear. because of the excessive rail rates. the present charge for transporting coal to youngstown partly by rail and partly by water is three times what it would be if done all by water. and for the distance where the proposed canal will replace rail transportation. the present rail rates are about seven times what they would be by water. it is an outstanding case of exaggerated rail charges. the ratio of ecoic benefits was found to be favorable by the engineers. and today the ratio is substantially stronger than when it was computed by. the engineers. the committee in supporting this amendment asks only that the same public policy be applied to the beavermahoning branch of the headwaters of the ohio river .as has been applied to it.s other branches. it is approved by the committee on commerce. and i hope the senate will today approve it as a part of the bill.
. the testimony would indicate to me that there is trouble with the rates being charged in that area. and that all the consumers who are seeking power obtain power. i refer to a quotation on page 872 of the record of the hearings. in which special reference is made to utility rates in that area. i quote from the report of the railroad commission of california for the fiscal year ending june 30. 1944. as follows: san francisco retains its position with lowestcost utility services (combined gas. electric. and telephone) of any of the 25 major cities of the united states. and los angeles has the lowest of any city in the nation with over 1.000.000 population. that is under the same regulation. and the rural areas. i understand. throughout that section are fully served. but the point is that the private customer offers to buy from the shasta damthe governmentwhatever power the government produces. at a rate to be fixed by the state railroad commission of california and the federal power commission. and to transmit that power to the ultimate consumer.
i.understand that the last point is in line with the question:i arked. thirtyfive percent of the $100.000.000 is set aside by the federal government for major airports. socalled urban airports. class 4 and class 5 airports. and that $35.000.000 is to be available for use under the major plan for larger airports. there will also be available $65.000.000 priffiarily for the smaller airports. in answer to the senator from west virginia. let me say that. as i understand his question. if a city in west virginia wished to have a large airport and if the law of west virginia required. let us assume. that the city must proceed under state leadership and through a state agency. because the state wishes to control its cities through the suate government. under those circumstances a city of west virginia would go to the state of west virginia and would say to it. "we wish to apply for a large airport." then the state would make application to the federal government. and the federal government would say. "under the plan. you need an airport at charleston." or wherever it might be. you can match it with any public federal funds you can raise. the city could therefore get its money for the large airport if it went to the state. and the .state could ak for a small airport if it went the other way.
. i should like to make a brief statement in support of the bill as recommended and reported by the committee. and therefore in opposition to the amendment which has been offered by the senator from maine. * i believe it is necessary for us to understand the fundamental outlines and purposes of the bill in order to see the issue clearly. first of all. i believe we should bear in mind that this is a billto continue the development of aviation in america. particularly interstate aviation which has grown to such an extraordinary degree. the bill. as reported by the committee. carries forward the program which has been thesource of that development. and i believe that the bill as it stands actually recognizes more fully. the right of the states to do as they please within their own areas than does the amendment proposed by the senator from maine. i believe in protecting the states in their rights to do as they please within their respective areas and to aline their subordinate organizations as they please. and i believe the federal government should  dictate to them how they should proceed and how they should channel their applications. we should make federal assistance in developing the backbone of our whole air facilities available to whatever agencies are ready and able to match it. to understand this issue. it is first necessary to understand what is meant by airports of classes 1. 2. 3. 4. and 5. the simplest definition-
i think i can make the reason for my position perfectly plain. and i shall do so in a few moments. i think that under the bill as reported by the committee the states as such have complete jurisdiction over their owfi areas. whereas under the brewster amendment i think the state governments as such are told by the federal government to restrict their cities. the federal government has usiness to -tell the states how to handle their cities. the states can do that best for themselves. and we should be willing to deal with the cities directly if the state laws  permit it. referring to the general definition of the airports involved. it is somewhat confusing in the bill for the reason that airports involved in classes 1. 2. and 3 are referred to as state program airports. and those involvedin classes 4 and 5 are referred to as urban airports. that is  the real distinction between the airports in those classes. classes 1. 2. and 3 "involve airports with runways extending up to 4.500 feet. and those of 4 and 5 with runways exceeding 4.500 feet. therefore. the real distinction. to my mind. is between the major airports and the mi airports. and. roughly speaking. the socalled urban program of major airports has to do with airports that have a runway of more than a mile in length. whether the airport be in a city. in a village. or in a part of a state where there is municipal government at all. it is this major airport program that has been the foundation of our interstate air commerce through the years. how shall the federal government proceed to administer that program. we are setting aside by this bill an authorization of as much as $500.000.000 over a 5year period-$100.000.000 for the first year. that is to be divided in two clearcut amounts. thirtyfive percentthe bill says " to exceed 35 percent." so it might be less than 35 percentis allowed for the major airports. the urban program therefore may get $35.000.000 of federal money annually. that is. it is to be distributed among those airports regardless of state lines. but is to be distributed according to the national program. under the committee bill congress is to have the final say as to which ones it shall go. under the amendment proposed by the senator from maine the matter comes directly under the administrator of the national program. and congress has hing further to say as to which airports the money shall go. as a matter of fact. therefore. congress retains a greater control over the distribution of the $35.000.000 under the committee bill than under the brewster amendment.
i think that is  quite accurate. for example. the sfate of connecticut might have in mind a number of airports. the national board might look over the sites and decide that three or four of them came within the national program. then an application- would be made. but connecticut could  obtain federal money to assist in the construction of airports which did  come under the jurisdiction of the federal board and meet with its approval. it could construct all the local airports it might desire to construct. but if it were to obtain federal money. the projects must fit into the federal program. however. the federal boatd could  make the state build an airport where the state did  want to build it.
. returning to consideration of the brewster amendments en bloc. as modified. the fundamental issue here. after considering the allocation of the funds and the termiogy used for airports. is how shall the $35.000.000 for the major airports be sponsored by those who wish to participate in that program and how shall the $65.000.000 for mi airports be sponsored by those who wish to participate in that program. we have in the past developed our great airport system through the states and cities. whichever were willing and ready to proceed. on that.basis we have made substantial progress. it is the purpose of this bill to continue that progress.  to put handicaps in its way. as i understand. the bill as originally proposed contained provision for a division as between the smaller airports and the larger ones. by leaving only class 1 and class 2 airports to purely state control insofar as sponsorship is concerned. and by placing class 3. class 4. and class 5 airports wide open to sponsorship by states or subdivisions thereof. therefore the original bill. in order to continue the program sponsored by the civil aeronautics administration. recommended that the smaller airportsthose in classes 1 and 2be under state control. and that airports of classes 3. 4. and 5 be wide open for state or local control or sponsorship. throughout the hearings it was developed that the states had been more active than in the past. and there was request that there be further allocation of funds for airports under state control. as a result of that testimony. the committee voted that airports in classes 1. 2. and 3that is. those with runways up to 4.500 feet in lengthshould comd under the sponsorship- of the state agencies. but that airports of major character. namely. those with runways 4.500 feet or more in lengthpractically a mile or more in lengthshould still remain open for sponsorship by states or municipalities or any other public agencies which might have the initiative and the funds and might be ready to go ahead in conjunction with the federal government. the point i wish to make particularly is that in the case of the major airports there is prohibition against having a state sponsor such an airport. and there is requirement that municipalities and counties in a state shall proceed only through the state. therefore. under the committee bill. the federal governmeht will leave to the state the entire choice regarding how it shall proceed in sponsoring the airports within the state. whereas the amendment is an intrusion upon rather than a freeing of the states -from federal control. to my mind. the amendment says. "in the case of major airports you shall proceed only through the state channels." whereas the states can require that . but under the amendment the state would  be able to do anything except that. it would  be able to permit the municipalities to proceed as they wish and to provide the money. one hundred million dollars has gone into munidipal airports so far. many states. such as the state of ohio. have statutory authority to issue bonds. the cities are anxious to be able to continue as they have. i have before me telegrams fromthe cities of cleveland. toledo. youngstown. akron. and dayton asking that they be able to continue in this matter as heretofore. therefore i ask for adoption of the committees theory. that will leave the states free. if they choose to be free. to permit their municipalities to act as sponsors. but if the states wish to do it. they will be able to do it. if a state wishes to do it. let it do it. but  the congress of the united states.
the practical answer to that is that at the present time the situation is such that the states have in large measure hung back in the development of the major airports of the nation. we  have a situation in which the cities and local governments have taken the initiative and are ready to proceed. therefore. if the federal government merely recognizes the facts as they are. we should pass a bill of this kind and deal with the cities or states as they are. rather than legislate something new into the situation and thereby require the states to proceed by a new method of dealing with their cities in some manner that will hamper continuation of the development which thus far has been obtained. i believe the best way to make use of the funds of the cities. which are merely parts of the states and are controlled by state lawand their financial policies are controlled by state lawis to permit them to participate in state activities of this sort. if we do that we promote the aviation business and we keep out outside interests.
were appointed managers on the part of the house at the conference. the message also annced that the house had agreed to the amendment of the senate to each of the following bills of the house: h. r 1566. an act for the relief of sigfried olsen. doing business as sigfried olsen shipping co.. and h.r. 2388. an act to provide for enlistments in the regular army during the period of the war. and for other purposes. the message further annced that the house had passed a bill to extend the authority of the president under section 350 of the tariff act of 1930. as amended. and for other purposes. in which it requested the concurrence of the senate. the message also annced that the house had agreed to senate concurrent resolution 14. as follows: resolved by the senate (the house of representatives concurring). that the letter of the secretary of the interior. dated february 2. 1945. transmitting. pursuant to public law  302. seventyeighth congress. approved may 14. 1944. a report on a survey of the fishery resources of the united states and its possessions. be printed as a senate document. and that 33.100 additional copies shall be printed. of which 10.000 copies shall be for the use of the senate. 22.100 copies for the use of the house of representatives. 500 copies for the use of the committee on commerce of the senate. and 500 copies for the use of the committee on the merchant marine and fisheries of the house of representatives. the message further annced that the house had agreed to a concurrent resolution authorizing the printing of additional copies of part 2 of the hearings held before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house of representatives. current session. on the bill to amend the railroad retirement acts. the railroad unemployment insurance act. and subchapter b of chapter 9 of the internal revenue code. and for other purposes. in which it requested the concurrence of the senate.
ial declaration of an emergency. instead of a congressional declaration of an emergency. as the bill  provides. the army testified that it was statisfied in all respects except that one. subsequent to that expression by the defense department. aher hearing was held by a subcommittee of the committee on armed services. in which representatives of both the defense department and port of new york authority. the present lessee of the city of newark. were present and testified. it was made clear by representatives of the port authority that if the basic law were changed as requested by the department of defense. it would be impossible to get anyone to build the facilities which are necessary in order to rehabilitate the whole area and make it a going concern. for that reason. change has been made by the committee in the basic law. the bill still provides that. if it be passed. the property may be retaken by the defense department and the formula for compensation applied upon a declaration of an emergency by congress.
. i think it is perhaps appropriate for me to make a few comments so shortly after the statement of the senator from new hampshire . because if his state fares the worst under the house bill. certainly the state of new jersey is the greatest sufferer under the senate committee bill. it should  be. as the senator from indiana has said. a very difficult problem for us to provide for the building of an interstate system of highways on a sensible basis. whereby actual needs are determined. actual costs are fixed. roads are built. and the federal government pays 90 percent of the actual cost of the interstate highway system. it should  be too difficult. if we have the will to do it. i do  suggest any individual chicanery. but it seems to me the difficulty we have been having in trying to arrive at a sensible method of the application of the program indicates that there is something more than a simple effort to arrive at that result. because. certainly. reasonable men of good will ought to be able to agree on the need for the system.
. why our costs are higher. why we have to build more roads. and. i emphasize again. the state highway department stands by its figures. i hope that this discussion will help demolish the ridiculous arguments that high estimates from one state are false. per se. and that because aher state has different problems. or pays less attention to its survey. it must be right. i believe that the needs estimates of the states are accurate. on the whole. besides. if we adopt the spirit of the house bill. there is ample protection against misstatement or error. anything short of this principle will fail to build an interstate network.
the question which i haveor perhaps a series of questionsrelates to the interpretation of the bill. and the judgment of the senator from oklahoma . as well as the judgment of the distinguished senator from wyoming . on the difficult question in the field of antitrust law. the question arises in this way: under the definitions in the bill. section 1. subsection (e). good faith is defined to mean "the duty of the automobile manufacturer. its officers. employees. or agents to act in a fair. equitable. and arbitrary manner so as to guarantee the dealer freedom from coercion. intimidation. or threats of coercion or intimidation. and in order to preserve and protect all the equities of the automobile dealer which are inherent in the nature of the relationship between the automobile dealer and automobile manufacturer." in order to get at my point. i should like to ask the senator first whether or . in his judgment. if the manufacturer decided. we will say. without being able to prove any fault on the part of the dealer in a particular town in which there was only one dealer. that he would like to have aher dealer in that town. he would. under the provisions of the bill if it should become law. be in violation if he granted to aher person a dealership in that town.
i should like to ask the senator from oklahoma one further question. and then i shall be glad to have the views of the senator from wyoming. in section 3 of the bill. toward the end. in the very last phrase. are the words: "by reason of the failure of said automobile manufacturer to act in good faith in performing or complying with any of the terms or provisions of the franchise. or in terminating. canceling. or  renewing the franchise with said dealer." is it the senators view that it is obligatory on a manufacturer to extend or renew franchises indefinitely under this bill. or would there be a violation of law only if there were affirmative evidence that a manufacturer had refused to renew in the course of a process of coercion. intimidation. or threats of coercion and intimidation.
the question is. what is good faith. this colloquy may be helpful in spelling out our intent. i have wish to complain about the difficulties which i k exist in writing legislation of this sort. an indefinite right of renewal is  one of the equities of an automobile dealer. i take it.
the senator anticipates my next question. which is this: would it. in the senators judgment. be desirable. and would he be willing to accept an amendment to section 3 providing that lack of good faith on the part of a dealer would be a defense to the action brought by the dealer against the automobile manufacturer.
. several constituents have complained to my office that they are unable to obtain passports to visit the nation of israel. this is particularly important to many americans during the coming month of april. many christians are desirous of visiting the holy land during the celebration of easter. which falls this year on april 21. likewise. many jews are interested in visiting israel during the festival of passover. which starts this year on april 16. in addition to these considerations. we all k how important tourist income and international trade are to the ecoy of israel. the forces of israel have been withdrawn to its own borders. there is reason to penalize the nation by withholding american tourists and visitors from her land. the present policy of the state department. i am told. is to issue passports for israel only in cases of unusual hardship or to persons who are involved in substantial business transactions. this policy has reduced the number of tourists substantially. last year this government issued 986 passports to israel for the first quarter of the year. during the month of january this year only 11 were issued. last year the largest quarter was the second one. extending from april through june. inclusive. and i am hopeful that the state department will see fit to remove the limitation on travel so that many americans will  be disappointed in their travel plans for this period. i feel that a resumption of mal travel will in itself be a step toward achievement of a better exchange of information between israel and the united states. i recognize. of course. that the state department has a responsibility to consider the safety of americans traveling abroad and that the final decision must necessarily rest with the department. but in reaching its decision the department should. and i am confident will. give full weight to the positive factors in favor of free travel by american citizens to israel.
. i submit a resolution to express the sense of the senate that the interstate commerce commission utilize the full procedure available to it in curtailment of railroad passenger operations. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a news release. prepared by me. relating to the resolution.
. on behalf of myself. senators bush. clark. dodd. javits. keating. and neuberger. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to provide for thorough consideration and review by the interstate commerce commission of railroad passenger train and ferry discontinuances. i ask unanimous consent that the bill lie on table until end of week during which time any senator may join as a cosponsor.
the wave of discontinuance ices which has flooded the commission since the passage of last years transportation act has created a critical situation. the 1958 law will allow such discontinuances to go into effect. unless the icc. within 5 . months of the time it is ified that a train or ferry will be discontinued. orders the railroad to continue the train or ferry for aher year. we have grave doubts whether the commission can adequately consider the diverse and complex issues involved in each of these cases within the time allotted. unless "congress acts. therefore. to amend the act. this extremely important matter affecting many thousands of railroad passengers may be determined on the basis of a hasty and incomplete consideration of all the facts. the problem can best be approached by recalling the circumstances under which the transportation act of 1958 was adopted. as stated in the reports of the surface transportation subcommittee and the * interstate and foreign commerce committee. section 5 of the transportation act of 1958 which became section 13a of the interstate commerce act was enacted in order to vest the interstate commerce commission with authority to authorize in proper cases the discontinuance. curtailment. or consolidation of unprofitable railroad services and facilities burdening interstate commerce. evidence elicited by the subcommittee tended to demonstrate that state regulatory bodies had been unduly repressive in requiring the continuation of unecoic and unnecessary passenger services by the railroads. there was also testimony to the effect that these same regulatory bodies frequently delayed decisions for an unreasonable time. in order to correct this situation. the subcommittee and the full committee proposed to give to the interstate commerce commission jurisdiction in the field of discontinuance or change of rail services similar to the jurisdiction which the commission  has over intrastate rates under section 13 of the interstate commerce act. it was thought that to do this would protect and further the broad public interest in a sound transportation system and would prevent undue importance being attached to matters of a purely local nature. the bill which was enacted into law for these purposes has  accomplished them. rather it has resulted in a delegation of congressional authority directly to the railroads of this country. with effective machinery for review by any regulatory agency. the act has been construed by the railroads as on open invitation to abandon interstate passenger service without regard to public need. twentyseven ices to discontinue approximately 100 trains are pending before the commission. and railroads are threatening to discontinue additional service affecting many more thousands of passengers. as the law is  written and interpreted by the federal courts and the commission. the railroads are given what amounts to full authority to remove any passenger train they desire. unless stopped by action of the icc in the limited time provided by the act. the experience of recent months clearly indicates the need for providing more effective review by the commission of passenger train and ferry discontinuance. we believe our bill will accomplish what congress sought to achieve last year and at the same time prevent the wholesale elimination of passenger service. it will do this by giving to the interstate commerce commission jurisdiction over passenger train abandonments similar to the jurisdiction it  has over the abandonment of railroad lines by virtue of paragraph 18 of section 1. under that old section and under our new bill. before it may abandon a line or discontinue a train or ferry. a railroad is required to come to the commission and obtain a certificate permitting it to do so. there is 4month time limit within which the commission must reach a decision. and the commission may order the line. train. or ferry continued for whatever period it deems necessary. this can be done by the insertion of a new paragraph 19 in section 1 of the act. railroad has ever complained about the provisions of paragraph 18.  have they complained of the treatment received at the hands of the commission in cases arising under that paragraph. furthermore. section 1 is the logical section of the act in which to place passenger train abandonment provisions--abandonments of lines of railroads and discontinuance of passenger trains are identical in terms of their effect on the public. be it the riding or shipping public. the railroads and their employees. and the icc has many years of precedents involving line abandonments on which to rely in determining passenger train abandonments. in short. we have. in paragraph 18. a logical precedent on which to pattern legislation dealing with discontinuances. our bill would require the railroads to apply to the icc. if the particular states involved have  legislated regarding train discontinuances. and it gives the railroads an option to choose between the icc and a state commission where the states have regulatory laws regarding such discontinuances. upon the filing of an application. the commission shall hold a hearing prior to acting upon the discontinuance application. all interested parties would be permitted to be heard at the hearing. the ordinary procedures  followed by the commission in line abandonment cases then would be pursued with the result that each train abandonment would be fully considered by the commission regarding its effect on the public and the railroad. the time restrictions  placed on the commission would be eliminated. but in a mal case this would mean that the final discontinuance of the service. if such were warranted. would be postponed for only 2 or 3 months. in addition. the commission would be empowered to impose conditions which it found the public interest required. under the present statute the commission has held that it has such power. in summary. the bill which we propose would permit the railroads to discontinue all trains which should be discontinued but will prevent the railroads from discontinuing those trains for which there is a public need. in other words. this bill will accomplish the purposes for which section 13(a) was intended but which it has  and will  achieve.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill designed to promote confidence in the integrity of our governmental processes. the distinguished junior senator from oregon . who has long taken a particular interest in the maintenance of high standards of public service. joins me in sponsoring the measure. talk of influence. charge. and countercharge of special interest. are a commonplace in american political life. it would be naive to deny that there is occasional corruption. that there are instances of improper influence. in my own experience. however. most public officials are sincerely. and to the best of their ability. trying to carry out the responsibilities of their office. apparently. however. human nature being what it is. it is always easier to believe * the worst. certainly. it is a fact. a . tragic fact. i believe. that far too many americans tend to look upon politicians * as practitioners of a  quite respectable profession. as repeated polls show. the average american does  want his children to enter politics and. while he may be saddened. he is  surprised by stories of "fixing" and political favoritism. this situation is. i believe. cause for serious concern. carried far egh. this attitude can only result in a general disenchantment and cynicism that saps the validity of the democratic process. recent french history is a case in point. for if there is any aspect of the troubled history of france since the war upon which all commentators seem agreed. it has been the contempt of the french people generally for their elected representatives. i do  suggest we are approaching that unhappy state. but i do  think we can afford to view with complacency a situation where. for example. any and all travel by a congressional committee. however conscientious its members and worthy its purpose. tends to be automatically dismissed as a junket. where. for example. many people take it for granted that any vote can be explained in terms of the pressures. generally sinister. brought to bear on the individual legislator. however unwarranted and unjustifiedand they are in most cases--these are  uncommon attitudes. the bill we introduce today is designed to dispel the mystery and secrecy that inevitably tends to breed such attitudes. first. it would require full disclosure of the financial interests of all top officials in the federal government. senators. and congressman. as well as the top people in the executivc branch and in the independent agencies. second. the bill would require that all communications in regard to a pending case. whether by letter or by word of mouth. to a regulatory or semijudicial agency be made part of the public record in the case. two other provisions would require. first. itemized expense accounts for all travel by members or staff of congressional committees. the accounts to be and. second. the establishment of a commission on legislative standards to study and make recommendations concerning problems of conflicts of interest confronting members of congress as well as their relations with executive and other agencies. this would include such matters as that of disqualification from voting on particular items. and the often difficult determination of the line between adequate representation of constituent interest and attempted influence. the basic ion behind the bill is  new. it is simply that disclosure of the facts offers the most effective way of dealing with this kind of problem. rather than attempting to police what is inherently unpoliceable. my proposal would put the facts on the record where the people can make their own decisions. the mere fact that members of congress and federal employees would be required to report gifts and outside income would. i believe. serve as a brake on both those who would influence and those who would be influenced. when an individual realizes that a gift. for example. will be a matter of public record. he is likely to give additional consideration to the propriety of the gift. the bill is similar to one i introduced in the last session. following its introduction i received many letters. the number of people who took the time to write was gratifying indeed. but many of the letters contained a disturbing e. their general import was that while the writers heartily approved this kind of approach they could  believe that it could or would be adopted. the implication is. of course. that members of congress can afford to expose their financial interests or activities to public view. to my mind this kind of reaction only confirms the need for some such measure as we propose.
i express my appreciation to the senator from washington for the initiative he has taken in this matter. as chairman of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. he has followed the subject of railroad transportation and all other phases of transportation with the greatest interest and zeal. i join with the senator from washington and many other of our colleagues. including the distinguished junior senator from new jersey . in sponsoring the bill. . this matter is a measure with which the senate must deal as an important piece of unfinished business.
 and congress so that we would have his expert judgment as to just which regulatory functions should be transferred by law to him. the purpose would be to transfer promotional and administrative functions of the regulatory commissions to the new department. thus. the interstate commerce commission would  need to administer railroad loan and safety programs as it does today. the civil aeronautics board need  concern itself with discovering new types of subsidy to grant air carriers. but would leave it to the new secretary to determine what. in the overall transportation interest. should be subsidized and to what extent. the bill also directs the secretary to make recommendations with respect to which activities of other agencies. for example. the army corps of engineers. should be transferred to the new department. the engineers promote river and harbor projects. there is fixed policy at present on the imposition of user charges or as to local participation in the cost of a navigation project. this is the kind of question that should be looked at from an overall point of view in terms of the effect of such policies.  only on water carrier. but other competing modes of transportation. i believe this bill provides a logical approach to the objective. both the rockefeller brothers report and the hoover commission task force have strongly supported the concept of a single transportation agency. the people of my state have a special stake in this matter. for we will fail. in the long run. to reach our objective for maintaining essential rail passenger service unless we develop the means for providing an ecoically balanced transportation system. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i was also pleased to see that four new jersey municipalities were cited for their records in this program. bloomfield won an award for  having any pedestrian deaths during the past year and west orange received recognition for improvement of its program activities. among cities under 10.000 scotch plains township won an hoable mention and pompton lakes a special citation for its pedestrian program activities.
. he would aim eventually for the objective which my bill proposes. i believe he will eventually come to see alternative to my approach. we in the east are particularly concerned with the need for preserving and strengthening mass transportation facilities. it is  egh. though. to stem the flow of passengertrain discontinuances until some realistic action can be taken to put commuter service on a going basiseven though the sponsors of this bill have been pressing very hard for the achievement of that vitally important goal. too. we k what would happen to our area without mass transportation. a few weeks of sfall have given us just a small taste of what that kind of disaster would produce if cars and buses were the only way to get in and out of new york city. the steps required to save train service are  egh. vital as they are. unless all our transportation systems can be kept in balance. the shortrange solutions will likely prove patchwork indeed.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to make the loan guarantee authority of the federal government available for the financing. through public agencies. of new railroad equipment. terminals. passenger cars. and the like. the senate previously approved my proposal. in amendment form. on march 29 when the loan guarantee authority of the interstate commerce act was extended. but the house accepted amendments in extending the authority for 27 months. and it is necessary and. i believe. desirable. to introduce my proposal as a bill. a recently submitted report to the senate stresses the urgent need to preserve our mass transportation services. several hundred thousand new jerseyites who work in new york city and philadelphia. and who have been threatened with drastically reduced rail passenger service. hardly need a reminder. the new jersey highway department ks what abandoned rail transportation service would mean to already crowded highways and parking areas. the port of new york authority could doubtless paint the same picture for its tunnels and bridges across the hudson river between new york and new jersey. the report. which was jointly submitted by the regional plan association and anthony arpaia. consultant to our senate commerce committee. is specific about what needs to be done. a major capital investment. says the rpaarpaia report. must be made to save and improve commuter rail service. the report holds that. without immediate investment in equipment and facilities. operating deficits will continue to spiral while service declines. eventually. if conditions continue to deteriorate. the safety of the public may be jeopardized. the background study. which was prepared for the use of our committees pilot commuter study of the new york metropolitan area. estimates that a capital investment of from $650 to $800 million is needed to stabilize operating costs and service and to take a step toward cutting costs and improving services. the federal government can assist by helping provide a share of the capital funds. in the long run. as the arpaia report points out. this is far less a burden on the taxpayer than providing alternative commuter facilities. the bill i introduce would make it clear that the federal government could guarantee the bonds or other obligations issued by states. municipalities. and other public agencies for the purpose of buying or building modern equipment and facilities and leasing them to the railroads. in this way. i believe. railroads providing commuter service would get the maximum benefit from the loan guarantee authority which has been on the books since 1958. up to . relatively little use has been made of this authority. in 1958. congress attempted to deal with the deteriorating condition of american railroads by granting the interstate commerce commission authority to guarantee improvement loans for them up to an aggregate of $500 million. only about $85 million of such loans have been guaranteed to date. few. indeed. have been made available to shorthaul passenger railroads. loans for the improvement of commuter services from private sources. even with government guarantees. have  proved attractive from the standpoint of the lenders or the railroads themselves. this bill would use the guarantee authority  only for the obligations of the railroads themselves. but for the purpose of aiding any state. municipality. or other agency which may be organized for the purpose. in financing or refinancing the acquisition or construction of property to be used in transportation service of such common carrier by railroad. regardless of what congress does with the $250 million direct loan program sponsored by senator williams of new jersey and supported by me. we should  overlook the availability of the $415 million unused portion of the $500 million loan guarantee fund for use in strengthening our commuter services. these objectives are highly desirable. and it is important that everyone k that they could be accomplished under the existing loan authority. as amended by my new bill. fiscal experts have told me that credit provided under the loan guarantee program would be more. and possibly less. expensive for the communities. the public transportation agencies. the railroads. and the taxpayers. than direct federal loans. there is an urgent need to improve as well as keep alive our essential mass transportation services. we must utilize all our available resources to that end.
. as a cosponsor of the amendment introduced on tuesday by the senator from oregon . i should like to state briefly why i believe we should extend the period in which states can take advantage of the billboard control provisions of existing law. as senators k. in 1958 congress offered a bonus of onehalf of 1 percent of the cost of the interstate and defense highways to states which met certain standards of billboard control. this provision was one of the most important. in my judgment. of those placed in the road program. as the states take giant steps to bring our road network up to the standards necessary for todays heavy motor traffic. it is essential that we maintain control of the roadsides. many of the new roads proposed will enable americans and our foreign visitors to see beautiful areas of this country. but this will be difficult if there are protections enacted to encourage the states to maintain control over billboards. a steady stream of billboards is a poor substitute for the beautiful views of our scenic attractions which would otherwise be available to the motorist. three states have  qualified for the federal payments for billboard control and the legislatures of some 10 others have enacted the necessary legislation to make it possible to join in the program. in my own state of new jersey. authorizing legislation is  pending before the legislature. the sponsors in the assembly believe that this legislation will pass if congress acts to extend the existing law for 2 years. throughout the state. for many years there has been a great and growing interest in preserving the beauty of our countryside. numerous new jersey groups and organizations have been active in this cause. and i am hopeful that congress will act to help keep our roadsides beautiful. it is bad egh to see much of our country cut up for roads. but this is the price of a motorized civilization. the price is excessive when it also disfigures the roadside with billboards.
 and congress so that we would have his expert judgment as to just which regulatory functions should be transferred by law to him. the purpose would be to transfer promotional and administrative functions of the regulatory commissions to. the new department. thus. the interstate commerce commission would need  administer railroad loan and safety programs as it does today. the civil aeronautics board need  concern itself with discovering new types of subsidy to grant air carriers. but would leave it to the new secretary to determine what. in the overall transportation interest. should be subsidized and to what extent. the bill also directs the secretary to make recommendations with respect to which activities of other agencies. for example. the army corps of engineers. should be transferred to the new department. the engineers promote river and harbor projects. there is fixed policy at present on the imposition of user charges or greater local participation in the cost of a navigation project. this is the kind of question that should be looked at from an overall point of view in terms of the effect of such policies. . only on water carriers. but other competing modes of transportation. i believe this bill provides a logical approach to the objective. the rockefeller brothers report. and later -gover rockefeller himself. the hoover commission task force. and the report of the advisory group to the senate commerce committee. kn as the doyle report. have strongly supported the concept of a single transportation agency. the people of my state have a special stake in this matter. for we will fail. in the long run. to reach our objective for maintaining essential rail passenger service unless we delevop the means for providing an ecoically balanced transportation system. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
or any other rule of the .senate. the restriction imposed on the proposed committee by the senate rules committee was that it should  deal with either the precedents or rules of the senate. a more ridiculous restriction could hardly be imagined. oddly egh. a similar restriction. almost in those words. was placed on the la follettemonroney reorganization committee of 1946. despite that fact. that committee accomplished a substantial amount of good. though far less than it should have and would have accomplished. considering all the circumstances. except for this restriction. the fate of that particular resolution is still in doubt. i wish the doubt were greater. because. unless something happens in the way of an aroused public sentiment. we shall  get that resolution off the calendar again in this session. as i started to say. it was discussed for the remainder of the aftern i mentioned. then the majority leader. recognizing the force behind the gently worded statement of the senator from georgia. let it go back to the calendar. as it did at the expiration of business on that day. something else took its place as the active business before the senate. and it has rested on the calendar ever since. that is where the particular vehicle for the machinery which we hoped to start in motion to improve the practices and creaking procedures and cumbersome inactivity of the senate. and the house. too. rests at the moment. before we enter into the discussion of the matter with respect to which the senator from pennsylvania and i happen at the moment to be collaborting. namely. title vii of the pending civil rights bill. let me say that the senate and the country are very fortunate to have the senator from pennsylvania interesting himself in the matter of procedures in congress and in congress as an institution. i hope. under his leadership. and with the collaboration of other senators. that we shall eventually get to it.
. those portions of the interstate highway system that have already been completed and are in use have certainly proven their worth. . there is a clear need for additional mileage in this system. and i hope the senate will give early consideration and approval to my bill. which would expand our great interstate highway system.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend title 23 of the united states code to increase the total mileage of the national system of interstate highways from 41.000 miles to 50.000 miles. the federal bureau of public roads has requests from numerous states. including new jersey. for an additional 20.000 miles of highway. over and above the existing authorization. the bureau can consider these because all of the mileage authorized under the federalaid highway act of 1956 has been allocated. the growth of our population and the increasing use of motor vehicles make it advisable that the interstate system be expanded  from its presently authorized 41.000 miles. we can wait until 1972 and then begin thinking about adding new highways. the need is here and . for example. in new jersey there is the pressing need for an expressway to link trenton with the shore area. but as i have already stated. because all mileage in the interstate highway system has already been allocated. new jersey is unable to get additional 9010 federal funds for this muchneeded road. there are also other expressways needed in our state which can be built for this same reason. equally important with meeting traffic needs are the safety features that a modern highway meeting interstate system standards provides. in 1963. there were over 43.000 fatalities in our nation. in the first 10 months of 1964 this figure jumped 11 percent over the comparable 10 months in 1963. if we project this 11 percent increase for the entire year of 1964. traffic fatalities for the year just passed will amount to more than 48.000. this is an appalling figure. recent figures provided by the bureau of public roads show that those portions of the interstate highway system  open have a trafficaccident fatality rate of 2.6 per hundred million vehiclemiles. on old conventional highways in the same traffic corridors. this figure rises to 9.7 fatalities per hundred million vehiclemiles. funds for the construction of the interstate system are derived from the trust fund which was established by congress and administered by the federal bureau of public roads. which is financed primarily through taxes on petroleum products used in motor vehicles. this fund is selfsustaining. and the revenues are derived solely from those making use of our roads. additional tax assessment is required. i hope the senate will give early consideration and approval to my bill which would expand this great interstate highway system of ours. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my bill be printed in full at this point in the record.
acting director. air traffic service. federal aviation agency. washington. d.c. dear mr. burton: relative to your telephone conversation with the chief of our operations division. mr. joseph c. zacko. on march 29. 1965. we would like to elaborate further on the subject of radar air traffic control procedures. we are concerned with radar air traffic control procedures used by controller personnel that we believe to be inconsistent with safe operating practices. we refer specifically to the procedure in which two aircraft are placed on convergent courses or near identical tracks at a time when they are climbing and/or descending toward each other in the terminal area. in a situation in which one aircraft is in climb attitude and the other in descent attitude. it is often difficult for pilots to judge whether vertical separation does or does  exist. even though they observe the other aircraft and are advised by atc of the relative altitudes. this problem is particularly acute in the terminal area during nighttime operations. and is compounded when either or both aircraft turn on the landing lights for identification purposes. the response to this situation may be an avoidance maneuver to escape a collision that only appears imminent. although altitude separation exists. this could result in a greater possibility of collision. in addition. the practice of placing two aircraft moving in a vertical plane on the same. or nearly the same. track in opposing directions. under visual flight conditions. sets up the possibility of loss of control of personal injury if for any reason one of the aircraft executes an unexpected maneuver for apparent collision avoidance. it is the boards belief that these potentially hazardous situations can be eliminated with little or derogation of air traffic control efficiency. since the altitude levels of kn ifr traffic in terminal areas are  extensive and the control of both the outbound and inbound traffic is vested in the same control facility. exchange of information and coordination between the departure controller and the arrival controller. therefore. should  be difficult or burdensome. accordingly. the board recommends that (a) when radar services are provided to kn ifr departing and arriving traffic in terminal areas. divergent track separation be provided. and (b) that climb or descent headings shall  be assigned which would result in track divergence between inbound and outbound aircraft on the order of less than 30. sincerely yours.
. in this mornings press i e a report. under the dateline of new brunswick. n.j.. of a meeting between the director of the new jersey turnpike authority and a representative of the department of state in regard to a recent practice inaugurated by the new jersey turnpike authority to escort from the turnpike diplomats who are violating the speed laws. this incident is aher illustration of a problem which i think we have  come anywhere near solving. i regard any american who represents this country abroad and who violates the laws of aher country as a person who ought  to be continued in the representation of this country abroad. equally. any foreign diplomat or representativeand it is  always one of high station. but frequently one of lower rankwho comes here and violates the hospitality which this country affords. whether it be parking by a fire hydrant or by blocking ahers driveway. and laughing at that person when he is asked to move. to say hing of the violation of speed laws and other traffic laws which cause hazard to american and other lives on the highways. ought  to be permitted to continue to remain in this country. i would  try to draw the line too nicely. i would seek to have such persons recalled. likewise. i would recall every one of our diplomats abroad who committed similar violations. anyone who is so thoughtless of the lives and conveniences of others. and who is so indifferent to the decencies that one human being ought to accord aher. as to violate the laws of this country as they relate to blocking traffic and causing dangerous accidents. is  a good representative of any government. it does kindness to aher government to let such a persons remain in this country. and it is also wrong for us to let any such person who represents this country abroad remain in any other country. i propose to ask our committee to look into this situation in some depth. because on the basis of my personal experience i am  satisfied that we have done anything other than to try to poultice this condition from time to time. i am glad that the new jersey turnpike authority has taken this action. it is intolerable that any person who speeds deliberately should be able to tear up his ticket and throw it in the face of the police who are trying to enforce the rules of the road and thus protect the lives. whether american or others. of those who use our highways.
. in my judgment. the language in the report is a careful reflection  only of the views of the senator from maryland and. as i recall. the senator from wisconsin and myself. but also a majority of the members of the committee. we are concerned about the free hand which the highway department of the district of columbia has been exercising in regard to streets and highways within the district. it has seemed to us that. when they get money to spend. it constitutes a kind of legislative authorization for their activities. that this is all they require. it has been my experience on this committee that we have . in fact. exercised that responsibility. i do  believe we should have to. but some elective body responsible to the people should control the highway department. that is my personal judgment. in answer to the question of the senator. specifically. it is desirable that the legislative committee in the senate and the legislative committee in the house have this responsibility as the governing body of the district of columbiawhich. in fact. they are. i have been deeply concerned by the fact that this monstrous plan for highways through and over the district of columbia is going ahead like a juggernaut without really any responsible control by any governing authority. i am  blaming those who build the highways. this is what they are interested in. what they see as their duty is the building of highways. but there should be somebody to protect the district of columbia and protect it from becoming chiefly a channel for rubbertired vehicles. there have been many articles written about this matter. they include one which appeared in the washington post. the general thrust of the article is that if we are lucky. the highway department may permit us to save the beautiful tidal basin in front of the jefferson memorial. because they will do something about changing the present plan which  involves. for example. the running of a great wide roadway right over it. they may even consider a change in the plan for tunneling under the lincoln memorial so that the beauty of this fine edifice and national monument will  be destroyed. but. they may . it is time that someone besides the highway engineers for the district of columbia makes these decisions. anyone who has lookedas i have done many times beforeat what has happened to the small segment of the highway plan which has been completedand it is  all completed yetin southwest washington. and who has seen the destruction wrought by the construction which has just begun in other areas near the potomac river. can help feeling that it is time we called a halt to it. perhaps the plans should go through. perhaps they should . but this fact is true: someone responsible to the people should have responsibility for deciding whether the plans should go through or . it should  be the engineers who should make that decision. therefore. it is the view of those of us on the appropriations subcommitteeand this was approved by the full committee. because the language was before the full committeethat this should be the legislative committees for the district.
we are all interested in trying to give guidance to the highway department. we would like that department to listen to some guidance which we have to offer. we do  feel that this should be a game whereby one can get authority in any way he can. whether by way of appropriations for small parts of something which may be much larger than the thing specifically appropriated for. or by presenting some general design to a committee and  having anyone object to it. the senators specific question is: does the language cover anything in this particular budget. the answer is that i do  believe it does.
. of course i accept the senators statement as to that. the fact is that it was in the report and it is in the report. i do   attempt to appraise or to make an assessment of the effect of it legally. i have been pressed by a number of good people and concerned people to make some statement which. as they say. will clarify the situation. i wish very much to be helpful. my own view is that the most helpful thing that any senator can do in this matter at this time is to bring about a thorough investigation of the question.  only of its impact upon the city of washington. our federal city. but upon all cities included in the interstate highway program. this is  said lightly. as the senator from west virginia. the chairman of the subcommittee has said. with equal sincerity. i say that wolf von eckardt wrote an extraordinarily fine article which was published in the outlook section of the washington post on sunday. entitled "damning the auto wont save the city." the first sentence of this article reads: if the beauty and grandeur of the national capital are to survive the next decade. we must take a creative new approach to the design of our proposed freeway system. i ask unanimous consent that the entire article may be printed in the record at this point.
. that is why the language is in the bill. the language is in there for the purpose of expressing the concern of the senators responsibleand i am oneabout a situation in which we are being very unwise in letting the force of great sums of federal money press upon  only the city of washington but also other cities. with the result that what could be an emous blessing and a great boon to those cities in the way of transportation and for other purposes is being misused. causing problems that we shall live to regret. and the loss of strong values that we can never replace. this is most particularly a responsibility. among many other responsibilities. of the senate of the united states at this moment. we can turn our back on the problem and say that the way things have been going and the way the law stands  are great. they are  great. the situation is very unclear. it should  be unclear. there should be doubt about the need for us to consider. and for responsible people all the time to consider. whether in building roads. we are destroying other values. and whether we can. as we should be doing here. work out comprehensive plans for the district of columbia and for all our cities. involving all forms of transportation and other needshousing. recreation. education. the preservation of monuments for their own sake. and for the value that they have in teaching our children the great things of our past. all of those things are involved and must be involved. that is why we should look at what has come into existence almost by happenstancethe kind of juggernaut which is threatening the very grace and decency of our cities in the form of this interstate highway program. what i have said is  said lightly. the words in the report were  written lightly.  were they written with any bad will at all. i am  interested in the highway boys. the roadbuilders. and the people who want mass transit. i want the best of both worlds. i want it  for myself. i want it for the people of the united states and the people of the district of columbia. it is our special responsibility to see that we get the best of both worlds and that we do  allow ourselves to be left in the position of helpless onlookers when this thing rolls over us. i appreciate the graciousness of my chairman for the opportunity to say what i have said today. i shall be glad to answer any questions i can to explain further my viewpoint -and to express myself further. formally or informally. to anyone. i think our responsibility as senators of the united states to preserve the capital of the united states can hardly be overstated.
in the first place. as the chairman of our subcommittee has stated. the house conferees repudiated the statement contained in the senate report. i am  prepared at this time to accept the suggestion that that would render the senate language completely without effect. i believe that there would be some question as to whether the committee on appropriations. or the senate as a whole. would accept that position. i myself do  accept it. on the specific question that the senator has raised. i believe that the senator from maryland has made it very clear as to what we think ought to be done here. and that is that the legislative committees of both the senate and the house should keep a continuous surveillance and oversight of the building of roads in the district of columbia as if they were. in effect. the governing body of any municipality. absent which action we have an absence of power and control in this situation which i believe is intolerable. who am i to say what the senate should be doing. but the question is asked whether the highway department can go along without hindrance. the question is whether we should be getting down to work and deciding whether we want what is already started and which would continue automatically unless somebody were to stop it. it is claimed that it ought to be permitted to continue. i feel very strongly that it should  be. i would like to place a little illustration of my own in the record. in this particular bill. a large amount of money is provided for the three sisters bridge. they do  even k where the three sisters bridge will be built. they say that the congress or any of its committees has approved that project. and has appropriated the money by the use of three words-"three sisters bridge." that is all. we k that it will cross the potomac river somewhere. i suggest that that kind of action is irresponsible and extreme.
i will  be tied down to this as it concerns the whole thing. i wish to go through each one. before the center leg is built. the committee ought to have a look at the project and approve the depth. the width. and the construction of it. it should be ascertained as to what it would do to the mall in front of the capitol. what it would do to the exits to the streets on each end of the tunnel that is proposed to be built. this is the committee responsibility or it is the responsibility of one. that is what i mean. we should go the full way. beyond that. i mean that the whole impact of the interstate highway program on all our own cities. as so well described in the article of von eckardt. should be looked into by congress. it would be my hope that the committee on public works would take this as a mandate pro bopublico.
i do. we should consider the desirability of what i think is the first danger. and that is the roadway to potomac park. we should consider how that should be built. how it should be constructed. and how it should be connected with thel4th street bridge. we should consider the roadway in terms of what it would do to the existing parkway and in terms of what should be exacted from the highway system in recompense for the approximate 100 acres that would be taken. as i understand it. they expect to take that 100 acres without giving any parkland back to the people of the district of columbia or the people of the united states. i believe that all of these matters should be reconsidered.
i believe that this can all be done and worked out in such a way as to meet the traffic needs of the district and the. requirements of the interstate program. i believe that probably the requirements should be changed and expanded with regard to its impact upon the cities of our country. so that it would  destroy. for example. the city of washington. and so that it would be compatible with the transportation systems. including both highway and rapid transit.
i appreciate so much the careful and conscientious way in which the senator is endeavoring to get at this matter. i should say that. first of all. our language is prospective and concerns future applications to the committee on appropriations for funds. i should say that since these appropriations are sought in segments. a piece here and a piece there. and since the road is constructed in segments. that when any construction is undertaken by the highway departmentand this is the way that i would look at it if i were in that departmentthat would require any future funding for other segments. without which the present construction is  of value and future construction would be required. then i believe that everything already appropriated for should be examined.
in my judgment. it should act in both capacities. i may be unduly partial to our colleagues in thinking all authority should be left to them. but i do  want what i have said in any way to be construed as being opposed to the basic issue here involved. and that is that the district of columbia should have home rule. when that happens. we would leave to the people of thi district of columbia the job of acting as state representatives with relation to the highway department. but until- that happens. we should act on it.
we are reasonable men. we have positions of responsibility. we are  stupid. we are  talking about potholes or ordinary streets in the district of columbia. we are talking about the interstate highway system. i would say the same if abc roads were involved. when i look at e street and its approaches and its ramps and the roads connecting it with the rest of the system. and see what it has done to the district of columbia. it is  only the 9010 roads. but the 5050 roads i am talking about. i am talking about the interstate system.
i think it would be ver3 desirable to have a legal opinion. i should be a complete one. there is i difference of opinion. the officials in the i highway department take the position 0 that they have complete authority to i take any federal land they desire to take. without any appeal to anybody. that is their position. i recall the statute as requiring that federal land 1 can be withheld by the department in i whose jurisdiction that land falls. but we should have an opinion. i believe. therefore. that the parks. which are under the control of the national park system. are under the jurisdiction of the department of the interior and are under the control of the secretary of the interior and that secretary udall has the right to say. "roads at all." or say. "there may be roads upon this condition or that condition." and that he does  have to say. "please." being a gentleman. he does say. "please". control over the parks is his responsibility and his power. and he can say that there will be destruction of the parks if it is his wish that that be so. i think it would be helpful to have an opinion from the attorney general on this question.
if the attorney general tells us the law as it  stands provides that the secretary of commerceand that means the public roads department in this instancehas a right to take any federal lands he desires for the interstate system. then i think. quite clearly. the law ought to be changed.
if i might make the situation clear. we do  wish to be unreasonable. we do  wish to prevent anyone from filling up a pothole. or from repairing roads which threaten danger to life and limb. or from repairing roads which make it inconvenient to drive on. i am talking about the great program. parts of the interstate system and parts of the abc system. such as roads that run in from the peripheral system. we all k what we are talking about. and so does the engineer commissioner.
it was very generous of my chairman to read the latter part of the statement. because to my mind it is most appropriate on the question of delay. first of all. delay up to this point has been one of the greatest blessings that has ever happened to the district of columbia and to the people interested in the capital of the united states. it has prevented the destruction of at least 100 acres of parkland up to . it is wonderful. it is great. it is good. as i pointed out in my colloquy with mr. whitton. this is entirely in the hands of congress. i can imagine when we have had such an opportunity to improve the system under which we are operating. particularly as concerns the interstate highway system. as it is incorporated within the cities of this country. we have the opportunity to state that congress does  look with favor upon the brief time taken for an inadequate study in an attempt to arrive at a solution. and that it would be happy to allow a good deal more time than has already been allowed under the present formula for a solution which would make such improvement possible. it is entirely within the control of congress. and it is  for an administrator. a bureaucrat. to tell us to get along with itotherwise the money will be shut off. the answer is that we will answer the question as to whether the money will be shut off
our chairman is a most careful and conscientious worker on the district subcommittee. and he has been for years. probably one is more intimately acquainted with all facets of the government of the district than is our chairman. the senator from west virginia. that kledge. i take it. includes activities of the highway department. i assume that our chairman is  only generally. but also specifically. familiar with the plans of the highway department with regard to the interstate highway system. is that a fair statement.
this is the end result. the highway commissioner. the engineering commissioner. and mr. tobriner both have said: you have appropriated money for all of these things. you must have authorized them. therefore. they are authorized. therefore. you are finished. that is. in fact.  what happened. we do  look at where a bridge will be built. determine how big it will be. or how wide it will be.
how can the senator from west virginia say that the appropriations committee has approved of anything when. as in the case of the three sisters bridge. the location of the bridge has  even been determined as yet. this seems to be using words in a way that is completely unrealistic. i believe that the chairman has presented the issue well. to me. at least. it has been helpful in understanding the issue. i should like to see if i can restate the question. the chairman feels that the highway department of the state and the highway department of the district. in conjunction with the federal bureau of roads. should decide where the interstate system should go. including the question as to where in cities it should be located. how many lanes wide the highways should be. and whether the road should or should  go through park land. there would be the question as to whether it should be tunneled and whether it should destroy any number of houses or . and that. without hindrance. the legislative bodies of the state should appropriate moneys without looking at the details of the program and what the money would accomplish. the congress of the united states should do the same thing with respect to the districts share of the interstate highway program. therefore. there is one to pass upon the question except the highway department of the state. or of the district of columbia. and the bureau of roads. it is my understandingand the bureau of public roads has told me this many timesthat it will  look at the question of esthetics. it is interested in whether the project is ecoical and whether it is sound from the standpoint of safety. that ends their participation in any dialog about the kind of roads that are to be built anywhere. i am sure the senator from west virginia has had a similar understanding with respect to this from the bureau of public roads. it will  suffer itself to be treated as an arbiter of whether a road should go through city a or city b. that is up to the state highway department. all that the bureau of public roads passes upon is whether this is the least expensive road and is adequate in its safety and other transportation features. is that a fair statement.
the recommendations are made by the highway department. without question. studies are made in that way. appropriations are made by the committee on appropriations after it determines whether it will look at what will happen or . the senator from new jersey is  insensible to the difficulties of roadbuilding or the need to stand against corruption or political interference for unworthy purposes.
i should like to give one example which i believe is right on the point. from the city of newark west. an eastwest throughway has long been needed to get out into the country. into pennsylvania. and the rest of the nation. such a proposed roadway was made a part of the interstate system. when the time came to design it. the cheapest way to run the highway was at grade. and in a few places where the grade dropped. perhaps up upon an embankment. this would have destroyed great values in the city of newark and in the outlying villages of the oranges. through which the road was to run. an effort was made to obtain additional money from the federal government to depress the road. so that it would  have the destructive effect everyone agreed it would have. it was impossible to obtain the money. it was only because * the state highway department and local and governmental leaders finally. in cooperation with the legislature. worked out a system for increasing parkway tolls. that a way was devised to run the road across the parkway. either over or under it. as it was decided. using additional state revenues for this purpose. that is an instance in which the state legislature took a direct interest and a controlling interest in how that important road was to be built. and the effect it would have on the environment through which it passed. i regard the whole interstate system in the district as a paramount matter. this does  involve the building of a city street. it is the running of a tremendons new type of interstate highway into and through a city. this i regard as a matter of such consequence as to require congress. as the equivalent of a state legislature. to take ice of the problem and to deal with it effectively.
i am sure the senator credits my statement about what this proposal would do. the road is planned. as i am sure the senator ks. to go under the lincoln memorial and on top of potomac parkway. it would take in its course on the ground roughly 100 acres from the park100 acres from the precious land of the districtand then go underground to the end of the tidal basin. where it would rise and join the myriad of whirls and twists of concrete. in that miraculous way in which roads are built . to connect with the 14th street bridge. i ask the senator again. does he think that is a good idea.
. i regard this as much more than a matter of wording. much more than a matter of general forms. i regard it as a matter of substance. are we or are we  going to have the interstate highway system run over 100 acres of potomac park. are we or are we  going to have the interstate highway system run up rock creek park at grade. or. in any event. permit it to go to a width of 150. 200. 250. or 300 feet across the park and permit this to be done without the return of any parkland to the district of columbia. in that area or anywhere else. these are substantive questions that are before us.. it is  a matter of words as to whether there is legislative authority up to . it is  what we have done. it is what we ought to do. in my opinion. the delay required for us to decide and then take action in order to do what we ought to do here is very fortunate.
. in todays new york times appears a letter from our colleague. the junior senator from pennsylvania. in regard to rail service in the theastern united states. senator scott emphasizes that improved rail facilities are the most ecoical answer to the transportation needs of this great section of the united states. i fully support this. i support. too. his completely sound position that development of high speed150 miles per hourpassenger service in the bostonwashington corridor be undertaken forthwith. like him. i believe that the federal government should sponsor research on exotic ground transportation systems. but this should  be done at the expense of improvement in conventional rail transportation which can be undertaken forthwith to meet our immediate needs and those of the next 10 to 15 years. action as well as research is essential here. we need . and we must . sacrifice either of these for the other. we must meet the needs both of the next decade and of the next century. s. 1588. which is still pending in the commerce committee. is designed to provide a measurei think much too littleof federal financial assistance toward both our immediate and our longterm objectives. i hope it will be strengthened and enacted into law promptly. of course. e of this deals with aher emously important transportation problem. namely. that of mass transit for our urban and suburban areas. here again the federal assistance which has thus far been offered falls far short of the need. but that is an other story which also involves the slow. ness of our states to provide the leadership. both individual and collective. which would justify federal assistance on the scale which the problem requires. i ask unanimous consent that senator scotts letter to the times be printed in full at this point in the record.
. i was delighted that the senate passed s. 1588 which provides for a 3year program of research and development in the field of highspeed ground transportation in the theastern united states. enactment of this legislation will be a step in the right direction for the future of the passenger railroad industry and i was glad to vote for it. but. as i have stated elsewhere and  repeat. i think this measure will provide much too little federal financial assistance toward both our immediate objective of improved conventional highspeed passenger service and our longterm objectives involving the more exotic means of ground transportation. we must meet the needs both of the next decade and of the next century. and while the bill is designed to provide some assistance in meeting both objectives. a far greater effort will be required in order to reach real solutions. i am disappointed that the bill was  substantially strengthened by the commerce committee. i point out. too. that hing in the bill even purports to help with the problem of providing effective mass transportation systems for our urban and suburban areas. the problem in this regard involves  only a shortage of federal financial aid. but also a slowness on the part of our states in providing the needed leadership which would justify increasing federal assistance.
. the junior senator from connecticut [mr. ribicoff has won national acclaim for his diligent efforts to stimulate public discussion and action to reduce the frightful death toll on our nations highways. a new profit organization is making what i consider a useful and interesting contribution to this campaign. the safe car educational institute. using the slogan. "you cant be safe in an unsafe car." is working to convince the public. particularly young people. of the need for continuous preventive maintenance in safe driving. a guiding spirit behind the formation of the institute is purolator products. inc.. of my hometown of rahway. n.j. purolator originated the safe car educational institute and is its chief supporter. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at this point an article from petroleum marketer for june 1965. which explains the work of the safe car educational institute.
. i am. delighted. that the senate has passed the bill authorizing a. rail rapid transit system. for the district of columbia. the battle to get this bill through the congress has been long. and frustrating and i am glad that we are  successful. while there is reason to be elated.. our sense of accomplishment must be tempered by the kledge that the. program will  be fully implemented until its financing has: been provided for. the bill provides. that in addition to the sale of revenue bonds to cover $281 million of the $431 million cost. it will be necessary to appropriate $100 million from the federal treasury and permit the district. to. exceed its borrowing authority by $50: million to cover the remainder of the cost. in other words. because congress controls the purse strings of the district as well as its. general affairs.. it will be necessary to appropriate a total of $150 million to complete. the financing of this project. this: appropriation then is a potential.. targetand a. large targetfor those who would seek to undermine the program by denying it necessary funds. only by fully funding the program willwe see the successful development of a rail rapid transit system for the. district of columbia. this is time to relax our effort.
 johnson. who has so admirably launched the "beautify america" campaign. would in this crucial test fall to support his secretary of the interior. secretary udall has pointed out that areas of potomac park already occupied by recent interstate highway projects for the approaches to the theodore roosevelt bridge. the 14th street bridges and the washington channel bridge total 37.3 acres. valued by the secretary at almost $70 million. compensation to our citys park system has been made for any of this land. it is e too soon to apply the principle for which i have long been contending. namely. that if park land is to be taken anywhere for highways or any other purpose. at least the dollar value of the land so taken must be fully accounted for. but. though the hour is late. the secretarys proposal can still save what remains of potomac park.
madam president. as the original senate sponsor of the national driver register service. i am delighted that the highway safety legislation introduced by the senator from west virginia provides for expansion of the service. in the last session of congress. i introduced my own bills. 1379to expand the scope of the driver register service. that bill is presently before the senate commerce committee. while my bill differs from the randolph measure in a few technical details. both have the same important objectiveto broaden the work of the driver register service so that it can play an even greater role in reducing the carnage on our highways. we have been told that a record 49.000 americans died in traffic accidents last year. and that millions more were injured. the president has pointed out that the death toll on our streets and highways since the automobile was introduced is 1.500.000-"more than all the combat deaths suffered in all of our wars." it is clear that our efforts to improve traffic safety have been inadequate and that action on a national scale is  required. it is also clear. i think. that the improvement of highway safety goes beyond upgrading the design and construction of automobiles and their components. though this is important. too. much also needs to be done to rid our highways of the reckless driver. the national driver register service is a key weapon in the battle against carelessness on our roads. the service presently is a clearinghouse which provides the states with information about drivers who have been denied licenses for either of two reasonsdriving while intoxicated or conviction of a traffic violation involving a fatality. if any of these motorists attempt to obtain a drivers license in aher state. it is possible for the motor vehicle agency in that state to check overnight on their past records through the driver register service. since 1961. when the service was established in the commerce department largely through my efforts. the drs has checked millions of names and identified 110.750 individuals whose applications for drivers licenses the states might want to deny on the basis of their records. while the record of the service indicates progress in the drive against reckcxii- 329part 4 less motorists. the mounting slaughter on our highways makes it clear than the campaign must be intensified. my bill would help bring this about by expanding the present national driver register to include information on all revocations or suspensions of 30 days or more. regardless of the reason for taking away an individuals permission to drive a motor vehicle. while congress ponders longrange programs for combatting the soaring highway fatality rate. this is one step for greater safety that can be taken at once. we can help the states to crack down even harder on the reckless drivera relatively small expansion of the national driver registration service will enable it to do a far more effective job.
. i introduce for my colleague. the junior senatorfrom new jersey emr. williams] and for myself. a bill to provide additional time for proceedings involving -contested passenger train discontinuances. our bill would amend section 13a(2) -of the interstate commerce act which .deals with the discontinuance of passenger trains in intrastate commerce. under existing law. state proceedings in intrastate cutbacks are restricted to the 120 days which follow a railroads application for relief. if. during the 120 days allowed -under the existing law. a state public utility commission does . or can. reach a decision on a discontinuance application. the railroad is free to carry its case to the interstate commerce commission. this means that the state. or -other representatives of the public. have only 4 months from the time the application is first filed to prepare and present a factual. reasoned case for the public interest in a typically complicated matter. the bill we propose would extend this period to 180 daysor 6 months. four months may seem like a long while. but it is really quite limited. particularly if the carrier is  cooperative in providing data on its profits and losses. and if the public has difficulty in finding a railroadoriented cost accountant to - examine and make sense out of the carriers balance sheets. the cost accountant is an important factor because. i am advised. there is .only a small handful in the country who specialize in railroad operations. while the railroad can work on its case for months. if  years. before it files a discontinuance application. few. if any. states have the staff to do this.  can they afford to keep a firm of consultants on the payroll in anticipation of some future cutback action by a railroad. the general public is at an even greater disadvantage because it must. first. depend on the state to provide profitandloss data which may be late in arriving from the railroad. and second. must organize itself townbyaffectedtown. and even organizationbyorganization. obtaining witnesses from among kledgeable volunteers willing and able to take time from their jobs to testify before a public utility commission. the handicap confronting the public is clearly illustrated in the present effort by the erielackawanna railroad to discontinue 287 passenger trains which serve 8 new jersey counties. a move that would affect 35.000 commuters. the erie filed its application with the state puc on january 5. hearings began before the puc on january 26. but it was  until about february 1 that the state could find and engage a washington. d.c.. transportation cost accountant to handle the mammoth job of examining the railroads books. this left very little time for the consultant to do his job properly. moreover. it was . in fact. until about march 12only a few weeks before the puc hearings concludedthat the consultant received the last of the data supplied by the railroad. even with a 7dayaweek research effort throughout this whole period. the consultant found that his staff had been able to examine only about half the documents supplied to it. it is clear that lack of time to prepare adequately can only serve to damage. if  wreck. the publics effort to prove its case for continuation of a particular railroad service. too much is riding on the provision of adequate commuter transportation in this country to permit individual lines to go out of business so easily. the publics convenience and comfort. the ecoic health of whole regions. and efforts to alleviate traffic congestion and air pollution are at stake. the public must be given an ample opportunity to prepare and present its case in intrastate railroad discontinuances. the present law does  assure this. it puts time on the side of the carrier rather than where it properly belongsimpartially on the side of the public interest. if further documentation is required to show why our bill is necessary. it was amply and incisively provided in a recent editorial in the newark. n.j.. sunday starledger. i ask unanimous consent that this editorial be printed at the conclusion of my remarks.
i am grateful to the senator from montana. i believe the final determination is a matter for those officials in each community who carry overall responsibility for maintaining its viability and livability. the best highway does  always run from point to point by the shortest distance. the attack on the tunneling concept iges the chorus of protest which has arisen in cities across the country. in san francisco. philadelphia. new york. and many other places. as well as in new jersey. responsible citizens are up in armsand rightly so--over the destructive impact of superhighways on their communities. on their parks. and on historical sites. highways are a necessitybut highways must be designed and located so that they do  destroy the livability and individuality of our cities. this need is especially urgent in our nations capital. if we are to retain washingtons historic heritage. if we are to maintain the livability and charm of our capital city. extra pains must be taken to make certain in our highway buildingand in all other public projectswe give attention to the full range of community needs. both tangible and intangible. tunneling highways should be viewed as an opportunity as an obstacle. it offers the possibility of improving transportation within our cities and suburbs while at the same time protecting neighborhoods. businesses. parks. and other open spaces. i called attention to this on the senate floor last august 2 after reading an article which discussed the feasibility of building tunneled highways. the thrust of the article was that tunnels are getting cheaper to build and operate. and open highways more expensive. therefore. it would be useful to consider putting many of our new roads underground in congested areas. the concept of tunneling was endorsed last year by federal highway administrator rex whitton at a national capital planning commission meeting on the alinement of the south leg highway through west potomac park. and only a few days ago. i might add. mr. whitton joined in a statement that found "attractive" a plan to construct aher segment of the local highway system under a main thoroughfare. it is true. indeed. that parks are  the private preserve of anyone. they are for all the people to enjoy. but they will  exist for anyone if we permit them to be overrun by modern. multilane superhighways. in our increasingly urbanized society. more parks and other recreation areas are needed fewer. too much of our precious and limited park land already has been swallowed up. i shall shortly introduce legislation designed to stem the steady erosion of park land in the united states. under my bill. among other things. park land taken for highways and other park purposes would. as a matter of course. have to be replaced by equivalent land elsewhere. adoption of this principle of compensation in kind is long overdue. it is certainly desirable everywhere. it is essential in our cities if any urban parks at all are to be saved. under my recommendation. the park land taken would have to be replaced acre for acreor. if you will. foot for foot. we hear much talk about preservation of natural beauty in this country. commendably. the first lady is pressing a campaign to make everyone conscious of the need to do his part in this effort. yet at the very moment when this campaign is reaching its climax. it is clear from the statement that spurred my remarks and from the threat of highway construction in the midst of the worldfamous cherry blossoms. that some federal officials still have  gotten the message.
. for some time  i have spoken out on the need to protect this nations shrinking parkland from further encroachment by highway building and other public projects. my concern has extended to projects. particularly highway building projects. which would scar or destroy parkland in such widely separated places as the redwood forests of california and west potomac park in the district of c61umbia. in the case of west potomac park. i repeatedly have urged that the highway planned for this area be placed completely in a tunnel. i also have urged that the longoverdue principle of "compensation in kind" be adopted with regard to the taking of parks and other open spaces. under this principle. every acreevery footof parkland swallowed up for public projects would have to be replaced in like amount--and like qualityby other open space. the urgency of applying this principle to protect our precious and limited parkland is underscored by the renewed threat to rock creek park in our nations capital. according to recent newspaper reports. some regional planners view the area of the park as the ideal location for a freeway connecting washington with the maryland suburbs. the reasons for turning down this scheme were summed up admirably in a recent editorial in the washington post. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
. i make comment on the legal aspects of the new jersey public utility commissions decision in the erielackawanna case. but its practical effect is clear. railroad commuter service in our metropolitan new jerseynew york region is about to be reduced still further. by  everyone should k that you can help ailing railroads by lopping off a fewor manytrains. invariably the effect is to accelerate the downhill slide by driving the evershrinking band of patrons to other. more convenient. more dependable means of transportation. commuter passenger service will survive only if the commuter can be attracted back to the trains. but to do this will require providing frequent. reliable. ontime. comfortable trains and safe. clean. attractive terminals. this. in turn. will require. as i long have urged. the development of a unified. balanced transportation system to serve the whole region.  just a few parts of it. and it  seems clear that we can longer avoid the conclusion that such a coordinated system can be provided only by a competent. bistate or tristate agency.
under the bill. the driver register service would be broadened to permit the register to list the names of additional categories of problem drivers whose licenses have been either revoked or suspended. however. there would be one exception. the exception would exempt from coverage those motorists who are deprived of their driving privileges for 6 months or less because of habitual violation. the bulk of those in this category. i am told. would be individuals whose licenses would be taken away under a state point system. my amendment is designed to bring more of these bad drivers within the coverage of the register. and thereby help improve highway safety. it would accomplish this by reducing the 6month exception in s. 3005 to 90 days. while i would have preferred a 30day limitation. and previously introduced a bill to this effect. i believe 90 daysas opposed to 6 monthsis a step in the right direction. and will make more effective the new role we are carving out for the national driver register service.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill which would provide for construction of two ship maneuvering areas and widening a portion of the channel in newark bay. on june 16. two ships collided in the bay off the southerly tip of bayonne. with a heavy loss of life. only a short time before that. aher vessel rammed the jersey central railroad drawbridge which crosses the bay and which is very near the scene of the june 16 disaster. fortunately one was killed in the earlier accident. but thousands of rail commuters whose trains use the drawbridge were inconvenienced. ship movements in newark bay alone. i am advised. have almost doubled in a decadefrom 25.784 in 1954 to 42.334 in 1964. in roughly the same period. 39 ship accidents have occurred in the bay. while i have asked the coast guard to make a full study of maritime traffic and accidents in all of new york harbor. i believe we need study to demonstrate that certain specific steps must be taken. and taken quickly. to improve safety in newark bay. my bill is designed to do this by providing for: first. two ship maneuvering areasone th and one south of the jersey central drawbridge. one important purpose of these areas would be to permit a vessel to wait while aher ship passes. thus avoiding competition for space in the presently narrow channel. the cost of the work would be $3.098.000 and would be borne by the federal government. second. widening of the channel for a short distance both above and below the jersey central drawbridge. the army corps of engineers believes this improvement would make it easier for ships. particularly the larger variety cargo vessels  in service. to aline themselves with the drawbridge before passing beneath it. the cost of this project would be $835.000. again. the cost would be borne by the federal government. these projects have been approved by the army corps of engineers. by the departments of the interior. commerce. and health. education. and welfare. and. i am told. by the gover of new jersey and his commissioner of conservation and ecoic development. however. they still must be authorized by congress before money can be appropriated. it is my hope that both steps can be taken during the present session so that this important work may be undertaken without unnecessary delay. spokesmen for the army engineers tell me the maneuvering areas. as well as the partial channel widening. will add immeasurably to navigation safety in newark bay.
. in general i am glad to support the bills. 1175that the senator from washington recently introduced at the request of the interstate commerce commission. this measure would amend section 13(a) of the interstate commerce actthe section that deals with both interstate and intrastate discontinuance of passenger trains and ferries. the provisions of this measure are. to a degree. in line with my own longstanding efforts to breathe a little elemental justicefrom the standpoint of the trainriding publicinto section 13(a) of the commerce act. better kn. perhaps as the transportation act of 1958. at present the provisions of 13(a) which govern interstate train and ferry discontinuances are weighted heavily against the public. many of us. for example. recall the weehawken ferry discontinuance which the icc permitted to "happen" without taking any action. as we learned in that case. when the commission refuses to act. a passenger service  only can be dropped at will. but the publics chance for a review in the courts is lost permanently congress approved the 1958 transportation act chiefly to provide improved regulatory procedures and financial assistance to the railroads. it did  intend that wholesale curtailment of essential passenger service should be the result. yet this is what has happened. as far back as the late 1950s and early 1960s. i sponsored legislation to deal with the problems 13 (a) has caused the commuting public. particularly in the thern new jerseynew york city metropolitan area. this legislation sought to eliminate the present unworkable 4month period in which the icc must decide complex interstate discontinuance cases. require the railroads to justify the reasons why passenger trains should be eliminated rather than forcing the public to shoulder the burden of proof. assure the public the right of appeal to the courts in all interstate curtailments. empower the commission. in acting on discontinuances. to impose whatever conditions it found the public interest required. and. provide the commission with discretionary authority to impose employee protective provisions. all of these points. except employee protective provisions. are dealt with and. to some degree. met by s. 1175. railroad employees whose jobs are threatened by interstate discontinuances should. i believe. be assured the same protection as is routinely accorded their fellow workers who lose their jobs because of abandonments. under such a provision in interstate cases. the icc might or might  impose employee protective provisions. as it saw fit. and if the commission did so. it would have complete discretion as to the conditions it imposes. while s. 1175 would assure the public the right of appeal in cases where the icc investigates an interstate discontinuance. it would  deal with the publics lack of legal recourse in cases. such as the weehawken ferry discontinuance. which the icc chooses to ige.  does s. 1175 meet the problem existing in some states which have  asserted jurisdiction over the discontinuance of interstate passenger service. in these states. the carriers may drop trains and ferries at will. and the commission can do hing about it. the reason is that the commissions jurisdiction is mandatory only in total abandonment cases. but  in the discontinuance of a portion of a railroads service. i believe both of these defects can be corrected by requiring the railroads to obtain affirmative authority from the icc. or from state public agencies. whenever they seek to eliminate interstate passenger service. under 13(a). affirmative approval by the commission is required for the discontinuance of intrastate trains. if a railroad seeks relief through the icc. the provision i suggest would. in substance. make the same requirement applicable in the case of interstate trams. in the days ahead i intend to introduce legislation to close these loopholes and to assure the commuter his day in court. this legislation also will deal with defects in the intrastate discontinuance procedures of 13 (a). i point out. however. that striking the inequities from 13(a) is only one needed step in dealing with our passenger railroad crisis. particularly mass transit in the metropolitan areas. the rebirth of the passenger railroads will require far wiser and more imaginative policies by all levels of government. and .by the railroad industry. too. than have been in evidence heretofore.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. an amendment to the oil pollution act of 1924. as it was amended by congress last year. the purpose of my amendment is to delete a single word slipped into the act by a housesenate conference committee in the dying days of the 89th congress. and to restore language approved by the senate. this one word has made the laws provision prohibiting the spillage of oil in inland or territorial waters virtually unenforceable. the crippling effect was accomplished by changing the definition of oil discharge as spelled out in the 1966 senate amendment to the act. under the new law the government must prove that a vessel was "grossly" negligent in any case involving a discharge of oil. this. i am told authoritatively. has placed an almost impossibly onerous burden of proof on the federal government. as a result. the justice department recently disclosed. according to the april 16 new york times. that it has  filed a single oil pollution case in the inland and territorial water category since the law was amended last ember 3. previously. justice says. it prosecuted about 100 or more cases a year. the crippling of the oil pollution act leaves our shores virtually defenseless against the tanker which dumps oil at sea. within recent days. stretches of the new jersey coastline and the beaches of cape cod were fouled by oil. off the shores of new jersey alone. hundreds of helpless sea birds have been killed by the massive oil slicks. apparently only a lucky tide. which seems to have carried the oil out to sea. has spared new jersey the same fate that befell the english and french coasts from the sunken tanker torreycanyon. amending the oil pollution act. as my bill would do. is only one step that must be taken to protect our shores from oil pollution. for one thing. i believe the coast guard must institute systematic oil pollution patrols in territorial waters. the coast guard has advised me that it does  conduct such patrols at present. relying for its information on happenstance sightings made and reported by military or civilian ships and planes moving about on other business. i am bringing this situation to the attention of the coast guard and am asking that patrols be undertaken as quickly as possible. for aher thing. i agree with theodore r. rogowski. an assistant solicitor for water pollution control in the department of the interior. that the corps of engineers should take a broader view of its enforcement authority under the refuse act. aher means for controlling water pollution. and "be vigorous in recommending prosecution under that act." if either the corps of engineers or the coast guard find themselves unable to carry out their responsibilities for effective enforcement of these antipollution acts because of lack of funds. theirs is also the responsibility to ask congress for -the necessary appropriations. as a member of the senate appropriations committee. i stand ready to assist in providing additional funding. we want torrey canyon incidents off the new jersey or massachusetts coasts. or any other coastal portion of the united states.
. those portions of the interstate highway system that have already been completed and are in use have certainly proven their worth. equally important with meeting traffic needs. are the safety features that a modern highway meeting interstate system standards provides. in 1966 there were approximately 53.000 traffic fatalities in our nation. this is an appalling figure. recent figures provided by the national safety council show that the mileage death rate on the completed portions of the interstate system currently is about 2.9 deaths per 100 million miles of travel or 2.650 fatalities. nearly 23.500 miles of the system were in operation at the end of 1966. and during that year carried 91 billion miles of travel. if deaths during this amount of travel had occured at a rate of 7.5. which was the rate on all rural roads in the nation in 1966. there would have been about 4.000 more deaths during the year than actually occurred. funds for the construction of the interstate system are derived from the trust fund which was established by congress and administered by the federal bureau of public roads. which is financed primarily through taxes on petroleum products used in motor vehicles. this fund is selfsustaining. and the revenues are derived solely from those making use of our roads. i hope the senate will give early consideration and approval to my bill which would expand our great interstate highway system.
 i believe there is very little difference among all of us with respect to our understanding of the problem with which we are dealing. the senator from nevada has pointed out the expense entailed in perfectly proper travel in connection with the performance of his official duties. and that present senatorial allowances are  adequate to cover this. and i agree. we disagree on this point: the wisdom of providing what even the senator from mississippi suggests is a kind of stopgap. until serious consideration is given by the senate to a permanent solution of the problem. i believe this is the chief vicei use the word "vice"  in the sense of any bad will or anything of that sort--of this amendment.
 of the national academy of sciences. the administrator of the national aeronautics and space administration as constituting a sewing circle. these are administration officials of the highest character. with deep involvement in problems with which the sonic boom is also deeply involved. i am sure that if it were  for the fact that this is my amendment and differs from his bill. and if the situation were reversed. these would be the highest type of public officials. with dedication to their duty and great competence. i accept the fact that they are. that is why the senator from wisconsin and i have made these officials participants in the study proposed in this amendment. we need the resources of all the departments represented in the amendment to be brought to bear on this problem. and we want the final decision to be made by the representative of all the people. the congress of the united states. and  a bureaucracy. i am  damning the federal aviation administration at all. but it is a narrow. singleminded instrument for the development of aviation. that is fine. but what in the world. has safety of air passengers got to do with the general effects of sonic boom on the american environment. that agency should  be given that responsibility. which is inconsistent with the performance of the specific duty which we have given that agency to perform. let us. the congress of the united states. make the decision and the general evaluation of the interests and concerns of all the people in relation to this problem. that is what this amendment would do. the. amendment would  hold up anything. we would get to work immediately. as the senator from oklahoma has stated. there are a good many surveys underway in this field. our amendment would have them all drawn together and their results coordinated and focused into a single report to the congress of the united states. which would then make up its mind. and the public would k what the considerations were that had been studied. and the whole public would have a place to go to. congress is the natural instrument for public decisions of great moment. that is what we propose here.
it is highly important that we all understand the issue. are we going to let the federal aviation agency. which is totally responsible. and at least involved in a deep conflict of interest. make the decision for all the people. or are we going to reserve that decision. which should be our responsibility unless the senator from wisconsin desires to use additional time.
i feel the way the chairman does about this matter. i also share the concern of the senator from arizona. but. this is  a good thing to do. insofar as techniques go. it is a very contagious thing. in the other body. the chairman of the subcommittee on appropriations for the district of columbia has refused to allow anything to go in for a rapid transit system. which congress has authorized many times over. until  congress approved the funds for roads but until the roads were being constructed. that is wrong. too. it is aher example of the way in which congress can. if it pursues its power to the last extremity. bring this government to its knees and bring all government activity in the united states to a standstill. i think it is unwise to proceed in this fashion.
 of united community funds and councils of america: it can be said too often that a large measure of the strength of this nation lies in the spirit of its people working in common purpose for a common cause. it is a spirit that has never failed us. but that is always being put to test.  it is to be tested again. a common cause to which we have traditionally responded is the annual campaign of the united community funds and councils of america. this year. the funds and councils have substantially augmented the goal of their local campaigns throughout the country. i am pleased to endorse that goal. for i have confidence in our capacity to meet the challenge of human service. and in the success of our voluntary way of getting things done. the american volunteer has long been a keeper of our national spirit. and the united community funds and councils of america provide an inspiring example of the volunteers role in our daily lives. i urge all americans to join this worthy effort by generously supporting its local campaigns. we are a nation of barnraisers in spirit. the campaign of the united community funds and councils is our opportunity to raise a sturdy barn." /s/ richard nixon. ship of united community campaigns of america for 1969. under his volunteer leadership. support is being mobilized in the national community in business. government. labor. communications. the professions. miity groups. and other forces to augment the efforts of each of the 2.250 united way campaigns. the total of all local united fund goals which are currently being determined in each community is expected to be substantially increased over last years $755 million to meet the critical needs for new and stronger services. the united way is the epitome of the democratic. voluntary approach of helping to satisfy some of our nations domestic demands. it truly is a refreshing and encouraging situation when in these times. millions of people from every k and corner of this country are willing to work together voluntarily without pay to support and extend programs to alleviate our nations human problems. mr. macbain and mr. wheeler and all of the 18 million volunteers are to be greatly commended. and deserve the support of every american.
. many of my colleagues will remember representative gordon canfield. of new jersey. who served with great distinction for 20 years in the house. his deep interest and work in behalf of the coast guard earned for him the title of "father of the coast guard reserve." mr. canfield has called my attention to a story which appeared in the mayjune issue of the review. a publication of the defense supply association. i ask unanimous consent to enter in the record "the magnificent matchbox feet." h. r. kaplans vivid account of the role played by 50 u.s. coast guard cutters on dday. june 6. 1944. it is eloquent testimony to the coast guards continued efforts today to maintain its reputation as the smallest military component in constant readiness for peace or war time service.
i oppose the tydings amendment in h.r. 14465 giving the secretary of transportation authority to force a jetport upon a metropolitan area whether the area wants one or . i urge instead that the amendment to section 206(g) (1) of the bill. sponsored by senator williams of new jersey and myself. be accepted in place of the tydings amendment. section 206 is opposed by the secretary of transportation who does  want the authority it would confer upon him. the provision was defeated in the house by a vote of 90 to 54. in my judgment it should be defeated in the senate by an equally wide margin. as reported by the senate commerce committee. section 206 empowers the secretary of transportation to decide that a metropolitan area requires an additional jetport and actually to pick the site if state and local officials can agree on a site within a 3year period. proponents argue that they only want to induce the governing bodies of a metropolitan area to come to a decision of their own regarding a suitable location for a jet terminal. but the fact is that section 206 gives the secretary naked power to make the selection himself if they can agree. those favoring 206 are wrong. i believe. if they think forcing a decision on local officials will bring the result they desire. as secretary of transportation volpe recognized in a letter he wrote to me last december 12. this failure to agree and lack of local consensus may well continue into the developmental phase and effectively prevent action by any local public agency to sponsor the project to develop an airport on the site the secretary selects. the proposed assumption of federal control over site selection in metropolitan areas contrasts sharply with aher provision of section 206 giving metropolitan areas a veto over airports they do  want. regardless of the secretarys position in the matter. in other words. in metropolitan areas. section 206 makes the voice of the public decisive. in heavily populated regions. where major developments can be undertaken lightly. the publics views could be disregarded. how outrageous it would be to compel the people of new jersey or of any other state to pay even a part of the cost of a jetport they do  want. under our amendment the secretary could use his good offices to facilitate selection of a jet port site in a metropolitan area. this approach recognizes that the federal governments role in the orderly expansion of our national airport system is that of partner with the states.  of dominating figure. since it is the public which must live with the profound environmental changes wrought by construction of jet airports. site selection should be left to decisionmaking by the public through the appropriate state and local governmental bodies. this is essential insofar as new jersey is concerned. for new jersey. like other overcrowded areas of the country. must conserve its precious open space. little of which remains. in new jersey we are constantly fighting to maintain even a semblance of a livable environment. i believe we can expect the head of any outside agency. especially the secretary of transportationwhose job it is to develop and expand transportation facilities. and whose whole point of view understandably is directed toward expanding transportation at whatever the cost to other valuesto protect our vital open space against invasion. i believe it will serve the public interest. and certainly the cause of a more livable environment. to follow the houses approach on airport site selection. i urge the adoption of the amendment. . i ask unanimous consent that the letter from secretary volpe. referred to in my remarks. be printed in the record at this point.
. the junior senator from new york has pointed up the issue. i think. in his reference to a decision by the secretarythat is what is involveda decision by the federal government. regardless of the wishes of a state. we are  talking about a village. we are  talking about local residents. a handful of them. we are talking about a sovereign state of the united states and its duly elected representatives. the secretary may decide that that state shall have a major jetport. i think the senator was right also when he suggested that the proposed substitute is very close to the provisions of the committee bill in substance. in effect. i would suggest that it is identical. i think that is pointed up by the other section of the airport site selection provision which says that in metropolitan areas. there shall be such power as this. that is the difference. the suggestion that my colleague from new jersey and i make to this body is that the way to leave the matter is to leave it as it has always been leftthat if the appropriate group in any state decides that it does  want a major jetport. it does  have to have one crammed down its throat. we are  talking about just a location. we are talking about a decision as to whether there shall be an airport or . i suggest to you that this kind of decision is  one we want. contrary to all tradition and custom in this country.  placed in the hands of the federal government.
if the senator will permit me to engage further in colloquy with my delightful friend at this time. the senator assumes something we are  assuming. there has been conclusive determination that we need a fourth jetport in the metropolitan area or that that is the only solution of our problem. there are many alternatives. i think. for the benefit of the whole area. some of them ought to be considered more fully. the argument goes to the point of assuming that all authorities and experts agree on this. let us assume that all the experts in road transportation agree that there should be four highways crossing new york city to carry traffic between new jersey. the south. and the west. to new england. the citizens of new york city do  like that. they say. "yes. there ought to be more highways. but they ought to be put around through westchester or somewhere else." the location with regard to our major interstate roads is left to the sovereign states to decide. and so it should be here. all these horrendous suggestions of disaster mean that eyes and ears have been shut to other possible solutions. that is so here. it is said that only such a solution. a fourth jetport. is acceptable. that is a shortrange solution. and i believe it ought  to be accepted and forced down the throat of the people who live there. because living conditions. far more than any temporary solution in what probably is a transitory form of transportation. ought to count here. that is why it is so utterly basic and sound that we leave the decision in the hands of the people of the area and  in any central government. impelled by any temporary sense of importance and need. to decide these questions against the wishes of the people whose lives are affected.
. first. i just wish to state that i have just had reconfirmed the administration position. really. they do  want any of these positions. they do  want to have to say that the position of the senators from new york is utterly unacceptable. but they prefer the williamscase amendment to the other two alternatives. i think that is a fair and conservative statement of the administration position. for such weight as the members of this body feel it should be given. second. just one point in response to the statement of the senator from new york: we are  dealing with this as a el proposition. we are dealing with it against a history in which. for years. the port of new york authority tried to have this jetport placed in the most desirable part of new jersey. one of the few remaining areas where there is still a bit of natural beauty and green space. so we are very sensitive about the issue. and we are dealing with it.  as a general proposition. but against this background. which gives the matter and the issue particular meaning to our state.
. i am concerned that such useful railroad passenger projects as the metroliner be included in the basic passenger rail system expected to be designated by the secretary of transportation. i wonder if the senator can give us any assurance that this will be done.
. in general terms. with the exception of the sst. i support the bill wholeheartedly. i am particularly gratified by. the businesslike way in which it has been handled. most of all. i want to make kn my complete concurrence in the action of the committee. under the leadership of the senator from nevada. in eliminating any ceiling on the mass transit appropriation. on mass transit spending. of the nature the house placed in the bill. that. i think. is emously important. if this is to be a real rather than a paper program. it is essential in the interest of all our great cities and many of our smaller cities. too. that the mass transit program be converted into reality as quickly as possible. the chairman was most cooperative in this matter. although perhaps i was the initiating force in eliminating any ceiling in the bill. i had his full cooperation and i here want to express that thought. i hope it does him harm in his own constituency.
the bill is a big one. i wish it were bigger in some respects. i wish it had a little bit less money for concrete highways and more money for steel rail transit in the bigger cities. but we did  do too badly as far as mass transit went.
the figure the house took is the amount that had been appropriated for the program in a prior year. the matter came to the senate. at the time the senate dealt with it. i am happy to say that we had the benefit of a program authorized in law for mass transit covering 5 years and the expenditure or obligation of roughly $3.100.000.000.
. questions have been raised in regard to the status or possible status of the new jersey central railroad under the bill. a matter of great importance to the state of new jersey and i think to pennsylvania also. and perhaps going beyond that. would the manager of the bill. the distinguished senator from indiana. give his understanding as to whether the jersey central railroad would be eligible to apply for assistance under the bill. if it passes and becomes law.
. for a decade or more we have been hearing about revolutionizing civil aviation with development of a supersonic transport capable of going twice or three times the speed of sound. in the united states. the kennedy administration decided to undertake to build the biggest.. fastest plane of all. the venture would be financed largely with federal funds. estimates of the cost to the federal government have ranged from $1.3 billion toward the development of two experimental models. or prototypes. to upwards of $5 billion if the government is obliged to finance the expensive production phase. there always have been many who have doubted the planes soundness. their ranks have grown over the years and finally. i believe. the majority of the people of the country are against the sst. i think it is accepted by most that environmental and ecoic concerns are the underlying factors in the growing public opposition to the sst. also. there is a wellfounded feeling that the funds could be used more profitably for more urgent national needs. first the environment. everyone agrees that an sst flying faster than the speed of sound will generate sonic booms which will be an intolerable anance to those who hear them. the booms may even cause physical damage. because of this i introduced the first bill to prohibit commercial supersonic flight over the continental united states. i am happy to say that legislation embodying the principle of my bill has passed the senate twice since december. but there is a question whether the sst is ecoically feasible if overland flights are  permitted. moreover the sst engines. as presently designed. will cause intolerable sideline se as the plane prepares to take off. while the department of transportation states that it has made progress in reducing the racket. it is  willing to put the "quieter" engines on the prototypes for all to see and hear. and it is agreed that se suppression equipment will cut down the efficiency of the plane and will reduce its ecoic viability. but our anxiety about the ssts environmental impact is most deeply aroused by the possibility that the plane may irreparably pollute the earths atmosphere. perhaps even reducing the ozone layer which shields our planet from the suns most lethal rays. the scientific evidence on these matters is too slight to justify any final conclusions. but it seems plain that without more kledge we dare  take a chance. i emphasize that building the prototypes is  necessary to giving us this information and that they will  help. the great weight of ecoic opinion is against the sst. ecoists from opposite ends of the spectrum. such as paul samuelson and milton friedman. oppose it. they ask the simple question: if the sst will be as profitable as its proponents claim. why  let private enterprise take over the venture. it has shown inclination to do so. the conclusion is inescapable that doubts about the ecoic soundness of the sst program extend to the aviation industry itself. i shall vote against further federal funding of the sst.
. i appreciate the chairmans consideration. it is entirely in harmony with his customary conduct and thoughtfulness for his colleagues. the amendment would add $4 million. of which $3.5 million is for the development of service for people of special needs. such as the aged and handicapped. and a half million dollars for the development of a rail bus.
i support the senators amendment. and i want the record to show that i do. in that connection. i want to make one point. and that is that i am deeply distressed at the unwillingness of the faa to give what i regard as adequate assurance to the neighborhoods and communities near airports of its consideration of their concerns about expansion. se pollution. and other nuisances that are involved. i have specifically in mind the community of morris county. n.j.. where morristown airport is located. the city of morristown has an airport which is  within the citys own geographical boundaries. but outside the community where it is located and others adjacent to it. and is properly concerned about expansion without due consideration of the needs and interests of the residents. i have been unable to get the kind of assurance that i think these communities are entitled to from the agency. but i am  going to give up trying. i fully support the amendment. partly on that account. but in general on its own merits.
. i am glad to join in sponsoring s. 768 to upgrade railroad rightsofway between boston. new york. newark. and washington. four of the major cities comprising the congested theast corridor of the united states. for example. it is hoped that improving rightsofway will make it possible to clip an hour off the present 3hour traveltime between new york and washington. d.c. if this can be done. passenger rail travel will become even more competitive with air shuttle service within the corridor. the goal under our bill is to provide such service by 1976. this certainly would be one appropriate way to celebrate our forthcoming bicentennial. our bill provides for more than $600 million to be used for financing equipment and rightofway improvements. the national railroad passenger corporation. otherwise kn as amtrak. and the army corps of engineers will share responsibility for the project. though i am a cosponsor of s. 768. i believe there are several respects in which the bill could be improved. for example. it does  spell out the roles to be played by the railroad or railroads that will be involved. by the corps of engineers or by amtrak. there also is a question as to how much rightofway should be brought under federal control through the project. in other areas. the bill may require clarification to assure: that the substantial construction work contemplated will be performed by the classes and crafts of railroad employees who are qualified and whose job it has been to do this work. that qualified furloughed railroad employees will get first crack at available work on the project. and that employee rights will be fully protected in line with laws creating such federal programs as mass transit. high speed ground transportation and amtrak. i am confident that the commerce committee in considering the bill will see that the necessary changes will be made. s. 819 at the request of mr. bayh. the senator from illis was added as a cosponsor of s. 819. a bill to authorize a national policy and program with respect to wild predatory mammals. to prohibit the poisoning of animals and birds on the public lands of the united states. to regulate the manufacture. sale. and possession of certain chemical toxicants. and for other purposes. s. 882 at the request of mr. hartke. the senator from nevada . the senator from hawaii . the senator from th dakota . the senator from delaware . and the senator from south carolina were added as cosponsors of s. 882. a bill to amend section 355 of title 38. united states code. relating to the authority of the administrator of veterans affairs to readjust the schedule of ratings for the disabilities of veterans.
. i am glad to join in sponsoring s. 1031 designed to relieve theastern railroads of the costs of rightofway maintenance. and to improve rail carrier operations in our region of the country. while there are aspects of this bill. including the provisions for protection of railroad workers. that may need improvement. i support the concept of a quasipublic agency to own. rehabilitate and manage railroad rightsofway in the theastern united states. at the same time. i believe that in return for this assistance. there must be some assurance that the railroads will improve their poor performance in the movement of people and of goods. the bill. as originally drafted. requires the secretary of transportation to advise congress. within 2 years. as to how the industry and its management are performing. but the bill stops short of requiring that the secretary go beyond this and do something if he is dissatisfied with what he finds. my amendment overcomes this deficiency at least in the theast. under my proposal. the secretary. based upon his evaluation. will be required to recommend whether any or all of the rail carrier operations within the corporations jurisdiction should be taken over by the corporation. or by local government agencies. my amendment is an essential ingredient of this bill. for it warns the railroads that the public will be looking for an improvement in their performance in return for rightofway maintenance. i am glad senator hartke. chief sponsor of the bill. agreed to incorporate my proposal in the measure he has introduced.
. the u.s. coast guard recently asked for comments on proposed ship construction standards which would require oil tankers built in the future to be equipped with double bottoms. providing space for taking on ballast water without using oil cargo tanks. because of the importance of the coast guards proposal. i submitted a statement endorsing the general concept. since then. a similar statement submitted by the center for law and social policy on behalf of a group of environmental organizations has come to my attention. because the statement by the center for law and social policy details the issues involved so well. i believe it is worthy of the attention of all members of congress. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that the statement be printed in the record.
. 15 years ago the federal aviation administration elected to locate its research center. the national aviation facilities experimental center (nafec). at pomona. n.j. the site was selected because of the special advantages which atlantic county offers. although the federal aviation administration has undertaken a review of nafec. i am confident that the considerations which led to the location of nafec at its present site are as valid today as they were 15 years ago. for this reason i have worked with the officials and citizenry of atlantic county and atlantic city in bringing their case to retain nafec to the attention of faa administrator butterfield. i was pleased when the administrator returned the study teams review and asked the team to work with local officials in finding ways to strengthen the ecoic and operational effectiveness of the facility. so that my colleagues may k the full support that nafec has in new jersey. i ask unanimous consent to print the following resolution in the record.
. i introduce today a bill to make the setting of motor vehicle standards more responsive to national needs. this bill is necessary because dot has occasionally overlooked the very significant social and ecoic consequences of their proposed standards. congress must. therefore insist that dot function in a responsible manner by assuring that each standard is warranted on safety grounds. this relatively brief amendment to the national traffic and motor vehicle safety act of 1966 requires the secretary of dot to state clearly the safety bases of any proposed standard. dot would be required to determine explicitly the scope of the safety problem addressed by the standard and the probable effectiveness of the standard in redressing the problem. the assumptions used by dot in making there safety determination must also be made public under this amendment. the amendment will permit dot. the public. and the congress the opportunity to assess the merits of each standard and the relative importance of various standards. this bill will  hinder the department from fulfilling its safety missionand will help protect the public from arbitrary administrative action. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my bill be printed in the record.
. late last week the u.s. department of transportation released the envirmental impact statement. eis. on the concord6. the eis was aimed at assessing the effect of concorde operations to jfk airport in new york and dulles airport in virginia. unfortunately. the eis attempts to obscure the significant environmental impact of the concorde. two of the major isssues referred to in the eis were se and ozone depletion. if one just reads the documents the inevitable conclusion is that serious problems exist in either of these areas. however. with perseverance and the use of a calculator the following findings emerge: se first. the concorde is twice as loud as the jumbo jets  in service. second. at up to 16 miles from the point of takeoff the level of se directly under the plane would require one to shout as loud as possible at a distance of 6 inches or less in order to be heard. third. at takeoff the concorde would cover a 70 square mile area with a se level that would require one to shout as loud as possible at a distance of 4 feet or less to be heardother sy aircraft only cover a 12.5 square mile area with such an intense se level. fourth. under current conditions the concorde would expose 97.000 more peo-
. as the ranking miity member of the subcommittee responsible for this bill. i wish merely to mention several of its more important provisions. as our chairman. the senator from rhode island. has pointed out. the central purpose is to provide the appropriation necessary to effectuate the reorganization of the bankrupt theast and midwest railroads. it is expected that these will be used to build a profitmaking railroad freight system. as mentioned also. the bill includes funds to initiate the theast corridor improvement program. this program will bring modem rail transit to the nations heaviest populated transportation corridor. and also create meaningful employment for thousands of people. new jersey has an interest in this as well as rhode island. anybody who has ridden on the railroad from here to new york ks exactly what i mean. it is ridiculous that this roadbed should be in the condition that it is in. we all strongly support the bill in this respect as in all others. i do support the bill in its entirety. in addition to the provisions i have mentioned. in order to assure the continuity of commuter rail services the bill contains appropriations for rail subsidies. these funds are necessary to reimburse commuter operators that will be adversely affected by the rail reorganization. i strongly support these provisions and urge that the bill as reported out of committee be passed by the senate.
. as ranking miity member of the senate subcommittee responsible for house joint resolution 801. i am pleased to express my support for this bill. after many hours the conferees have produced a bill that represents a careful balance between budgetary considerations and national priorities. i would like to mention some of the bills more important provisions. the central purpose of the bill is to provide the appropriations necessary to effectuate the reorganization of the bankrupt theast and midwest railroads. the bill provides $2.026 billion for this purpose. the subcommittee expects that these funds will be used to build a profit making railroad freight system. the bill also includes funds to initiate the theast corridor improvement program. by appropriating $50 million for the corridor-$35 million over the administrations budget requestthe conferees underlined the importance of this program and indicated that congress was willing to take the initiative to assure its successful completion. this program will bring modem rail transit to the nations heaviest populated transportation corridor and will also create meaningful employment for thousands of people. in order to assure the continuity of commuter rail services the bill contains appropriations for rail subsidies. these funds are necessary to reimburse commuter operators that will be adversely affected by the rail reorganization. the $25 million provided for commuter subsidies demonstrates that congress intends to carry out the provisions of the railroad revitalization and regulatory reform act of 1976 which prohibits cross subsidization of freight and passenger operations. finally. the bill contains $26.5 million to cover amtrak operating deficits and $10 million for one time start up costs associated with the theast corridor. i strongly support these provisions.
a satisfactory agreement has been worked out with the administration on the training of egyptian military personnel and the proposed sale of six c130 aircraft to egypt. the presidential determination of march 25  only dealt with the proposed sale of c130 military transport planes to egypt but also opened the door to a potentially wideranging training program for egyptian military officers. i was concerned that the loophole might be used to allow the training of egyptian personnel in u.s. military strategy and tactics and. even more important. in weapons systems which congress had  approved for sale to egypt. i requested written assurances on this matter. the senate foreign relations subcommittee on foreign assistance: has  received a letter from the state department containing assurances that the presidential determination will  be used as a blank check. in referring to the training of the 20 egyptian officers who will be sent to the united states in addition to the crews for the c130s. the state department letter said: the policy of this administration is that such training is expected to be quite limited and will be conducted at service schools where many other foreign officers including other arab officers are already enrolled. the letter addedthis type of training does  involve the divulgence of classified information concerning u.s. combat tactics and strategy  would it include training in the use of sophisticated military equipment. we would envisage giving such training to about 20 egyptian officers this year. this letter is a welcome and necessary supplement to secretary of state kissingers testimony to our subcommittee that additional sales to egypt are planned this year. therefore. i will  press my resolution to disapprove the sale of the six c130s. in making this decision. i also take into account the secretarys assurance that this sale will  be considered a precedent for congress. this assurance is important because of the testimony by under secretary of state joseph sisco to a house of representatives international relations subcommittee last week that egypt probably will seek additional military equipment sales next year. i still believe we should  supply lethal military weapons to egypt. it would be folly to add to the momentum of the arms race in the middle east. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. first. a letter from the state department. second. several recent newspaper articles which indicate the likelihood that egypt will make requests in the future for additional military aid and. third. some pertinent quotations by individuals selected from statements and press articles.
. i concur completely with the chairman as to the bill before us. we worked it out in complete harmony. and i support it fully. the bill before us. h.r. 14234. appropriates funds for fiscal year 1977 for the department of transportation and its related agencies. a total of 14 separate .entities. the bill contains about $5.5 billion in new budget authority and $9 billion in appropriations to liquidate contract authority. in all we have proposed more than 40 amendments to the house bill some of which i would like to highlight briefly. in the safety area we have restored $500.000 for gas pipeline safety. this program provides matching funds to states to help support their pipeline inspection programs. currently there are over 2.100 pipeline operators and 1.4 million miles of gas pipelineobviously the potential hazard is great. we have also increased by $30 million. the money available for state highway safety grants. through this grant program funds are made available to states in order to provide money for safety programs that might  otherwise be funded. these additional funds will be spent on such high payoff safety areas as alcohol enforcement. enforcing the 55 miles per hour speed limit and providing emergency medical services. last year we also increased the funding for safety grants and the results to date have been very promising. in the research and development area we have restored $4.7 million to the federal aviation administration for use in the effort to develop midair collision alert systems. more fuel efficient landing procedures and to automate the air traffic control system further. we have also restored $8 million for research and demonstration of promising urban mass transit programs. the downtown people mover demonstration program will provide an operational demonstration of a relatively simply automated transit system that runs on an exclusive rightofwaysimilar to systems  in use at some airports. we restored $2.8 million for use in railroad research and development. the railroad studies that are funded involve freight car management. track safety research. and the study of financial problems in the rail industry. in the highway area we restored $826.000 for research and development. most of this money will be used to support research aimed at reducing alcoholinvolved auto accidents. developing more effective means of providing emergency medical service and providing assistance to states in their enforcement and evaluation efforts. the senate version of the bill contains additional funds for rail assistance and subsidies. we have included $603.7 million for amtraksufficient funds to operate the entire 25.000mile system and purchase the equipment necessary foz improved service. the subcommittee expects amtrak to review carefully its rout( structure and service in order to provid( the most ecoical transportation pos. sible. our bill includes two provisions  considered by the house. these provisions would in effect make $470 million available for railroad mergers. consolidations. and rehabilitation of statedesignated light density freight lines. several other amendments to h.r. 14234 are also worthy of e. the bill contains an additional $10 million to be used for enforcement of the 200mile coastal fisheries limit. these funds will permit the coast guard to purchase an additional long range surveillance aircraft. six million dollars is recommended for the implementation of the energy conservation act of 1975. with these funds the national highway safety administration will develop techniques to monitor the compliance of auto manufacturers with the act. the senate bill also includes a substantial increase for the miity resource center. the center is designed to assist miity enterprises so as to insure them adequate opportunities to participate in the $1.9 billion revitalization of the theast rail corridor. the bill as reported out by the house was a good one and the amendments that we have made strengthen it further. i support this bill and urge the senate to act on it favorably.
i concur with the chairman. i think it is a good amendment. and i support it. the funds for airport planning are an integral part of the adap legislation. i believe we should do everything in our power to support advanced planning in all areas of transportation. consequently. i support this amendment proposed by the chairman of the authorizing committee.
. i would like to briefly comment on the decision made by the present administration concerning the britishfrench concorde. for some time. i have been concerned with the introduction of the concorde into commerical service in the united states. as my colleagues are well aware. the issue of the concorde has caused serious debate concerning its environmental impact. basically. this plane. as pointed out by gao in its september 15 report. is "counter to the thrust of the national se abatement effort." those of us who are from highly populated areas are very familiar with the already existing high se levels. to allow the concorde to add to this already overwhelming se burden would be inexcusable. it is well documented that the concorde is twice as sy as our siest commercial jets--707s and dcsand four times as sy as our newer jumbo jets. the federal aviation administration has deceptively disguised the se impact of the concorde by relating it to the expected levels presented in the environmental impact statement. granted. the concordes performance is as sy as expected in the environmental impact statement. however. these eis estimates represent the unacceptable se levels i have previously ed. to date. at dulles airport over 1.300 citizen complaints about the concorde have been reported. we should remember when discussing this issue that dulles is in a sense a "rural" air facility. trying to introduce this sy plane at jfk or other urban airports will be a disaster. i do  believe that it is appropriate for us to retreat from our commitment to reducing the se level in our urban areas. the slight reduction in travel time for the few affluent travelers can justify degrading the environment for thousands of residents around metropolitan airports.
i wish to emphasize that we are  increasing the amount for mass transit over amounts previously spent or over the budget because of the transfer of this authority from one method of financing to aher. therefore. it is wrong to compare the figures as the senator from indiana has done. i hope we are  going to cut down mass transit financing by an amount of this sort. i hope the amendment will be defeated.
 and many of the members who are far senior to me. including the ranking miity member. but because i think word has been spoken here this aftern about the people who are waiting for this relief. we are talking about $350.000.000 which sounds like a great deal of money. but let us realize that in greece alone there are 7.000.000 people. i was in greece. i personally saw the situation there. just as these distinguished gentlemen tell you that they personally saw the situation in germany. to which we are contributing money in this billlet us get that perfectly cleari want to tell you what i saw in greece. the roads are torn up and the railroads are torn up. there is rolling stock on the railroads. the farms are denuded of the equipment with which to cultivate crops. the situation generally is a shambles. if the greek people did  have this relief from us to look forward to. it has been said and said truly that their despair would drive them into the arms of communism.  tomorrow. but today. we must send them this help so that these people can fight against communism. remember that communism is an ideaa conviction. it is  anything that you can exercise with bayonets. it is only the faith of these people that the democracies have a heart and that the democracies will come to the aid of those countries that are starving and that the democracies will  let them starve. that keeps these people from turning to communism. the communists tell them that we will let them starve and that we are so selfish. so moneymad. so generally egotistical and set on maintaining our own standard of living. which incidentally is two or three times theirs. that we will let them starve. the greatest thing in the world for communism is this debate taking place on the floor of the house today.
may i point out to the gentleman that the cost of what we ship out is determined by its price. if the gentleman will go into any cafeteria he will find that the american people are  short of food. we are sending our surplus.
the provision that is  in the section in regard to the shipment of relief packages by united states voluntary profit agencies and individuals. is confined to ocean freight only and omits port charges and delivery charges from the post office to the terminal. are we to understand that present provision was designed in that way to limit the amount of the cost of shipment to be absorbed. and the reason that the care amendment was left out was to preserve the equality between care and the voluntary agencies and individuals by confining the cost to be absorbed to this one item of ocean. freight charges.
ship of the distinguished gentleman from ohio . let us  get. off base on our facts. the iro is in business. the big nations are all members. france joined a few months ago. the iro. is spending $115.000.000a year. and is actually running the dp camps in germany. austria. and italy. the head of the iro is william hallam tuck. a very distinguished american. yes. the iro is very much in business and is a very active organization. i am opposed to this amendment and for one reason. let us be realistic. we have all heard of motions to recede and concur. motions to strike out. motions. to strike out all after the enacting clause. and motions to recommit. this is a motion to inter. if the committee passes this motion. it inters this bill. because it defers. for years possibly. any united states resettlement program for dps until the time when the last inhabitant of a dp camp will have been resettled. i would like to call attention to the fact that when the gentleman from ohio eloquently advocated the resolution to have the united states join the iro on. this floor. he did  tell the house that the dp problem would be disposed of in 1 year. he said. according to my best recollection. the best one can say. is that it looks like it ought to be disposed of sometime around 3 yaars.
. i join my colleague from louisiana in the statement that i think the committee is being a little inflexible where it is carrying almost completely the main point which it says was the principal purpose of this legislation. to legalize the absorption of freight rates.  to ease the impact of the amendment to the robinsonpatman act in sections 2 and 3. let me make a practical point: the gentleman from pennsylvania . in arguing against the amendment. says that we jeopardize the use of the term "good faith." let us examine this matter and determine. if we can. what is good faith. good faith means that a seller who is seeking to meet competition will really believe honestly that it is competition that he is trying to meet. what "good faith" means is that the particular seller honestly believes when he quotes a different price than he is quoting generally that he is meeting a competitive price. that is all. what are we seeking to protect against. we who back the carroll amendment. and i think the bill must carry it. all we are seeking to protect against is a situation such as this: suppose you have a seller who has 50 suits to sell and who is trying to sell them in a city which has 20 clothing stores. then suppose you have aher seller who is trying to sell 10.000 suits to the 20 stores in the same town. but mind you. the seller of the 50 suits can supply their needs. he can only make an offering. then the 10.000unit seller meets that offer. he is acting in good faith. and. according to this bill. unless we amend it. it does  make any difference that he puts the 50suit seller out of business. as long as he meets that offering he is acting in good faith. what we are trying to protect against is that the greater ecoic power of the seller of 10.000 suits shall  be used to crush the competition of the small seller or of the buyers among themselves. if you want to do that you have got to write the restriction into this bill which has been proposed by the gentleman from colorado. it is eminently fair because it takes the language of the robinsonpatman act and the very language that the committee itself has adopted in part (a) of section 2 of the bill. the committee can quarrel with that. it is practically as broad as it is long. if it makes good sense in subsection (a) where it relates to absorption of freight. then it certainly makes equally good sense in subsection (b) of section 2 of the bill. and in section 3 where it relates to small merchants. i say that the committee really must adopt this amendment if it wants to make this legislation mean what it should mean. adopt this carroll amendment both to this section and to the next section to which it will be offered.
ial election of 1948. the rules committee was denied its old powers on friday. and the road was kept open for fepc only because 64 republicans voted "" the majority on that vote was 53. hence without republican votes the rules would have been changed and the chance for fepc probably ended for this congress. it should be clear by  what kind of mandate there is on civil rights. it is a mandate from the people which runs to every member and  to any party. it is a question of individual record and  party responsibility. the only sure hope for passage of fepc is a bipartisan coalition of liberal democrats and progressive republicans who will by discharge petition bring fepc to the floor. if it is  otherwise brought before us by the next discharge day.
 the amount of railroad construction envisaged under this legislation is very slight and is only to develop the truncated railroad systems so as to make it more useful for the south korean ecoy. for the gentlemans information. in the fiscal year 1950 there will be $2.432.000 in rail construction in the whole program of $120.000.000. eight hundred and two thousand dollars for railroad construction purposes was used of the initial $16.000.000. of the second sum of $60.000.000 as proposed in this bill $1.630.000 will be used for railroad construction. seventysix thousand dollars has been used up to the present for railroad electrification but e will be used for this out of the authorization we are here asked to vote on.
. this amendment is a very simple one. it extends to the other recipient countriesthis bill extending to other countries in the near east. africa. and the far eastefforts to stimulate travel which we have been pursuing with great success with respect to europe and which are covered by section 117 (a) of the ecoic cooperation act  in effect. this amendment would extend the same kind of cooperation to the other countries which will be dealt with under this act. i appreciate the lateness of the hour and tlat the committee on foreign affairs will have aher opportunity to review this bill come january next. nevertheless i hope that even  we can correct this travel question.
what i had in mind is more as to what we can do.  that the president has indicated his intention of giving this the highest priority. to bring about agreement. between  and january. among those republicans and those democrats who are in favor of a measure. and to try to bring in an agreedon bill. i was very much on the road toward that goal with the senator from new mexico .  that the senator from michigan has taken over the effort. i was wondering what the senator thought about devoting this time. instead of hearings being held around the countryalthough that would  be inconsistent with the effort that i have in mindto an effort to bring about an agreedupon bill.
. there are two questions before us. one. shall we ship any jet planes to yugoslavia even if we intend to ship any. and. second. shall we terminate the whole yugoslav program. which is the amendment of my colleague the gentlewoman from new york . on the first question. if we are going to start to be armchair generals in this house we are going to make ourselves look very foolish. we can go from deciding about jet planes to armor. to guided missiles. to every type of aircraft and every type of vehicle and to every type of units until we would be lost in a morass of our own creation. obviously the only proposition which should be discussed is whether or  we should continue with the yugoslav aid program at all. on that issue i think that the evidence is distinctly that we should. first and foremost. we should continue because we have adopted a calculated policy in which we made a very large investment in world prestige and money. and we are given reason whateverthat was  the reason at the time we adopted the policyfor abandoning it . i can think of hing which would discourage other soviet satellites more than cutting off in midstream aid to the one satellite. yugoslavia. which has defected from the communist bloc. on the contrary. i think it has been demonstrated to us that the defection is real. is sticking. and will be made to stick. that it is a real and effective precedent. let me make aher very practical point. the exports from yugoslavia to the united states of a highly strategic metal. lead. have increased sevenfold since titos defection a few years ago. i think reasonable explanation has been given whatever for abandoning the major policy which we undertook in a calculated and deliberate way. because we had to fight fire with fire. there is justification for us  to take advantage of the 32 divisions in being which yugoslavia hasright  about the toughest fighting force in europe outside of the soviet blocwhen there is every. reason to count these divisions on our side or. at the very least. of being neutralized in terms of  being a threat to the free world and ready to defend their own territory.
. as we prepare for great decisions. on the presidency we recognize that there must be indecision in our national policies until the day the next administration takes over. at such a time the active and continued interest of our people in the government. and  alone in the political campaign. gives stability to the ship of state. the people are entitled to the maximum amount of information on which they can base their judgment in these days. and it is the responsibility of every public official. insofar as he is possibly able to accomplish it. to see that every citizen in his area is fully informed. this is a gratifying partnership in public affairs and is the purpose of this final report.
. i am today introducing a revised resolution calling upon the committee on interstate and foreign commerce to investigate the whole question of safety in motor vehicle operation. barriers to interstate motor vehicle operation. automobile accident rates and fatalities. materially increased automobile insurance rates. and the measures which the federal government can take in this situation. almost unwittingly the american automobile has become the principal means of interstate transportation and a major problem in interstate commerce. the regulation of which is exclusively the federal governments province under. the constitution. yet except for interstate commerce commission regulation of heavy trucking. the federal government is taking practically part in dealing with the new situation presented by interstate automobile traffic. the public is feeling the impact severely. thirtyeight thousand deaths from motor vehicle accidents and 1.330.000 injuries estimated for 1952 are a new higha far greater casualty rate than is facing us in the actual korean war. automobile liability and property damage insurance rates increased 20 percent in 1952. an added insurance bill of $300.000.g00 for the 42.500.000 passenger car owners. nearly twothirds of all households in the united states. the federal government already has a large interest in the situation through the annual appropriation of $500.000.000 for federal aid to road construction. such aid can certainly and fairly be coupled with federal interest in the safety of operation over such roads. including maximum safety factors in their design and construction. motor vehicle laws and regulations are properly a matter of state law. but where automobile traffic from one state injures the citizens of aher state because of mechanical defects in motor vehicles which could be correctd by state inspection laws or because the operator of the outofstate motor vehicle is  covered by liability insurance and is  responsible financially. the federal government should certainly look into the situation. i am  advocating compulsory automobile insurance or any other specific law. but i am advocating an investigation which will disclose the action which the federal government may take to standardize and make more unified the efforts of the individual states for safety in connection with motor vehicle traffic. nearly onethird of the states  demand regular inspection of motor vehicles as a highway safety measure and one statemassachusetts--has a compulsory automobile insurance law. gover dewey is recommending both laws to the new york state legislature this year. fortyfive states have safety responsibility laws. these call for compulsory liability insurance to be carried by any owner after an accident involving personal injuries. thirtyfive of the 45 states include the security provisionrequiring participants in accidents to deposit security or otherwise indicate their ability to pay judgments arizing out of such accidents which might be later entered against themin their statutes. three states require only future pro of of financial responsibility following accidents. the uniform laws generally in force were developed by the american automobile association and the national committee on uniform traffic laws and ordinances. a previous bill introduced last year had an encouraging response from the members of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce and the public generally. the hearst newspaper. parade magazine. the new york herald tribune. the new york times. and many others have featured campaigns. serials. editorials. and articles on the subject. this is a field in which the federal government can render a real service to the people and keep pace with modern developments in transportation. my bill provides that the house interstate and foreign commerce committee make a study and investigation of: first. state and local laws and regulations respecting motor vehicle inspection. safety responsibility. and compulsory liability insurance. second. effect of such laws on automobile accident rates and liability insurance rates. third. measures which may be practicably undertaken in cooperation with the states to reduce such accident rates. fourth. existing and any desirable regulation of the operation of motor vehices in or affecting interstate and foreign commerce and any barriers to such operation. and fifth. the effect of highway improvements on safety in the operation of motor vehicles. a report is to be made  later than january 1. 1954. and i am introducing a separate bill to provide an appropriation of $50.000 for the purposes of the resolution.
 from the travel industry. it is estimated that for 1953 some 800.000 americans will have spent $1.200.000 for travel outside this country. this is more dollars than earned by any other single united states import except coffee. reliable estimates on the expansion possibilities in international travel based on the disposable income available to the american people. available leisure time. and on standards for expected international travel established as far back as 1929 show that there is a potential of 1.300.000 united states overseas travelers per year and that expenditures of this number of travelers would be at least $1.300.000.000 more than the 1953 expenditure. or at least $2.500.000.000 a year. it is estimated. for example. that the current travel volume of 332.000 to europe and the mediterranean in 1952 can be increased to 800.000. the impediments to travel are official restrictions on visas. customs. and similar regulations for the traveler and for the carrier such as port taxes. excessive documentary requirements. and landing rights. and other operating restrictions. inadequacy of hotel accommodations. inadequacy of development of recreation and sightseeing areas and the costs of transportation. the most remarkable advances have been made in bringing down the costs of transportation. particularly by aircoach fares and reduced offseason travel rates to europe on ships and planes. this has made for the most extraordinary stimulus to international travel in the postwar era. the greatest impediments have been the absence of adequate hotel accommodations and development of recreation and sightseeing areas which make lower tour costs less attainable. the vast importance of the stimulation of international travel to domestic travel must also be recognized. the expenditures by united states citizens for domestic travel in 1952. exclusive of business travel. aggregated $16.645.796.700 as estimated by the national association of travel organizations. this represents a very appreciable element in domestic business which will be effectively stimulated and further developed by the encouragement and development of international travel.
. extensive hearings were held before the subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy of the committee on foreign affairs on a bill in principle similar to this section. these hearings were entitled "to promote the foreign policy of the united states by fostering international travel and exchange of persons." these hearings extending over a period of about 2 months produced emous support for the need of our government to aid in facilitating and increasing international travel both from and into the united states. it was made clear that this can be the greatest single source of trade  aid. in 1953 united states tourists spent over a billion dollars for international * travel in dollar expenditure in foreign countries and. based upon united states national income. there is a foreign travel expenditure potential of $2 billion or more. it is vital to k that foreign travelers spent an estimated $600 million in the united states. too. in the same period. this proposal has wellnigh universal support from all forms of transportation. train. bus. airplane and ship. from chambers of commerce. trade unions and many other organizations. as well as from the government departments. it was made very clear that there would be competition of any kind with private business. on the contrary the opportunities for the travel industry and private business could be greatly increased. also it was emphasized that the important thing was that government prestige and the governments existing facilities could help so much and that promotional or other expenditures were contemplated. it is symptomatic of the great support this proposal has received that as recently as june 16. the board of directors of the national association of manufacturers adopted a resolution urging that to realize the potential inherent in foreign travel as an element of trade  aid there must be a coordination of effort on the part of shipping and airlines. those that provide accommodations abroad. and all governments. including the united states. in eliminating burdensome frontier formalities. and in travel promotionincluding better publicizing of tariff exemptions applicable to travelers at wholesale pricesparticularly during the offseason months. the vital influence of foreign travel in terms of education and better relations between the peoples of the free world is. of course. so very well kn as to require only statement rather than emphasis.
i join the gentleman in the sentiments he has expressed in congratulating the chairman on getting this bill before us and i shall support it. i am very glad that the house is acting on this long needed and very just legislation in aid of railroad retirement. if our railroad retirement system is to serve its vital purpose it must conform to modern conditions and costs of living.
 the construction is in its early stages. in fact. the port of elath has been kept in a rather primitive state. because of the fact that it has been bottled up for so long. this whole area urgently needs this kind of constructive approach in order to be responsive to the kind of development that the senator from illis is speaking about.
. on behalf of myself. and my colleague. the senior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the federalaid highway act to permit the federal government to pay costs of relocation to building tenants forced to relocate because of the acquisition of property for highway purposes. the relocation of building tenants. including small businesses. in densely populated areas is one of the major obstacles to rapid progress in the federalhighway program.  only should the program be expedited. but fairness requires that the government agency appropriating the property reimburse tenants fairly for the loss they suffer. through fault of their own. by the governments road improvement program. often families and small retail stores and other small businesses lack the financial resources to pay the moving and other expenses which the acquisition of the new roads forces upon them. certainly. it is only just that they be helped with this expense. in new york city. it is estimated that relocation costs average $500 a family. throughout new york state. there are probably about 9.100 families which will have to be relocated. our bill. if enacted. would amend the definition of construction in the federal highway act of 1956 to include specifically the cost of relocation of building tenants. the demolition of structures. removal of usable buildings to new sites. and acquisition of new sites for relocation. we are endeavoring to assure that in the construction of capital projects. especially in densely populated areas. the government will bear some of the actual and necessary costs which federal construction forces upon families and small businesses through fault of their own. it is this expense which the bill seeks to assist in covering. in addition. the latest procedures under the slumclearance projects. carried out with the aid of title i of the national housing act. allow for payment of relocation expense up to $2.000 each for small businesses. this is certainly a modest limitation considering the expense imposed. we believe that it should also be carried over into the federalhighway program. it is our aim to ease in every way the burdens of the moderate and low income families which are most frequently displaced. and of the small retail store and small business generally which are displaced as a result of major public improvements in which the united states participates. these include highway construction as well as housing. we should do everything we can toward this objective of humanitarianism and justice.
. by way of explanation of these amendments. one amendment deals with the entire question of international travel. there are tremendous possibilities in intenational travel for helping foreign nations. in the same terms in which we helped them under mutual assistance. and also tremnndous possibilities for introducing our country to many travelers who do  come here . as well as some possible financial benefit to our own country as well. especially in states which attract tourists during the tourist season. i shall have a great deal more to say on this subject in connection with the amendment. and also in connection with independent proposed legislation which i intend to introduce. i merely call attention to the fact that i sponsored a similar move in the other body when i was a member there. which resulted in the inclusion of section 416. relating to the encouragement of international travel. in the mutual security act. it is that section which i propose to amend. my amendment proposes a broad scale study and report dealing with the question of international travel. with a view toward a more affirmative action by our government on that subject. in connection with the international travel amendment. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recor an editorial entitled "twoway ocean." published in the washington post and times herald of june 10. 1957.
 desighated the department of commerce to do all it could to promote and develop travel by citizens of the united states to countries receiving assistance under the act. and travel by citizens of such countries to the united states. such an office was financed with a modest appropriation. which i think at that time amounted to about $35.000 a year. i think the office has been continued at that rate. the purpose of my amendment is simply to apprise congress again of the progress that has been made. of the barriers still existing. and of what congress can do about those barriers. international travel is the cheapest kind of foreign aid. one and onehalf million americans spend $1.500.000.000 abroad. lest we underestimate what that means to a particular country. this is the greatest single export of great britain. great britain received $134 million from this invisible export. which involves investment in the occupancy of rooms. the consumption of some food. and the use of the great and beautiful country of the british by many americans in the year 1956. that was about $58 million more than its other largest export. which was machinery. it might interest my colleagues to k that the third largest export was scotch. which came to $71 million a year. the purpose of my amendment. which will cost money. because the agency already exists and is functioning. and is already financed. is to bring us up to date on this critical problem. there are a number of areas to which our attention should be directed.
 to designate the week of ember 9. 1957. as world travel week. this measure is being sponsored in the other body by representatives farbstein. of new york. frelinghuysen. of new jersey. and mora of connecticut. it has the endorsement of a substantial segment of the american travel industry. last year the some 1.243.000 americans who traveled abroad. outside of canada and mexico. spent about $1.275.000.000. exclusive of travel fares. these expenditures by americans abroad represent one of the most important sources of dollar earnings for europe. this is the best and most satisfactory form of trade.  aid. for all parties concerned. in great britain. for example. tourism was the biggest dollar earner in 1956. bringing in more than $134.000.000. in 1956. there were 62.232.257 admissions to the united states: 360.000 from areas of the world other than canada and mexico. and 61.791.935 from canada and mexico on a frequently recurring basis. there were 150.000 from europe and the mediterranean area. 175.000 from latin america and the caribbeatside mexicoand about 35.000 from asia and africa. these visitors spent some $705.000.000 here. observance of a world travel week. as envisoned by the resolution. would be a logical extension of the interest in international travel traditionally manifested by the congress.
. i thank the senator from texas for his indulgence. i shall  detain him or the senate very much longer. but i wish to say this: neither i . i respectfully submit. any other senator. can compete with the senator from georgia in the charm and distinction with which he presents his argument. but it is only fair. at a solemn moment like this. to state some of the facts. the facts. as we see them. justify the conclusion stated. surely the supreme court. the other courts. and other agencies are constantly catching up with what goes in county after county. in areas that need the application of this bill. but that is  the way to operate a railroad in the united states. that is  the way to do justice. so we are seeking aher remedy. which we feel will have a material effect upon the whole situation and make it unnecessary for us to be constantly chasing our tails and catching up with particular case after particular case. always behind the facts. several senators addressed the chair.
. i submit a concurrent resolution and introduce a bill for appropriate reference. the concurrent resolution (s. con. res. 44) to express the sense of congress relative to interchange on a reciprocal basis of persons with russia and other eastern european countries under the united states information and educational exchange act. submitted by mr. javits. was received and referred to the committee on foreign relations. as follows: resolved by the senate (the house of representatives concurring). that it is the sense of the congress that the secretary of state. in administering the provisions of section 201 of the united states information and educational exchange act of 1948. as amended (62 stat. 7. 22 u. s. c. 1446) should also interchange on a reciprocal basis persons described therein in substantial number with the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries under the following conditions: (a) the united states will defray the living expenses  to exceed an amount found by the secretary of state to be reasonable and proper for a period  to exceed 6 months with respect to any individual. a national of the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries (1) who is transported to the united states at the expense or under the auspices of the country of which such person is a national for the purpose of visiting the united states. and (2) who is a student. trainee. teacher. or professor or a leader in a field of specialized kledge and skill of the country of which such person is a national. and (b) the union of soviet socialist republics or other european communist country. as the case may be. will defray for equal periods of time the living expenses of a reciprocal number of nationals of the united states (1) who are transported to the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. at the expense or under the auspices of the united states for the purpose of visiting the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. and (2) who are students. trainees. teachers. or professors or leaders in a field of specialized kledge and skill in the united states. sec. 2. the secretary of state is requested to permit nationals of the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. who enter the united states in pursuance of this concurrent resolution the same degree of freedom to travel and observe within the united states as that permitted by the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. to nationals of the united states who enter the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. to travel and observe within the union of soviet socialist republics or other eastern european countries. as the case may be. in pursuance of this resolution. and the secretary of state is requested on the basis of reciprocity to waive the requirement of subsection (b). section 221 and section 262 of the immigration and nationality act (66 stat. 191. 8 u. s. c. 2101) relating to fingerprinting as authorized by the fourth sentence of section 201 (a) of the united states information and educational exchange act of 1948. as~amended. the bill to amend section 201 (a) of the united states information and educational exchange act of 1948 so as to permit the waiver of fingerprinting requirements with respect to persons admitted into the united states pursuant to such act. introduced by mr. javits. was received. read twice by its title. and referred to the committee on foreign relations.
as well as myself. i should like to comment on the subject matter of senate resolution 258. deeply as we prize our federal system of government. it admittedly gives rise to difficult problems. this is particularly true when the conduct of international relations. for which. of course. the executive branch is responsible under the constitution. impinges on matters which in this country are handled by the states and municipalities or other local governmental agencies. an important case in point occurs in the field of airport ecoics. in the united states and its possessions. most airports are. with the exception of the washington national airport. owned. operated. and controlled.  by the federal government. but by local governments or agencies established by them.it is these local agencies that have the. responsibility. and the burden. of developing and financing our system of airports. largely out of their own resources civ- 140 and by use of their own credit. some $4 billion have been invested in airport facilities and operation. their aim is. of course. to make the airport systems selfsupporting. and they have been making steady progress toward that goal. at the same time they face the task of providing. wilt only modest federal assistance. greatly expanded and improved facilities to meet the needs of the jet age. in the circumstances. the financial. stability of our american airports and the ability of their managements to maintain their credit standing with the investing public is of critical importance. understandably. the airport operators are deeply concerned by any action which might impair the confidence of the public. thereby threatening continued sound operation. specifically. they are alarmed by recent activities of the international civil aviation organization in the field of airport ecoics.  in 1956 the icao held a conference on airport charges which issued a final report recommending specific principles to be followed in setting charges for the use of airports and recommending particular types of charges. these recommendations have since been transmitted. to the contracting states by icao.  there is a difference of opinion as to the authority of icao to prepare such recommendations. in. the view of the airport operators council such recommendations. even though mandatory on the contracting states. are beyond the power of icao as established by the convention on international civil aviation. while our government takes a different view as to the legal power of icao to concern itself with this field. it has consistently taken the position that any determinations concerning the establishment of airport charges should be left to the individual contracting states of icao. it has opposed any formal action by icao designed to establish uniform levels or methods of imposing airport charges on a worldwide basis on decisions as to whether and when individual states should impose such charges. i . it is essential that the united states maintain this position. in other countries. international airports are owned or supported by national funds. but this is  so in this country. our airports. with the exception ed earlier. are owned and operated by units of local government. and they have been financed in large part by the sale to the public of bonds issued by and payable from airport revenues. these bonds have been purchased in confidence that our states. cities. or local governmental agencies will be able to operate their airports on a selfsupporting basis. they can do so unless they continue to have freedom to establih fair and reasonable charges in order to produce the revenue required to support successful operation and thereby maintain their credit. the potentially adverse effect of. international recommendations as to the ecoic policies of airports in the united states is obvious. and the airport operators are rightfully concerned. legal questions aside. the practical effect of any disturbance of the credit structure of our american airports must be of direct concern to all taxpayers. it can help but impede the efforts of our cities and states to maintain our american airports with the revenues earned through selfsupporting charges. and thereby avoid burdening the general taxpayer. indeed. the importance of assuring that airport authorities will have the power to determine charges and fees has long been recognized in statutes authorizing airport authority bonds. it is a common practice for cities and states to include in such statutes a commitment that they "will  diminish or impair the power of the authority to establish. levy. and collect tolls. rents. landing fees. charges. or other fees in connection with such air terminals or other facilities. so long as such bonds or other obligations remain outstanding." the protection of our american system of airport ownership and operationis of primary importance. a few days ago a resolution dealing with this problem was introduced for referral to the senate interstate and foreign commerce committee. we urge that the committee hold early hearings on it. for the problem is pressing and deserves im-. mediate attention.
i also. am a member of the committee on the district of columbia. and because of travel difficulties was unable to arrive in washington in time to attend the meeting. i should like to associate myself with the statements of the distinguished chairman of our committee. i should like to say that what happened yesterday bears out the urgent need for the number one legislative recommendation made by the commissioners which is enactment of homerule legislation. i am delighted that our chairman is going to give the recommendationsand i have doubt that one in particularvery urgent attention. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record editorials from the february 24 washington evening star and the february 25 washington post and times herald commenting on the state of the nations capital which bespeak the manifold obligations of the congress toward its washington wards.
. i present for printing in the record certain petitions and memorials. one coming from the legislature of the state of new york memorializing congress to act with respect to the crisis in the railroad industry. the others are sundry matters from political subdivisions of the state of new york.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a concurrent resolution adopted by the legislature of the state of new york favoring the enactment of legislation to enable the railroad industry to compete with other forms of transportation which are aided by public funds.
. i present for appropriate reference three resolutions adopted by organizations in the state of new york. relating to the plight of the railroad industry. i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions may be printed in the record.
 by hon. clarence randall. which is  universally ackledged to be a handbook or guidebook for the great effort which is  taking place in our government to increase and improve international travel. the report brings the information up to date and gives authoritative recommendations as to what needs to be done. a series of bills is in preparation for the purpose of implementing the travel report. altogether. it is a remarkably satisfactory report for all concerned. it was prepared in accordance with an amendment to the mutual security act. exactly the same kind of amendment i am offering today. last year the committee was kind egh to accept an amendment similar to this one and take it to conference. my amendment today calls for the same treatment of united states overseas private enterprise and its coordination with united states foreign policy. i strongly feel that the example which has been set by this very successful report within the congressional framework in respect to international travel should be availed of in this instance. as to the substantive reasons. khrushchev has said. in so many words. that he has declared war upon us in foreignecoic policy. it is universally ackledged by every authority. including the secretary of state. that if we try to fight the struggle in the ecoic field strictly with what we spend in government. we shall be fighting with our right hand tied behind our back. because in our country the private sector of the ecoy produces the most. spends the most money. and operates on the largest scale in almost every military way.
i beg the senators pardon. but i disagree. if we pass the bill as it is written. this is the criterion. i believe the bill must be amended. because i think we can tie this matter down so tight. the provision reads: such operation or service will  result in a net loss therefrom t the carrier or carriers and will  otherwise unduly burden interstate or foreign commerce. an essential criterion is net loss. if we are to pass the bill and have it become a statute. we should make that provision a criterion and  the criterion. if we do that we will be making great progress in giving icc a power it does   have. i am for doing that. withstanding the views of my own publicservice commission. but i am concerned about absolutely tying the power to act down to only net loss. in answer to a previous point. about paying for this kind of service. i suggest that a railroad is a public utility. there is always involved a question of ecoic philosophy as to whether a public utility has to operate at a profit overall or at a profit for each particular segment of its operations. there is a question whether that is the very reason the railroad is a public utilitybecause some of the things it does and may have to do at a loss it does to give public service. i say to my colleague that in view of the very narrow restriction contained in the language. which will put every railroad in a position to discontinue any passenger services it wishes. without any recourse. i would very much favor making this provision a criterion. but  the sole or essential criterion. as i feel the language in the bill would make it.
. is that as the bill is written the public convenience and necessity consideration does  control even as a part of the determination of the commission. there is question about the plight of the railroads. i am entirely sympathetic with the work which has been done by the committee. and the committee has served remarkably well in terms of the welfare of the country in trying to produce some solutions to the situation which confronts the railroads. there is question also about the fact that one of the problems of the railroads is the loss operation of commuter services. of course i come from a part of the country. new york state. where we have a number of large cities. especially new york city. where commuters are a very important segment of our population. and the railroad service they get is a paramount question of public interest. i might say. so that my colleagues will understand the significance of this matter. that my amendment applies  only to new york city and other great cities of my state. but it applies also to any other great city in the country. whether it be atlanta or philadelphia or detroit or san francisco. or any other large city. to those cities this is a very important matter. i say it is vital for this reason. i k very well that the pending bill will be acted on by the senate and will then have to go to the other house. then it will have to go to conference. and the differences will have to be settled in conference. however. unless we flag the situation at this stage. it may never get done. or done with the impact that is required under the circumstances. my objection to the provision as written by the committee is that it moves too far too fast. i invite the attention of the senate to the words themselves in section 4 of the bill. a carrier is permitted to terminate or discontinue a service. and the interstate commerce commission is given authority to require the railroad to restore service or to continue it. and there is a provision for the temporary stay of the railroads determination to discontinue a service. the question then becomes what criterion the commission shall use in respect to an order to require the continuance of service. the criterion is contained at page 6 of the bill. at lines 15 to 18. i read them: that such operation or service will  result in a net loss therefrom to the carrier or carriers and will  otherwise unduly burden interstate or foreign commerce. i respectfully submit to my colleagues in the senate that the only criterion which is therein set forth is net loss. because the question of the burden on interstate and foreign commerce has hing to do with a particular operation. if it is a net loss. it does  matter whether or  it is construed as a burden on either interstate or foreign commerce. therefore. if the commission could find that public convenience and necessity required etheless. despite the fact of the net loss. operation of the particular commuter section which is sought to be discontinued. it is my view. as the bill is written. that it would have legal power to require it. the discontinuance would be left to the entire discretion of the individual carrier. it seems to me this is an objective which it is  wise. in the public interest. to legislate into law quite so flatly and absolutely.  is it an objective which ought to be sought by the pending bill. because it is inconsistent with the general context of other authority which we have given to the interstate commerce commission with reference to abandonment. why do i say that the bill tries to move too far too fast. it is because the question of what constitutes net loss will have to be determined by some one somewhere as a matter of law. it is my view. as the bill is  written. that question of law will be decided in terms of a net loss on the particular section of a railroad which is sought to be discontinued. rather than the net loss on the total operations of the carrier of which that section of the road is a part. should that happen. i am advised by the public service commission of the state of new york. the carriers could discontinue all passenger service in the whole east. because almost all passenger service in the east operates at a loss. it is a fact that we do  expect anyone to operate at a loss. however. the question i am raising is one  with respect to a situation where there is an overall lozs. but where there is a loss upon a particular section of a railroad. as the bill is written. if a loss is shown on a particular section of a railroad. that railroad can discontinue that section of the railroad. and the interstate commerce commission can stop it. i say that is writing a law far more strictly than we have a right to do. or have any business doing. in fairness to millions of people. the interstate commerce commission does  have this power . it is  in the hands of state commissions. and the state commissions have very different standards and criteria which they employ. for example. let me cite what applies in my state of new york. i quote from article 3 of the public service law. section 51 (b). which sets up this criterion: the commission shall have power * * * to determine whether the existing service provided by any such train is reasonably required to provide adequate transportation service. upon the institution of such an investigation. the commission is authorized by order to require the railroad corporation to continue existing service. pending the holding of public hearings and decision thereonand so forth. the bill endeavors to legislate a criterion which is very much restricted and which. if adopted. especially in view of the factual situation with respect to passenger service generally. would be a very dangerous exercise of our power. we would be absolutely binding the interstate commerce commission. i call attention to the fact that the interstate commerce commission. which today has the right to deal with abandonment of all or any part of a line of a railroad. according to title 49 of the united states code. section 1. paragraph 18. has this criterion. that "the present or future public convenience and necessity permit of such abandonment." let me repeat that. because i think it is very important in this debate. "the present or future public convenience and necessity permit of such abandonment." that is a very different criterion from the sole criterion of net loss. the fact is that in most of these cases the interstate commerce commission does  have the power today to allow discontinuance. it does have the power to increase rates. where intrastate rates represent an unjust discrimination or burden on interstate commerce. the committee report itself says. at pages 10 and 11. that the mere increase of rates is  egh. first. because rates may go out of sight. and if they are passed on. patronage will so diminish that the operation will become a viable ecoic operation. second. merely permitting a rate increase is  practical. that some authority. other than the authority in the state. has to have the right to allow a section of a railroad to be discontinued. i think we who come from the cities and are concerned with the probable discontinuances of sections of road are going a long way in recognition of the national urgency of the city. by agreeing to give to the interstate commerce -commission the power to bring about discontinuance. a power which it does  have . i am perfectly willing to go that distance. although i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a telegram from the public service commission of my state opposing that very thing.
however. if we are going to go some distance toward helping in the national dilemma with respect to the railroads. we should  go to such an extent as to destroy ourselves in the big cities. i respectfully submit that by making the sole criterion "net loss" for the discontinuance of commuter roads. less are we engaging in a destructive action in terms of the big cities. that is something which we have right to do. it is argued that one should be required to carry on an operation at a loss. i join in that view. but i point out that in the case of a public utility it is almost hornbook law that a public utility is the concern of everyone. and that the only time a public utility can be allowed to discontinue a branch of service upon which it is suffering a loss is if the operation seriously prejudices the whole financial picture of the utility. if we were to allow every public utility to discontinue service because it suffered a loss. we could  operate on a public utility basis. because many aspects of service would necessarily be discontinued. yet if we allow the bill to stand as it is. that is exactly what we will be doing. i have very grave doubt that that is the fundamental intention of the senate. what we shall be doing. if we act in this drastic way. is to move too far. too fast. we are trying to help the railroads solve their commuter problems. but we shall be trying to help them. if we pass the bill as it is. by setting a standard which puts the public absolutely at the mercy of any railroad which can show a loss on any particular section of its line. that. i respectfully submit. is  and should  be our purpose. certainly it is  in the national interest. i do  believe that the adoption of the amendment will in any way seriously prejudice the bill. the amendment gives jurisdiction to the interstate commerce commission. jurisdiction which it lacks under present law. it provides the commission with a more flexible criterion than is provided in the bill. but a criterion. nevertheless. which gives the commission power to save any road from serious. drastic financial injury because of the operation of an unprofitable commuter service. i think the amendment gives the commission the kind of authority which it ought to have. at the same time. it does  vest the commission with lifeanddeath authority over commuter service based on a narrow criterion which is  based on the context of general public utility law. and is  found in other phases of interstate commerce commission authority or regulation  justified by the public interest. i refer to page 22 of the committee report. in which there is a complaint. as follows: without reciting individual cases the subcommittee is satisfied that state regulatory bodies all too often have been excessively conservative and unduly repressive in requiring the maintenance of unecoic and unnecessary services and facilities. * * * in many such cases. state regulatory commissions have shown a definite lack of appreciation for the serious impact on a railroads financial condition resulting from prolonged lossproducing operations. i have read those words because i think they are all important in this discussion--"on a railroads financial condition." those are the words. however. in the bill as presented to us. "on a railroads financial condition" is the basis which i am willing to accept. but on a net loss basis for a particular operation sought to be discontinued is  a basis which i or the people or the senate ought to accept. this is  a light matter. we are dealing with one of the fundamental and very basic problems involved in the railroading business. i am more than happy that we are  acting in the matter. i think the time has long since passed when we could do anything to meet the situation fairly and squarely. but i respectfully submit to my colleagues that meeting it fairly and squarely does  mean that we should go to such extremes under cover of doing something which is the right thing to do at this particular time as to give ourselves great cause for grief if we pass the bill. although. i repeat. we may be able to do something about this particular provision in conference. when the bill goes to the other body. still it is our bound and duty. when we see something wrong with a piece of proposed legislation. to put it in proper shape. i submit to the senator from florida . to whom i have appealed in the hope that he might be able to take this amendment to conference. that i think it truly perfects section 4. and may very well. if the motion to strike out the whole of section 4 is to be pressed. as i understand it is. result in saving this particular section which is of tremendous advantage to the railroad industry in terms of its really fundamental problems. i had a colloquy with the senator from ohio . who is a distinguished lawyer. about this matter a while ago. i received the distinct impression from the colloquy that the interstate commerce commission will  exercise authority because we are going into a very deep study of the whole transportation system. which was voted by the rules committee this morning. it is my understanding that he feels that the commission is going to wait on that study before they act. but i do  see how we. as lawyers. can be satisfied with that. under the criterion which is set forth in the bill. if i were a lawyer representing a railroad. i would act as follows: i would give ice of discontinuance and go before the interstate commerce commission. i would accept evei an adverse decision. if the commission wanted to make it. i would then go to the court to have the decision reversed. i am confident that i could reverse the commission upon this language. on the ground that the congressional purpose as specified in the express words of the law. were that any railroad showing a net loss for the operation of a particular section of the road should have the right to discontinue that section. court will overturn a congressional purpose so clearly expressed. unless we express what is really our purpose accurately. and that is the aim of my amendment. in summary. therefore. as the matter  stands. the bill is completely vulnerable to arbitrary construction. it is completely vulnerable to arbitrary use by the railroads. i do  believe that is in the public interest. if the bill is amended in the way i have suggested in the amendment i have submitted. it will result in giving to the interstate commerce commission a balanced authority to deal with the situation. both in respect to losses and in respect to the public in the way of convenience and necessity. my amendment is consistent with all the other regulatory powers given the interstate commerce commission in respect to the abandonment of sections of railroads. for these reasons. i hope my amendment will be adopted.
i believe i understood the senators purpose. my pointif i may explain it. and certainly i believe it is important to the senateis that if the amendments were  added to the billof course. i have doubt that they will be added to ita railroad would have the right to discontinue a particular train. although it was intrastate. and the interstate commerce commission would have .the right to stop it only if the interstate commerce commission could show that the operation of the train represented net loss. and the purpose of my previous amendment is to try to broaden the criterion for that consideration. i am trying to spell this out. because i believe it important in terms of the effect on the bill. therefore. i so understand the effect of the removal from the bill itself of the jurisdiction in respect to intrastate trains. but if a train operates from one state into aher state. withstanding that it is a commuter service preponderantly in only one state. it will nevertheless come under the provisions of this particular section of the bill. even after adoption of the amendments of the senator from georgia. is that correct.
. of april 17. 1958. pursuant to section 7 of the mutual security act of 1957. an amendment which i sponsored. existing laws covering customs controls. issuance of passports and visas. and personal transportation taxes would be amended in acordance with the recommendations made in the report. these bills cover the entire range of legislative recommendations contained in the randall report. for which measures have  already been introduced in the senate. there are pending in both the house and senate previouslyintroduced bills dealing with other of the randall proposals. chief among these proposals is the measure submitted by me earlier this year. senate concurrent resolution 59. which looks to the designation of 1960 as visit u. s. a. year. an effort which has received the endorsement of the travel industry and official state and community travel bureaus. facilitating visits by foreign nationals to this country and by united states residents abroad is a matter of immediate congressional concern. stimulation of our domestic ecoy. expansion of foreign trade. and greater mutual understanding are all direct benefits to be reaped from increased international travel. here is one of the most pleasant and effective means to give foreign aid and to carry on the persontoperson program. the average rate at which overall travel and the tourist business has been growing in the last decade shows signs of leveling off this year. enactment by congress during this session of measures to streamline regulations and procedures influencing travel by both united states residents abroad and foreign tourists to the united states. should send the travel growth indicator upward again at a sharply increased pace. last year. about 1.350.000 united states residents went overseas. spending about $1.8 billion including the cost of transoceanic fares. and it is estimated that more than 1.5 million in 1958 will spend approximately $2 billion on overseas international travel. at the same time. about half a million foreign visitors from overseas entered the unitd states in 1957. and under present conditions it is anticipated that some 750.000 will visit us this year. and spend close to $1 billion on travel to and within our country. both fields are full of opportunity for expansion. also. taking positive action in congress  to advance friendly and fruitful contact between our citizens and other people and the free interchange of ideas. would be a clear demonstration to all nations of vigorous united states peace leadership. the provisions of the seven bills are as follows: first. permits united states residents returning home to bring in articles duty free up to the amount of $1.000 every 6 months. presently. the allowance is limited to $200 every month plus an extra $300 worth every 6 months. which actually limits the average occasional traveler to a $500 maximum. second. allows foreign visitors to bring into the united states $200 worth of gifts free of duty compared to the $10 limitation  in effect. third. uniformly establishes 24 hours as the period of absence from the united states required before a resident is entitled to bring in his dutyfree $200 monthly exemption. the time period varies from 24 to 48 hours at some border points today. fourth. permits united states residents to bring back to the united states free of duty for temporary periods automobiles rented abroad. our residents on a short swing back into united states territory under present regulations must either pay duty on the rented vehicle or place it under bond. fifth. extends the original life of a united states passport from 2 to 3 years and permits a 3year extension in lieu of the present 2year limit. sixth. amends the immigration and nationality act so that the attorney general may waive compliance for certain aliens in transit through the united states with certain inspection and examination provisions in the act. and regularize state department and immigration and naturalization procedure relating to the waiver of visa requirements in emergency situations. seventh. exempts from the transportation tax amounts paid in a foreign country by citizens of that foreign country for transportation within the united states. providing that this same foreign country allows a similar exemption to united states citizens. international travel is big business with far reaching effects on our own ecoy even when it involves travel overseas by united states residents. several countries. like the united kingdom. france. and italy. rely on tourism as their biggest single source of dollar earnings. in turn. united states foreign trade gets a tremendous boost as the countries playing host to americans spend the tourist dollars earned to purchase american goods and services. increased dollar earnings from american tourists. the randall report pointed out. can help to reduce the level of dollar assistance provided under the mutual security program. obviously. it is in our own national interest to promote the increase of foreign travel and tourism in every appropriate way as a legitimate means of encouraging our own ecoic and cultural growth. and in helping to achieve our foreign policy objectives of advancing world peace and preserving free institutions abroad.
what i have in mind is this: would there be anything in the statute. if the senators amendment were adopted. which would prevent the automobile dealer from giving the purchaser a credit of five percent on his automobile. the automobile manufacturer might  get the certification for 30 or 60 or 90 days. i believe most automobile dealers are in good egh financial shape so that they could wait for the refund by the manufacturer.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record resolutions adopted by the chambers of commerce of the cities of geneva and lyons. both in the state of new york. relating to the plight of the railroad industry.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two resolutions adopted by the executive committee of the supervisors association of the state of new york. and the board of trustees of the village of brockport. in the state of new york relating to the plight of the railroad industry.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. resolutions adopted by the governing bodies of sundry cities and towns of the state of new york. relating to the plight of the american railroad industry.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two resolutions adopted by the town board of the town of union. and chamber of commerce of saratoga springs. both of the state of new york. relating to the plight of the railroad industry.
the point i raised. in which the senator from connecticut was so deeply concerned. was the question of discontinuance if a net loss was shown. that being. in effect. the sole ground. as i understand. the conference report eliminates the net loss test. and the new test. which is  the test provided by the bill. as to the discontinuance of any commuter servicebecause that was what troubled us partciularlyis that it would constitute an undue burden upon the operations of such carrier or carriers. or upon interstate commerce. as i construe that provision. the commissionwould have to look at the overall situation of the entire railroad in order to determine the inequity of requiring it to continue a particular commuter branch.
. i had occasion. when the bill was before the senate. to invite the attention of the senate to the fact that it represented a preferential treatment for some people who were going to be admitted from the azores. we have  added to that some people who are refugees from what were the dutch east indies. each of these objectives is desirable. at the same time. as i stated to the senate at the time. one is informed that any effort to deal with general immigration problems by using the vehicle which is provided by the bill or by the conference report will result in killing the measure. which is desirable on its own. person like myself. who is interested in the deep problems of people. is going to take that chance. i k it is  an idle threat. i am sure the result would actually occur. so i did  seek to make the bill or to make the conference report a vehicle for far more inclusive immigration action. at the same time. it should be made clear that far more inclusive immigration action in the interest of the united states is urgently required. therefore. when the senator from mississippi was gracious egh to tell me he was going to bring the matter up. i arranged to ask him some questions as to what we might expect in january of next year in respect of an opportunity to get some immigration legislation which is urgently required by the national interest. i should like to propound these questions. the first matter to which i think we must direct our attention in all fairness is the situation of 200.000 refugees from behind the iron curtain who are resettled in europe. who are the subject of a most comprehensive report issued by the zellerbach commission on the european refugee situation. sponsored by the international rescue committee.
i do  think that is at all what i have in mind. if the words i have used are inartistic. in the opinion of the senator from mor.tana. i am sorry. the important point is to relate this matter to action in regard to berlinfor instance. in regard to the stopping of our convoy. just the other day. while it was on the road to berlin. that would be the sort of act which would relate to agency. it will be ed that my resolution does  say anything about agency. it is  part of my prepared speech. it is  what i am talking about.  and sent to west berlin to express to the senate of that citys government the senates spirit of understanding and support of the trials of the people of west berlin in the present crisis.
they do  relate to the resolution  being considered. they relate to the next resolution. that is why i intended to seek the floor in my own right. the questions concern commuters. there is a real. serious crisis in the whole commuter business around new york. the state which i have the ho. in part. to represent. new york has most of the commuters of the nation. there are 370.000 daily commuters to new york city alone. all of them are working people. most of them the heads of families. they are in very grave danger right  of losing a very large part of the service on which they depend. i e with satisfaction that the committee of which the distinguished senator from washington is the chairman intends to have this problem considered by the special committee which is proposed. i refer to the letter to the chairman of the committee on rules and administration. which discusses a study of the problems of commuter service as an integral part of the policy consideration of the kind and amount of railroad passenger service necessary to serve the public and provide for the national defense. our problem is that the horse may have died long before any further action can be taken. the problem stems from the debate on the transportation act. which was enacted only last year. in that act. the senator from washington will recall. congress allowed. for the first time. discontinuances of commuter services standing by themselves. that is. each commuter service standing on its own feet instead of in the context of the whole railroad system. the senator will remember that i fought against that. because i thought i saw what was coming. i was unhappily overruled at that time. but  there has already been discontinued in the state of new york a piece of railroad called the putnam division of the new york central railroad. also. there has just been a decision by the supreme court affirming the discontinuance by the delaware. lackawanna & western railroad of a ferry carrying passengers between new jersey and new york. the distinguished senior senator from new jersey . who is  in the chamber at the moment. has been fighting the battle very manfully as a member of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce and is trying very hard to get something done to remedy this condition. drastic remedies will have to be used to maintain the commuter service. outside of bankrupting the railroads themselves. money must be found to continue the commuter service. that service is highly essential to the business of my home city. it is essential to the transportation of important people. it is essential to the growth and development of the suburbs. which are very desirable from the point of view of the country. and essential to the national defense. i have risen to ask a question on the assumption that an urgent crisis confronts the commuters of the nation. i am delighted to see in the chamber the distinguished senator from florida . who has led the subcommittee with respect to this matter. my question is: can we expect that the committee which undertakes the special investigation will address itself on a crash basis to the matter of commuter service. whatever one may think about the advisability of the transportation act. or its inadvisability. the fact is that the commuter service is in a serious crisis. it is getting hurt. and badly hurt. we can wait. therefore. the body which gave birth to the power in the interstate commerce commission to allow discontinuances should also give birth to some remedies of the crisis which has been brought about by those in authority in the icc. will the senator from washington be so kind as to give me some information.
. when i heard what the senator was speaking about today i came to the chamber. i hope the lesson which the senator is teaching will  be lost in all the dust aboutand i say this with all due respect--the highway trust fund. which is very important. for the senator is speaking in terms of a very basic thing. the highway trust fund is  as important as the basic thing to which the senator is addressing himself. with all due respect. the particular tax loopholes the senator points out are  as important. either fundamentally. what the senator is talking about. which is very serious for our country. fundamentally the senator is telling us we are in grave trouble.
. i wish to identify myself with the bill introduced by the distinguished senator from new jersey and to comment on the action of the interstate commerce commission in permitting the discontinuance of commuter service. there are 500.000 railroad commuters in the united states. of whom 208.000 commute to new york city alone. i point out that only 100.000 commuters commute by automobile. so railroad commuter services are vital. the railroads lost $165 million on such service in 1958. last year i opposed that provision of the transportation act of 1958. which allows what i call hasty discontinuances. i hope we shall take constructive action .concerning the commuter problem. which is so grave and is one of the major problems of our country as it affects metropolitan areas. i am very glad to join with the distinguished senior senator from new jersey in the introduction of the bill. i believe we shall have other similar measures to suggest to congress.
. at the request of the senator from new jersey . on behalf of myself. on his behalf. on behalf of my colleague. the junior senator from new york . and the senator from new jersey . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a joint resolution granting the consent of congress to a compact entered into between the states of new york and new jersey for the creation of the new yorknew jersey transportation agency. we urge prompt action by the senate in consenting to this compact. many of the activities of the states of new york and new jersey are closely related. so. too. are the problems arising from these activities. chief among our joint problems today is the maintenance of essential rail transportation service. the railroads serving our people are constantly seeking to cut down or abandon their commuter services. which are increasingly unprofitable. without some highspeed means of traversing the hudson river from new jersey. new york city streets will be glutted with vehicular traffic they can carry. and new jersey residentsfaced with the prospect of rising fares and dwindling servicesare finding it more difficult to get to and from work. this problem should be solved by state and local action. the federal government has a responsibility to see that service is  destroyed while efforts are being made by the states to deal effectively with the problem. but the framework in which the interstate aspects of the problem can best be solved is by action of the states affected. our states have maintained a high order of cooperation in many endeavors. typical of these efforts is the bistate compact approved by the two state legislatures. and signed by govers rockefeller and meyner. this compact. which establishes a new yorknew jersey transportation agency. requires the approval of congress. pursuant to the constitution. today. we are joining in sponsoring a joint resolution to that end. it deserves the most expeditious consideration by congress. creation of this transportation agency under the compact is. in the judgment of our two states. a reasonable start toward the solution of our mass transportation problems.  grown to crisis proportions.
mi. president. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a joint resolution designating the week beginning july 27. 1959. and ending august 2. 1959. as "model aviation week." the joint resolution is introduced on behalf of myself and the senior senator from california [. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the joint resolution may be printed in the record.
i was necessarily absent on monday. when this matter was voted on. and did  have an opportunity to vote. i understand that at that time the distinguished senator from oklahoma informed the senate that. though this was the only thing that could be done . the subject should  be laid at rest. but that efforts to come abreast with the airport needs of the country would be pursued by him to the end that the results will be more tailored to the needs of the country. is that correct.
i believe that what the senator has just said is well worth saying. i admire him for saying it. i should like to be indulged for a moment while i. as a backbench senator on the republican side. tell him very briefly what i think about the argument with respect to "vetoproof" legislation. although it is  directly germane. also. the possible threat of veto from the white house. i have great respect for the senate. i have great respect for the majority leader and the miity leader. i think the senate should proceed to do its job patriotically. without any regard to whether the white house threatens a veto. and without any effort to adapt legislation to what is thought might get by without a veto. i believe that the senate should do its duty. as i am trying to do mine today. i have fear of a threatened veto. let us be practical. there were rumors that the railroad retirement bill would be vetoed. it was  vetoed. why. because the congress spoke decisively. and it was made clear that if it were vetoed. the veto would be overridden.
. i shall very briefly refer to this information. because i think it proves the point beyond peradventure of doubt. it proves the following: first. we need a certain span. five years is by means too long. second. we need adequate amounts of money. the amount of money provided by the substitute amendment. well intentioned as it is. will simply be inadequate. we need at least a billion dollars a year. third. wherever we do  step in the russians will come in to fill the vacuum. let us  forget that. we are  in this business on our own. this is the hardest. roughest. toughest kind of competition. i saw mr. kozlov at a private dinner in new york on sunday evening. and undoubtedly had an experience similar to that which senators had at lunch today. i can assure senators of the fact that the russians are extremely confident. they will move in anywhere we step out. and will be tickled to do it. the record shows that in leba. turkey. israel. jordan. nigeria. and ghana. morocco. and tunisia. southern italy. india. the philippines. latin america. and 11 other countries. we have pretty much the same situation. we can have a basis for private investment in those countries unless the stimulus is provided by basic capital for fundamental things like electric power plants. road construction. port modernization. which will cut handling costs and reduce turnabout time. sanitation. and health. all those things are absolutely indispensable. when we are through with all that. we must give people a little education. so that they can handle modern machinery. they will  tolerate our handling the machines. that is  the way of the modern world. finally. we must take account of the factand the senator from illis is holding a great series of hearings on the subjectthat we are  in the position which we formerly occupied. we must watch our balance of payments. our balance of payments may be running against us before too much time goes by. why. because there is a lag between the industrialization of the world and the increase in standards of living. therefore there should be an effort to soak up the goods produced in the industrial countries. and better the organization of the industrial countries. such as japan and the european market community. to supply the wants of the world. a great amount of goods is chasing customers. what we must do is to make more customers. we are able to do it. we have the priceless ability to invest in order to make more and better customers.  only for us. but for all the world. if we do  take advantage of this opportunity. we shall be giving the russians the victory. because they will move in where we do . if we do  provide a basis for private investment in those countries. if we do  set the basis for private investment which private investment needs. we shall be hurting our own ecoic future in the united states. upon the basis of all those hard grounds ephemeral. humanitarian considerations. but sheer survival. and the survival of the ecoic system of the united statesi hope the senate will stand with the senator from arkansas.
. after deep consideration. as he did in the case of the railroad retirement bill. though he may feel he does  like it at all. as he probably will. will feel the bill is worth signing into law. i believe there is such a good chance it will happen that i shall support the bill.
. to demonstrate that the problems of civil rights in the country are just as much on the .minds of the people as they are on the minds of the members of congress. and that action is demanded and dictated by the whole situation which faces us.  only in the south. but also elsewhere in the nation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. a letter from the leadership conference on civil rights. signed by officials of the leading organizations in the whole civil rights field. including the american council on human rights. the american jewish committee. the american veterans committee. the americans for democratic action. the american jewish congress. the friends committee on national legislation. the naacp. the american civil liberties union. the sleeping car porters. and the united steelworkers of america.
. i should like to lay before the senate. so that it will be of record. the information we have with respect to the relocation of people who are displaced from urban renewal sites or from road construction operations.
. i wish to call to the attention of the senate a very remarkable development in the labor union field which has resulted in the brotherhood of railroad trainmen. who recently met in convention. eliminating discrimination on grounds of race or color. it has erased from its charter. its organization. and its operation this racial ban. this action comes following considerable debate on this subject at the annual convention of aflcio. at that time a pledge was made that great efforts would be undertaken to bring about this advance in trade unionism. it has resulted in this action by the brotherhood of railroad trainmen. i am delighted to see that this has been accomplished. in that connection i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks an editorial entitled "racial bias in unions" published in the new york times.
however. it is a means of restoring some degree of equal opportunity for both sides. will the senator state whether he has in mind the possibility of exploring what can be done about commuter rates. especially in light of what i consider to be the very interesting initiative taken in philadelphia. by means of the socalled intercity plan. by which the government helped the roads do a good job. and fares were reduced. so as to make rail traffic more attractive. perhaps other avenues could be explored in that connection.
though i do  wish to detain the senate. i think the senate will understand my reasons for seeking a minute or two to put something on the record which i think is important. the motion to discharge which was made august 26. 1959. was made by the senator from new jersey and myself. i think we have a right to state why both of us voted against the resolution to discharge as proposed to the senate. and i have little doubt we will take the same action on the next resolution. . i believe we all understandif we do . we are  very reasonablethat the final outcome of this debate will probably be far different from what it is starting out to be. we will undoubtedly have some kind of a bill from the house. or we will have some kind of a bill from the senate committee. hearings have been printed. and hearings will be printed. there are likely to be reports. whether from the other body or from committees of this body. or both. so in substance and for all substantive purposes the reason why the discharge motion was made last august will have been served. one step. whether it is important or . will have been served. and that is the motion to consider a bill from which a committee is discharged. because there is a bill before us and we are  operating on it. hence the opportunity for debate is limited to the one substantive question of the bill and bypasses a motion to consider the bill. after saying that. which i think is a complete reason why we have taken the position we have. i should like to tell the senator from oregon. my dear friend and my very respected colleague. that i join with my colleague from minnesota and my colleague from colorado in paying respect to his perseverance and his deep sincerity. as well as his belief in the rules. i may be occupying the very same position the senator is today. upon aher occasion. i hope that he will understand in our votes against the resolutions which he has offered there is derogation whatever of the basic principle he is putting forth. it is only a feeling that. balancing all the equities together. those who were called a minute ago the liberals believe the advance of the cause for which we are here will be more facilitated by proceeding along the line which we have already adopted. with the car which is on the track. i think it would be less than fair to the senator from oregon to have the world feel that the very large vote the other way represented anything but a judgment of the balance of efficiency in terms of getting the job done. it did  represent any repudiation either of the sincerity of the senators motives or of the principle he was trying to espouse and there is need to apologize at all. i did wish to make this brief statement.
. this morning the newspapers annced "navy ends clause tied to arab ban." this involves the use by the navys military sea transportation service of the socalled haifa clause. which barred any vessel which had stopped at an israeli port from being utilized in the msts. admiral ga who is the distingushed commander of the msts. was in to see me this morning. and brought me a memorandum which i ask unanimous consent to have made a part of my remarks. and which terminated the use of this clause.
i should like to join with my colleague in this matter. we had occasion to discuss it at a breakfast given by the port authority the other day. i think we shall undertake to marshal the achievements of the port authority as a very. very important aspect of this particular proceeding. if i were to make a prediction. i say to my colleague. i think that at the end of the proceeding. if it is really gone through with. the port authority will come out stronger than when it went in.
. u.s. free world leadership is facing difficult tasks in attempting to unite the ecoic potential of the western industrial powers and bring this great potential to bear upon the epic ecoic challenge posed by the need of the lessdeveloped areas of the world which must be helped to achieve ecoic progress in a framework of free institutions. the urgency of meeting these tests and of helping the emerging nations along the road of ecoic development is greatly intensified by the existence of soviet power. offering assistance to the developing nations on terms which are vague but generally spell communist domination. the free world effort is being made within the framework of the dillon plan. excellently set forth in an editorial of todays new york times. which i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record.
i thank the senator. what we are concerned about is trying to reach some end point. if the senator really feels that something must be done about voting. it would be wrong for us in the course of cvi-----443 .strengthening the due process feature to really nullify the whole operation in an area where it has been shown to require strengthening. it is a climatic situation. which inhibits and frustrates. especially where it is backed up by traveling the hard road of the record of some violence. then a threat becomes the real thing to a person who has been living with the situation for 80 or 90 years. i am certain the senator from tennessee feels as the rest of us do. it is simply a question as to whether. quite unwittingly. out of the very desire for due process. something is being inserted which will nullify what we are trying to get in terms of making these people feel like any other persons. that they can and should register.
 eisenhower who saw to it that previous executive orders banning segregation in the armed services were fully implemented. he established both a government employment policies committee and a committee on government contracts to help end discrimination in employment. he saw to it there was prompt compliance in the district of columbia with the supreme courts order for desegregation of the public schools. and in 1957. the administration proposed broadscale civil rights legislation which led to the enactment of the first major bill in that field in some 80 years and again this year. a voting rights bill was passed to strengthen the attorney generals hand in cases brought under the 1957 act. also. in the faas own field. transportation. the interstate commerce commission under this administration ended "jim crowism" in interstate bus and train travel. and has sought to end segregated facilities in passenger terminals despite the fact that federal funds were involved in their construction. that stacks up as a good record and should be further buttressed with action to prevent segregated facilities in airline terminals. it should be clearly understood that facilities or equipment which contribute to air safety are  involved. as they can be established separately from airport terminal construction. the funds which my amendment would affect pertain solely to administration buildings including passenger terminals. and there the expenditure of these funds should be authorized in such a way as to promote to tend to frustratenational policy which clearly does  condone segregated facilities for use by interstate travelers. commitments already made are a problem but i can see that we can avoid scrutiny of the whole matter on that account. if we did we might never catch up with the situation if appropriations succeeded instead of preceding commitments. hearings are scheduled to begin next monday. may 16. before the senate appropriations committee on the independent offices bill which contains the federal aid airport program including the request for nearly $500.000 to help pay for the completion of terminal construction for the airports in birmingham and tallahassee which will contain segregated facilities. i hope that the committee will have an opportunity to delve thoroughly into this contemplated expenditure and look with favor on my amendment. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment may be printed in the record. together with my exchange of correspondence with the administrator of the federal aviation agency. and a copy of the 1956 memorandum setting forth the airport building policy followed by the faa in dealing with localities which desire to build segregated facilities within the federally aided airport buildings.
. there is critical need for improving our ties with peoples from all parts of the world. and one way to do this is by encouraging more visits to the united states. it is extremely important to have citizens of other nations meet americans from many walks of life to observe our ways and to appraise at first hand our attitudes and intentions. it must also be recognized that a substantial increase in the number of visitors from abroad will result in an expenditure in the united states of sufficient significance to help reduce the annual deficit in our balance of trade payments. i have been actively engaged for some years in the effort to promote international travel. and some of my proposals .are incorporated in s. 3102. a bill to establish an office of international travel and tourism. which i cosponsored with the senator from washington and which was adopted by the senate on june 7. 1960. numerous legal barriers. however. confront potential visitors to the united states. more than 30 provisions under which immigrant visitors can be kept out of this country are listed in our immigration laws. and while many of them can be waived. they nevertheless can be regarded as encouraging to the foreign tourist. visas are required. other country requires fingerprinting of alien visitors. while in most cases the united states waives this provision of the law. the visa officer may require fingerprinting of an individual to make a security check if he feels it necessary. a visa may be withheld if the officer has reason to believe that the applicant is a person whose presence will be prejudicial to the public interestitself a value judgment. once the tourist passes all these barriers and arrives in this country. he is required to register with the immigration and naturalization service on arrival. giving the address where he will be located and informing the immigration and naturalization service within 10 days of any change of his address. what this means in terms of its effect on tourist travel to the united states is brilliantly illustrated in a letter which came to my office from naples. italy. the writer is sr. antonio del giudice. commanding officer of the motorized section of the police force in that city. his letter graphically describes the problems which he faced when he tried to visit the united states and provides an object lesson of telling clarity. his story has a happy ending because recently arrangements were completed to bring him here on a 2week tour around the united states of america and pan american airways gave him passage over. on june 25 sr. del giudice will arrive at idlewild airport via pan american jet clipper for a 2weeks tour of the united states to study traffic control problems in some of our larger cities. cooperating with pan american in these arrangements are the american express co.. readers digest. the society of american travel writers. and the travel writers association. i ask unanimous consent that sr. del giudices letter be printed in the record.
. after so clearly and demonstrably proving the situation. which can be confirmed by observation by any person who goes to an airport in the southeastern part of our country. i felt that. as a senator. i must try to do something about that situation. that is why i am about to propose this amendment.
. this amendment proposes to equalize the roads program with other federal government programs. namely the urban renewal program and the federal construction program. where we have already decided in the senate to help the local communities with the problem of tenant relocation under urban renewal. the united states participates in the first $200 for individuals and families. where relocation is necessitated by the urban renewal clearance program. and the first $3.000 for business. this amount is paid entirely by the united states. the rest is part of the project cost. the other day the senate passed s. 2583. providing for the reimbursement of tenants for moving expenses where the united states itself acquires the land. in respect to the road projects. i have an estimate. which is a little dated. but i think is still valid in terms of our problems in new york. for example. more than 9.000 families must be relocated in connection with projects on the interstate highway system. the average estimate of what it costs to relocate such a family is somewhere between $200 and $500. i heard the discussion between the senator from arkansas and the senator from alaska about who pays taxes for whom. i call attention to the fact that the people of new york state pay 20 percent of the tax load. that is something of a neat figure of $12 to $14 billion a year. so we do pay our taxes. and. of course. we never get back anything remotely close to what we pay.  can we. at the same time. while we are glad to go along with these programs which are so beneficial to western areas and unsettled areas like alaska. we also want recognition of our problems in congested places like new york city. where families are displaced and where the road plan is different from the other plans in which the federal government is engaged. it is for those reasons that i offer the amendment. the senator from minnesota . unfortunately. is  in the chamber. he and i had an agreement that if he were here and offered the amendment. he would offer it for me. if i were here. i would offer it for him. my colleague joins me. having succeeded senator ives. who was on this proposal with me for a long time.
. yesterday the house judiciary committee recommended to the house that s. sloan colt. chairman of the port of new york authority. austin j. tobin. executive director. and joseph g. carty. secretary. be cited for contempt of congress in that they failed to produce materials called for by a subpena issued by subcommittee  5 of the house judiciary committee. the port authority is an agency created by the states of new york and new jersey under a bistate compact approved by the congress in 1921. on the return date of the subpena messrs. colt. tobin. and carty. acting in their capacity as officials of a bistate agency. produced the official documents and records responsive to the subpena. but. pursuant to instructions from the govers of the states of new jersey and new york. withheld the internal papers. including memorandums and daily worksheets. called for by the subpena. i am advised that the govers instructions were based on the advice of their respective attorneys general that there is a substantial question whether all of the documents subpenaed can constitutionally be demanded of a state agency by the house committee and that the govers had. in fact. sought an opportunity to discuss this and other similar questions with the subcommittee. i ask unanimous consent that the instructions from govers rockefeller and meyner to the officers of that agency be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
 in trying to have unfinished business completed. civil rights is just as much unfinished business as any of the other business before the senate. i think the senator from illis can face up to it with great pride. rules are  made to kill legislation or to chain it. that is a misconception which some of our colleagues have. rules are roads to fulfilling the objectives of the constitution. namely. to vote on legislation. finally. i sincerely hope that politics will  be used to kill what should be done in the civil rights field by talking to us about a pallid bill. i and senators on the other side of the aisle voted for pallid bills in 1957 and 1960. because they were the best bills we could get under the given circumstances. i do  believe senators on the democratic side who favor civil rights will vote to kill any civil rights provision which with our votes could be obtained. on the ground that it might help someone politically. i do  believe they are that narrowminded. i do  believe they are so shortsighted. i will  believe it until i see it. certainly. the charge of politics can be hurled. but what is this all about. how will it be possible to get legislation affecting any phase of american life unless people stand up for something and then ask for it and back it.
as the senator ks. i am for the bill. i signed the majority report. and i intend to stay with the bill. if the senator is giving consideration to accepting certain modifications. has the senator given any consideration to this much discussed question of automobile mechanics who are treated differently in the same establishment.
i would like to talk about the means test. if i may. we are faced. in the discussion of the bill. with a very interesting aaly. it seems to me that the position of the two political parties has been almost completely overturned and reversed in a very interesting way. it may have some bearing on the merits of our respective approaches. i might say to the senator that matter how he or i may vote on this matter. he will sleep well and comfortably. and so will i. because i believe that the senator from michigan and the other senators who joined with both of us have immeasurably moved our parties along this road to the point where the aged will be well cared for matter which amendment we vote tomorrow. i am positive both parties business is going to get done. i am just as certain of that as i am that i am standing here today. so i think e of us has to apologize for our roles.
 kennedy in his special message to congress on highways. i am thoroughly elated that the administration has decided to support this legislation to correct an inequity to thousands of families and businesses who are displaced by federal highway projects. relocation has been a problem on all public improvement projects. the government has provided for assistance for families displaced by urban renewal projects. but has failed to give the same help to those affected by highway projects. new york worlds fair highway construction is expected to force the relocation of approximately 3.000 persons in the next 3 years. and other federal highway works are expected to displace thousands of other persons in new york state alone. while these projects are necessary. it is unfair to expect these people to carry the burden of relocation. so i am delighted to see the administration indicate its support of this legislation and this program.
. appointed to study this question pursuant to an amendment which i moved to have made a part of the mutual security act a few years ago. the entire problem has been one which has had very longstanding attention by me. i was the chairman of the subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy of the house committee on foreign affairs which held the first hearings. which pointed out what we were losing in tourism. and how much we were losing. in 1954 and 1955. i have worked on the problem ever since. i am delighted to see. at long last. the full recognition which is being given to this urgent problem. to which we could have been attending years ago had the views of people like myself and those in the tourist industry. as well as the report of the hoable clarence randall. been listened to. it is better late than never. i should like to express my appreciation to the distinguished chairman of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce . who has picked up the ball and run with it so very effectively. i hope very much he will give these measures which i am introducing today the same attention as that which resulted in the passage of the measure. so long overdue. to create a u.s. travel office.
. while the united states has been slow to recognize the important service that an international travel office such as senator magnuson and i have proposed could provide. private travel carriers and travel organizations are demonstrating in a modest way what can be done in response to the growing tourist travel market. the need for brochures. pamphlets. posters. and other promotional materials to persuade foreign travelers in their native language to include the united states in their tours can only be met in sufficient quality and quantity by the federal government. the united states. however. is the only world power that does  maintain a tourist information service. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a survey of some of the needs which exist overseas by irwin robinson. entitled "signposts for travel u.s.a." which appeared in travel weekly. march 14.
i offer the amendment in behalf of myself. my distinguished colleague from new york . the assistant majority leader. the senator from minnesota . and the senator from connecticut . i shall take only a minute to explain it. the amendment relates to the definition of the word "construction" in the law as it  reads. the amendment goes to the proposition that the federal highway law which we are dealing with tonight. unlike the urban renewal act. for example. and other acts with which we have dealt. makes provision whatever for the dislocation and enforced removal of tenants who are in the path of a federal highway project. this is  their fault. they receive compensation by way of a condemnation award. they are up against it and out of luck. the president of the united states. in his message to congress on february 28. takes special cognizance of this situation and urges that we do something about it. he draws an analogy with the urban renewal law. he urges a good deal more than is contained in the amendment. he urges that such people be given help in finding reasonable housing at reasonable cost.  merely the cost of relocating. or moving from one place to aher. the problem is very serious for thousands of families in new york city alone. at present. we are facing displacements which have already occurred or are about to occur with respect to 18.000 families. a survey by the department of commerce on this question. dated june 8. 1961. indicates that in six states alone the displacement of 90.000 families must be dealt with. . i ask unanimous consent that the survey by the department of commerce be printed at this point in the record.
the amendment has hing to do with the dislocation of persons by urban renewal projects. i was referring to the fact that in his message to congress on the highway program the president of the united states used the urban renewal program as an analogy. it was  my argument. i was only reporting what the president had said in his message.
the amendment was submitted last year to the senator from new mexico . who was then in charge of the bill. he said he would consider it very carefully in connection with this years bill. therefore. the amendment was  pressed at that time.  we have a recommendation from the president on the subject. i suppose that is the highest form of consideration which could be given such a proposal. in its report. at page 17. the committee recognized this problem but did  actually take any action on it. so the subject has had consideration. i have received the factual report of the bureau of public roads. which i have just had printed in the record. showing in six states the number of families which would be affected. so the subject has had consideration over a considerable period of time. and. as i have said. i believe the highest form of approval which could be obtained is the recommendation of the president himself. that is contained in the presidents message of february 28. 1961. on the highway program.
if we did that. i think we would be passing up the whole matter before we even had an opportunity to speak on this proposal. i believe we should ask the committee at least to accept this principle. and then i think the committee will work out the matter in accordance with what the bureau of roads thinks is best and in accordance with what is best for the whole program.
the message goes even further. the president said: i urge that the federal highway law be amended to require similar assurances of help in finding reasonable housing at reasonable costs for all those displaced from their homes by future federalaid highway projects.
i must disagree when the senator says there are agencies of government dealing with it. this is an area in which people who are being displaced by road construction involving a national highway program are being hurt and have appeal. they are out of luck. let us get that perfectly straight. it is very unfair and unjust. naturally. one is  going to seek to overthrow the whole conference report for that reason alone. we k that. but it does  change the injustice of what exists.
i am trying to get the responsibility fixed. does the senator state it is the view of his committeeor perhaps the senator might wish to talk to members of the committee about itthat this is a matter which state highway departments should do themselves. without federal help. advisory or otherwise.
if the senator will allow me to interject. i think that brings us to the question which came up the other day in respect to highways. when there is highway displacement of families with relief provided.
madam president. i call attention to the following paragraph of the editorial: the sincerity of gover meyner in championing the new jersey cause need  be questioned. i certainly do  question it. although i thoroughly disagree with the gover. but the realization of his aim will  come about through an isolationist policy separating his state from the larger community. his goal can be achieved if flew jersey accepts a full partnership in this unique undertaking. it is on that point to which i wish to address my remarks as a senator from new york. we are very proud of the metropolitan area of new york. which is a tristate area. it is an area which includes a very large population. the most populous part of the state of new jersey. the great city of new york and ts environs. and a very large population in fairfield county. connecticut. as well. it seems to me that great pride ought to be taken by each of the component states of this metropolitan area in its emous population. its outstanding achievements. and the fact that it is. in many ways.  only the center of commerce. finance. and many educational and cultural activities. but also that it is the seat of the united nations. as one of new yorks own senators i may say that this area is considered by us  as new yorks province. either in the sense of the city or the state. but as the property and the heritage of the whole area. many of us. including myself. have supported the work of the port of new york authority and other bistate and tristate agencies. we want to continue to do that. whether it re:ates to water supply or the port or transportation facilities. or to commutation facilities. because this is the way of the future. the way of the future means that we are a whole country. and that even if there are state lines. we will  let them interfere with what we have accomplished in the interest of the people of an area. if it is necessary to jump over state lines. that may be done by interstate compacts or by other arrangements which can be made for that purpose. so we would really  wish in any way to enter into a controversy about this matter. certainly education does  prosper in terms of controversy. yet i express the hope that the gover of new jersey will carefully consider the position. which i believe is quite objective. of a great newspaper like the new york times. and determine in good conscience whether the tremendous service for educational purposes of such a great television channel as channel 13 would  represent. in a sense. a blessing which the state of new jersey should facilitate for the whole metropolitan area. taking great pride in the fact that it is making that great contribution. and in the fact that this great public benefit emanates from newark. in the state of new jersey. especially is this true because. as i k. and the times says so. the group which is concerned has given its assurance that the programing will give the utmost consideration to the state of new jersey in terms of local activities. local endeavors. local ideas and aspirations. and the capabilities which the state itself might produce for placing programs on this channel. i hope we may have this excellent offer. to which i have just referred. pursued in the whole metropolitan area. and that rather than any feeling that new jersey would be denied. as the gover of new jersey puts it. "full utilization of this important communication medium for community interest needs." the gover and the people of new jersey may feel that here is a great opportunity in which they can gain the greatest satisfaction by making possible so broad a public service as would this channel devoted to educational purposes.
. if we reorient our thinking with that as the main effort we shall have a real opportunity. at a stage of the road which is ahead of where we are today. to negotiate with the russians and to negotiate successfully and fruitfully. whereas right  i think the mood of the russians is such. apparently. that negotiations are sterile in terms of making any progress. somehow or other we have to get off dead center. i do  think we can get off dead center the most effectively by being simply "tough" or simply by arming. i think we can get off dead center the most effectively by transferring as many of the present discussions as possible to the united nations. where discussions can continue. and by making our main effort at integration of the free world in the ways in which i mentioned only a few minutes ago.
the second point is this: i am  a moralist. i am  trying to moralize for anyone else. it seems to me. considering the moral implications of what we do when we pay the federal share for these facilities. it is a duty for people who feel as i doand i think there are a good many of them in this chamberto say. " we can do it." that is really fundamental to the argument. the senators statement of fact is absolutely correct. i think i stated most of the facts myself. i do  controvert those facts. it seems to me there is a moral decision as to whether we shall pay federal money at an airport at which we are looking down the muzzle of the gun. at which we k there are segregated facilities in the same structure with other facilities for which the government has paid. this. it seems to me. is offensive to my oath as a u.s. senator. and i want to have the opportunity to say ""
i am delighted. as has happened so often before. to find that the views of the distinguished senator from washington are my views. whatever may have been his opposition to my amendment on the independent offices appropriation bill. when he had other reasons for opposing it. because he is just as dedicated to this issue of civil rights as some others of us are. and i am certainly delighted to have him move into this field in an active way. the senator from washington will recall that when he moved into the international travel field. things really happened. i am glad to have been able to pioneer in that field and to have been able to join with him in accomplishing the fine things that have resulted. so. whatever might be the attitude of a senator on a particular measure. such as an appropriation bill. and whatever might be the attitude of our colleagues in the senate who come from the south as to their social order and what they think is best for their communities. e of those things can obtain in the field of interstate commerce. the boynton case. to which the senator has made reference has a tremendous range and application. without regard to direct relationship as between particular parties. to the power of our governmental regulating commissions. i shall certainly pledge myself to join the senator from washington in this field. in which i have undertaken similar activities. and in connection with which have received similar communications. i understand that regulations are imminent on the part of the icc. i like the fact that the federal aviation agency has  revised its regulations. i believe we are on the threshold. with the cooperation of the department of justice. of a real breakthrough. which will go a long way toward cleaning up this situation. as segregation was cleaned up in the district of columbia. i am grateful to the senator from washington for his elucidation of the matter.
. we are in a race in time. what is called the revolution. the explosion. going on in the world is attributable to competition in time. so that is the first reason why we have to do what we can. even though it is inadequate. we have to try to mobilize our resources so that our impact may be concentrated. as we did in wartime. and concentrate in several points what we lack in sums of money. second. we are meeting the competition of the russians in time. the russians have an aid program comparable to ours. they are putting out  something over $1 billion a year. adding to that chinese communist money and the money of their satellites. they come close. in amounts of aid. to what we are doing. except they are  tied to any inhibitions. they can make their commitments. over a period.  only of 5 years. but 10 and 20 years. and even longer. third. the progress in the underdeveloped countriesand india is the most remarkable example of themhas  brought them abreast of the capability of absorbing a commitment over a long term. i wish to repeat that. because it is very important. the progress in the newly developing countries has  come abreast of receiving and usefully employing a commitment over a long term. these countries had great difficulty in planning their own development. they lacked technical people. they lacked accessibility to their own populations. with the ideas. they lacked some of the most basic developments needed for any program. think of the hundreds and thousands of villages in india alone which had outlet to any road. i have been in some of those myself. many senators have been in some of those. those villages had outlets to roads for centuries. many are only  getting them. many countries at long last are  reaching the point where they can plan. this is the third 5year plan for india. india can  plan. in order to absorb money committed over a substantial period of time. indeed. many countries are reaching the point of progress in their own development where this is all they need. for those three reasons this program should be adopted. first. there is the inadequacy of the program. because we have been unable to mass our means. and we  k we can get more means in the united states than. roughly. $4 billion. so we must mass those means over the 5year program. second. there is the competition of the communist bloc. which has  reached its apogee. which is  strong. and almost equals our own. third. there is the progress and the development for the planning in the developing countries. all of these together create a new exigency which we did  face beforeand it is a new exigency.
. is it  true that if amendments are ruled  germane. they may etheless be proposed by the vehicle of suspension of the rule. as the senator from montana has proposed. if ice has been given. as required by the rule.
madam president. i wish to invite attention to the progress of the new york worlds fair which is to be held in 1964. that is  a very long time away. considering the size and scope of such an endeavor. i have the ho to state for the record in the senate that h.r. 7763. the bill to enable the united states to participate in the fair. if the congress decides it should do so. has  passed in the other body. i pay special tribute to representative celler. the chairman of the committee on the judiciary. to representative delaney. who represents all of us in new york on the executive committee of the board of directors of the worlds fair corp.. to representative dante fascell. of florida. the floor manager of the bill. and to representative edna kelly. of new york. one of the principal sponsors. for bringing about this fine action. and. of course. the entire new york congressional delegation. republican and democratic members alike. deserves thanks for its unremitting efforts on behalf of timely action on the legislation. the bill is  pending in the senate. it is my hope that there will be prompt action in the senate  that h.r. 7763 has passed in the other body. it is very essential that this action be taken before congress adjourns in this session. because otherwise the time limitations will seriously handicap effective and orderly planning for u.s. participation in the fair should the united states choose to do so. i have little doubt it will choose to do so. but. in any event. the united states will  be committed to participate by passage of this bill. madam president. the bill. s. 2103. sponsored by my distinguished colleague from new york and myself. and the companion legislation. h.r. 7763. provides only for u.s. planning and recommendations by january 15. 1962. as to what shall be the nature of participation by the united states in the fair. and provides for the appointment by the president of the u.s. commissioner for the new york worlds fair. the amount involved is very small. only $300.000 in the authorization. which is subject to action through appropriations. more than 50 foreign governments have signified their intention to participate in the new york worlds fair. and so have 21 states and the commonwealth of puerto rico. i respectfully submit to the senators from the states which have already evidenced their intention to participate in the fair that they shouldand i hope very much they willtake a very close interest in planning for u.s. participation. the fair promises to be as much of a landmark in the history of our country as was the new york worlds fair of the late 1930s. about which many of us in the senate k from personal experience and attendance. and equal to the other great fairs of our past. in chicago. san francisco. and other major centers. i hope very much we may put ourselves on the road to appropriate participation by the united states. new york city is  only the financial center of our country. it is also an emous center of culture. perhaps the leading cultural center in the world today. many people feel today. as i feel. that new york city is really a world capital. housing. as it does. under special circumstances provided by the congress. the united nations. madam president. i hope for the day when all of us in the congress may feel. as many of us feel today. that new york is a source of pride and gratification to us all. as demonstrating the power. the dynamism. the scope and the majesty of our country. i believe by helping the new york worlds fair in the very modest way suggested by the bill we may forward this idea. madam president. the world is becoming a world of cities. new york city stands preeminent among those cities. as every traveler to new york attests. i look forward eagerly to the participation of the united states in new yorks worlds fairand to the national dignity and beneficial influence which such participation will bring. so i think it would be a great pleasure for our fellow countrymen to k that the fair exists. to visit it whenever they choose to do so. and to enjoy the great opportunities which it would offer. they can make it a point of great national pride. as we feel in washington. that new york city can have a magic for all the world and can be representative of so much which represents the power. the dignity. and importance of our society. and its demonstrated success.
 of the united states. it was a year in which we cut the usia appropriation from $115 million to about $90 million. we cut the usia to ribbons. i was a brandnew senator at that time. etheless. this action appalled me. i argued the question at considerable length with the then majority leader. he insisted that the way to reconstruct the agency and make it effective would be to cut it down to the bone. i think he cut deeply into the bone. the argument was that it would then build itself up. i beg senators to examine the debate which took place at that time. in which precisely that statement was made. what happened. the usia has  recovered to this day. the usia is still suffering from losses of personnel. position. broadcasting. and stations. we have only ourselves to blame for having practically destroyed this agency in 1957. george allen testified to that point. he has been building and rebuilding the agency. until  it is receiving appropriations of about $130 million. ed murrow is traveling the same very hard road back. i hope that we do  make the same mistake  by  providing the minuscule amount of money that is involved. and thus mute the voice of a giant. until it becomes a tiny squeak. that is what we would be doing. it is great shakes in terms of money if we adopt both my amendments to give the usia in round figures something like $130 million. i am asking for restoration of $61/2 millionthe russian communists and chinese communists spend $2 billion. that is  according to my testimony. but according to the testimony of authoritative experts. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i conclude by stating that we have an opportunity in respect to this amendment. for a very small sum of money. to show whether we really intend to travel the road back with the u.s. information agency in the terms of the size of our voice. though it may seem irrelevant to have introduced into the debate the comments on nuclear testing made by the distinguished senator from tennessee and the distinguished senator from missouri. important as it is as a substantive issue. i think it is very relevant. that is precisely what we are talking about. king all of these thingsthe lack of confidence. the lack of good faith. and the dangersto whom are we able to say them. and how effectively can we say them. as the senate takes the bit in its teeth tonight. for $2 million it can show that so far as this agency is concerned it is on the way back from the policy of review. we can give this agency what it needs . instead of providing it when it is long past the time to be used effectively. we can do something very constructive. to show that we really understand the meaning of the russian renewal of nuclear testing about which we have heard tonight.
 i shall  object because i am a party to the agreement. but i wish to make it clear. so that the time element may be understood. that from the time on the bill i shall need about a half hour to develop the legal problems incident to segregation in airport terminals. with the manager of the bill present on the floor. i state that in my opinion the situation is such that the law  prohibits what the administration is allowing to occur. i think it needs to be developed. i only want to be sure that in the time allocated on the bill it was understood that i would need the amount of time i suggested to develop the subject.
i should like to propound an inquiry to the senator from oklahoma. if i may. on this question. as the senator ks. my colleague and i have done a little work on this matter. we understand that it is contrary to the policy of faa to operate any airport where clearly the communitythe governlnental body of the county in this caseis against it. can the senator give us any expression of view on that.
i may say that the nassau county board of supervisors. the governing body. both on may 8. 1961. and on july 10. 1961. has directly voiced its stand against any airport at mitchel field. as a result of any change in mitchel fields status. i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions of the board of supervisors of nassau county be printed in the record at this point.
if the senator will allow me. i should like to develop this point. the port of new york authoritys jurisdiction does  include mitchel field. i should like to summarize what the senator has told us in his very able language. unless a governmental body. that is. a state or lower political subdivisionand we are  talking about the united states seeks the aid of the faa. under the airport act. it is  the policy of faa to give such aid. to continue an airport.
as a practical matter the gsa the federal aviation agencywould be selling this property. and as we understood the senator.  only . but when he previously expressed his point of view. the faa itself certainly would  operate an airport in the teeth of the opposition of the community.
at any rate. in the absence of a show of "force majeur." i think it is highly unlikely that the faa would proceed in that way. especially when governmental agency on the state or local level has shown an interest in developing a general aviation airport. therefore. in view of the way the amendment has been worked outit  seems to be satisfactory to the senator from oklahomaand also in view of the stated policy. i can understand how the senator can take the position that we can only go by the attitude of the agency and the attitude of the gsa itself. as evidenced by their actions. it seems to me that is as effective an arrangement as any that can be made with respect to this matter in connection with this bill. madam president. i should like to express my appreciation to my colleague .
madam president. the icc recommendations for direct federal subsidy for the railroads is realistic in relation to the new term financial road that seems to stretch particularly before the eastern railroads. but they fail to take account of the basic problem. if eastern railroads continue in their present direction without federal assistance. they are very likely to end up nationalized because there would be other alternative. this would be a disaster for private enterprise in our countryone of the strongest supports of our freedoms. accordingly. the icc recommendations represent a first step. but this will  solve the railroads problems unless the federal government wants to give them longterm subsidy of a size tantamount to nationalization and this would be selfdeception. modernization of the railroads is necessary if they are to survive their crisis. and the research and investment needed to- bring about proper modernization should be made available. also. commuter roads and terminal facilities need to be tied in with local rapid transit systems and other local means of transportation under more efficient metropolitan area planning. the problem of displaced employees must also be dealt with in a constructive way without any hardships to them and in the interest of the best in labor management relations. a new program for the railroads may also involve a new approach to rates. taxation. depreciation. utilization of rights of way and similar measures. these are very preliminary obligations but a master plan is essential for the railroads shortterm survival and longterm usefulness. as a leading example of private enterprise in the united states. in the past. i have proposed a federal research program for the railroads. i am  preparing other measures which i will present at the next session of congress to help deal with this critical problem.
madam president that statement was made withstanding the fact that any contract against public policy is invalid. and every lawyer ks it. we argued that point. but we were defeated. madam president. we longer face that situation. there is contract involved. there is only a federal law to be enforced. and it is  being enforced. it will  be enforced until this agency. with the backing of the white house. takes the bit in its teeth to enforce it. this agency. in addition to the cab. has the authority to take away licenses from carriers which use segregated airports. this agency. in addition to the cab. has the power to cripple any airport which engages in segregation.  satisfied to use that power. what is being attempted . under color of the boynton case. which is an excellent case. is that the administration has instructed the attorney general to institute suits to desegregate airports in the south. that is the same as the school desegregation. it is a fine idea to institute suits. but it will take far more years than we have any right to wait. especially since all the african diplomats are circulating around the united states and they still go into the southern airports. even international airports. and see in the waiting rooms and restrooms the signs "for colored only." or "for white only." this is a shocking disgrace to our country. and it can be completely stopped and prohibited by the federal agency concerned. the law is adequate on the subject. but the agency will  use it. all we can do is to protest. to cry out to the high heavens against this practice. that is my purpose today. let us consider the specifics of the problem. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the federal aviation agency may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks. so that there will be question about the position and what the agency says.
madam president. this subject is divided by the agency into a number of parts. first. in the past there was financing of terminal buildings with faa help. the terminal buildings were owned by a municipality. and the financing was  with direct federal money. but instead was a financing of the shell rather than the restaurant facilities or the restroom facilities. the agency permitted the municipality to build those facilities. then that portion was segregated. the agency held. for a long time. that procedure was all right. that the agency had hing to do with something to which it did  actually contribute specific dollars for the building of the particular walls involved.  the agency has gotten away from that. and has regulations in this regard. the senator from oklahoma was kind egh to say that this action was partially attributable. at least. to the fight i have made. the agency  has regulations to provide that this will  be done. and that there is required a commitment that there will be segregation when there is federal financing of the shell. madam president. the federal government is  to finance the air terminals any more. indeed. the bill we shall pass today expressly excludes that. in a sense. that is an academic matter. etheless. i think it is a great thing. i am delighted the agency took that position and changed the regulations. i give it all credit and ho for doing so. as i say. that is a problem longer germane to the existing situation. we move to the next situation. madam president. which is that the agency itself has asked the department of justice to institute suits to desegregate certain airports. those suits are pending in new orleans. la.. and in the city of montgomery. ala. one airport. when threatened with a suitat columbus. ga.-has already desegregated. perhaps we can get some understanding of why people like me are so exercised about this issue when we consider the situation at the new orleans airport terminal. do my colleagues k that the new orleans municipality agreed by contract it would  have a segregated airport. and etheless has one. the federal government is  starting a suit. think of the circumlocution. think of the injustice. the united states has to start a suit to desegregate the new orleans airport. withstanding the solemn promise and the written assurance of the new orleans airport that it would  be segregated. this is what we are up against. and this is why people like myself can sometimes get perhaps more passionate and exercised than one ought to be. even with respect to a legislative proposal. that is the second point. suits are being started in a number of cases. we come to point 3. the agency is taking precautions to see that land which may be used for airport projects is  used in a segregated way. and the agency is taking precautions to see. also. that in respect to particular structures which the faa will construct under this actlike weather stations and other stations- those structures will  be segregated. but there is something the faa is  doing. i shall read to the senate the precise words on that score. the faa is  using the power it has under the bill. because it has authority to help with respect to all kinds of runways and communications areas and weather stations. the agency is  planning to use its power to deny that kind of help to any airport which is segregated. let me repeat that. the agency is  planning to use the money and the authority given under the terms of the billto provide assistance for things other than terminals. or the appurtenances of terminals used as terminals. such as runways. safety elements. weather elementsto deny assistance to any airport on the ground that that airport is segregated. the reason which the agency gives is as follows. and i wish to read it. the letter is addressed to me: you have also asked whether this agency has made or will make grants under the federal airport act for buildings or portions of buildings which are constructed for safety purposes and which are attached to or a part of terminal facilities which are segregated. the answer is "yes." i repeat: the answer is "yes." in short. madam president. an airport operator or owner who will get that kind of help will  be required to make a commitment that the airport will  be segregated.
it is. i have given it credit. it is holding hearings. it will bring some criminal prosecutions. the senator from oklahoma [mr. monroney] has done for myself and my colleague a real favor that we appreciate. i am  berating the senator from oklahoma. he is as much a humanitarian as i am. i do  arrogate the virtues to myself. it is only when we fight very hard for these things. as we have begun to do with respect to the desegregation of airports. that something happens. the senator from illis referred to the glacial mountain of indifference. we see it even when the law is with us. as it is with respect to the airports. the southern railroad terminals must be desegregated. there is way out of it. there is a progressive move toward that end. i should like to see the same march of progress go into the airports as well. and  depend upon selective individual suits for each airport in an injunction case. which seems to be the presenit course. the law is clear with respect to the power of the federal government.
madam president. i have heard the senator from oklahoma with the deepest interest. i point out that what he has said is completely consistent with the case which i have made. certainly so far as concerns any structure which houses safety facilities or airport operational facilities to which the faa contributes. there will be discrimination or segregation. i am satisfied as to that point. that is  any part of what i charge. what i charge is that the money that is proposed to be used for that type of facility. which is important to any municipality--something which all municipalities want. as is clear from the votes in the senate on the substantive aspects of the billwill be extended to airports which are segregated. i point out that the agency has chosen the longest.  the shortest. way around in making requests to the attorney general to institute injunction suits. when by the mere cutting off of money we could bring about desegregation of all airports which are  segregated with practically exceptions. if such procedure is within the federal purviewand it is within the power and authority of the federal government. the agencies and the presidentthe power should be exercised in accordance with the constitution. and we should  give support to efforts to delay the day when millions of americans enjoy its full benefits. in the boynton case the terms of the law are precisely the same as those in the aviation act. in the boynton case the court made crystal clear that whoever operates segregated facilities. if they are a part of the general scheme of transportation which is involved. can be reached by the action of the courts and is subject to the provisions of these laws. so. madam president. i end as i began. with a plea to the president and to these agencies to take action to eliminate.  after years and through a great many suits. but right . or almost right . segregation in airports which get any federal help at all.
. the pattern of profit sharing in the auto industry is bound to extend itself to the steel industry and to other industries. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the recoad an article entitled "profitsharing spread to steel thought likely." published in the washington post of september 3. 1961.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill brought to my attention by the association of the bar of the city of new york. to remedy a chaotic situation in the aircraft industry which exists because of conflicting state law as to the validity of conveyances of aircraft and related equipment. the bill does  change the substantive law of the various states but simply amends the federal aviation act of 1958 so that there is a uniform rule as to which states law applies to a given conveyance. lease. or other transfer of title or interests in such equipment. at least three rules are  in use. and the uncertainty which this creates in an industry where equipment is constantly in rapid movement across state lines is obvious. the bill would create a uniform rule that the substantive law of the state in which the relevant instrument is delivered is applicable. comparable provisions already exist in relation to ships and motor vehicles. and i urge that prompt action be taken  to solve this problem in regard to aircraft. i ask unanimous consent that a memorandum explaining the bill in greater detail be included in my remarks.
madam president. last week i protested the action of the defense department in cutting back the current production of the f105. an allweather fighter bomber produced by the republic aviation corp. on long islandan action that will result in the immediate layoff of 1.500 persons and by 1963 may result in a total layoff of 13.000 people. yesterday. the president commented on this serious problem at his news conference. i ask unanimous consent to have the question and answer printed at this point in the record.
. one of the major problems of the sixties is mass transportation in our urban areas. the tristate transportation committee. the organization set up last year by the govers of the states of connecticut. new jersey. and new york. has submitted its second interim report to the govers of these three states. this report. i believe. will be of deep interest to senators from other states facing similar transportation problems. and i therefore ask unanimous consent to have excerpts from the report printed in the record. i would like to call particular attention to the five pilot projects outlined by the committee. each represents a method of attacking the problem of efficient. lowcost mass transit. the committee is currently exploring these projects with the hhfa to determine whether they will qualify for federal aid under the new program established last year by the amendment which senator williams of new jersey sponsored and i cosponsored to the housing act. these demonstration projects are only a beginning. we must move forward promptly here in the congress to provide funds for the next stepcomprehensive mass transit projects for our cities. senator williams of new jersey and senator case of new jersey have both introduced bills to provide federal matching funds for mass transit projects and i have joined in sponsoring this legislation. and will do all i can to get it acted upon this year in view of the urgency of the problem and the genuine and constructive effort being made by cities like metropolitan new york. working with their state governments.
. i send to the desk. for printing under the rule. an amendment on behalf of myself and other senators. properly called the "freedom of travel" amendment to the pending bill. the foreign assistance act of 1961. to reaffirm our opposition to arab discrimination against united states citizens who do business in or travel in the near east. i submit the amendment on behalf of myself and senators bush. clark. doug-
our purpose in offering the amendment is twofold. first. it would make more money immediately available where there is the need. as my colleagues have demonstrated. the second purpose is to demonstrate a body of opinion in the senate with respect to this subject. otherwise. the change of date from july 1 to october 1. insofar as its presence in conference was concerned. would  have represented in any sense the response to the point of view which we express. it would have been just something the committee did. because it was. as the senator has said. trying to trim its ship according to the situation. we thought it essential that the deep feeling on our part. with respect to the urgent need as of july 1. that the committee was right the first time be strongly manifested. and the only way we could do so was to show our conviction on that score in the way we have acted today.
subsequently said: . i wish to identify myself with the objective being sought by dr. martin luther king in his protest acceptance of a jail sentence instead of paying a fine for an alleged violation of a street and sidewalk assembly ordinance in leading a street demonstration without a permit in albany. ga. the distinguished senior senator from pennsylvania spoke on this subject just a few minutes ago. i was to have coordinated my remarks on this subject with his. but i was engaged in a conference and could  be here. as a lawyer. i express opinion as to whether dr. kings conviction is proper or . the courts will decide that. but as a senator. i say it is tragic in our country to have thus to call attention to a deprivation of civil and moral rights. as dr. king is doing. with the eminence and distinction he enjoys in his field. and in the leadership of the negro people. i predict that such an invocation of serious. drastic remedies in a situation of this kind will  result in subduing or repressing the demand for equal opportunity which is typified by the protest of dr. martin luther king. but will. if anything. accelerate it. i believe it is our duty to subscribe to and identify ourselves with the fact that the object sought is the right one. it is tragic that in our country attention has to be called to it by this means.
madam president. i shall take only a few minutes. i have been waiting all day. i shall speak briefly. i wish to call the attention of the senate to the provision in the committee report which indicates that the dc3 is  obsolescent and is being phased out and the door is being opened to the consideration of other types of aircraft. that is particularly gratifying to us in new york because we produce. through the grumman aircraft corp.. a plane called the gulfstream. with turbojet engines. in which we have great faith. and which. if utilized in the phasing out of the dc3. will go some distance toward righting the imbalance between new york and california in terms of aircraft production and defense contracts. we are very much gratified to see the door ooened to the test of competition. $10.000.000 700.000 71.900.000 463.400.000 120.000.000 14.355.000 9.946.500 10. 720. 00w 175.000.000 155.325. 000 16.500.000 40.000.000 10.000.000 14.500. 0 2. 877.878.000 766. 237.00)o 310.000.000 37.085.000 28.000.000 75. 500.000 $93.800.000 850.000 83.078. 000 488. 400.000 130.000.000 14.617.000 11.100. 0) 11.845.000 187. 400. 000 181.779.000 29.6354.000 41.000. 000 17. 000. 000 14.500.000 2.017.878.000 786. 237.000 335.000.000 37.585.000 33.000.000 78.500.000 increase amount $93.800.000 152.000 4.828.000 54.100.000 10.000.000 2.092.000 2.307.000 1.500.000 12.280.000 (4.107.500) 4.354. 000 34. 6. 500 3. 500. 000 1.450.000 1.615.378.000 470.237.000 71.750.000 500.000 3.500.000 2.500.000 -------------- --- - 5.495.923. 000 2.384. 567.000 --------------. -.-------------- 288. 876. 500 ................ percent 1.7 under which this airplane can show its quality in terms of modern advance in aviation. so that our countrys progress in that field. so greatly signalized by the great jet aircraft which are flying over all the oceans of the world. may be also made evident in our domestic air service. with respect to aher part of the bill which interests me greatly. i call attention of the senate to what can be done if we set our minds to it in the vexing problems which cause such tension in the field of segregation and discrimination. i sought to bring about a solution of this problem in respect of airports. it will be remembered that for 2 successive years i sought to amend the bill in order to prevent any federally financed airport which was providing separate facilities for negroes and whites from receiding any money under the grantsinaid for the airports. the pending bill carries an item of $75 million in such grantsinaid. among them grants to a number of southern states. the tabulation of which is to be found on page 480. i am happy to report that a little showing of mettle. cooperation. and fight on the part of aviation agencies of the federal government. on the part of the distinguished senator from washington. myself. and others. has had some excellent results. i think the senate has a right to take satisfaction when. in this very trying field. something good happens. it is a sad experience to listen to debates such as the one which took place the other evening between the two senators from georgia and myself. a federal government survey of airports in 17 southern and border states showed that there were between 30 and 40 airports where there was segregation either in restaurants or restroom facilities. or in some other way. a concerted effort was made to change the rules and regulations of the federal aviation agency which dealt with the eligibility of airports for grantsinaid. also. the department of justice moved into the situation and started four suits in birmingham. montgomery. shreveport. and new orleans. in order to bring about desegregation of the airports. i am very much gratified to be able to inform the senate that very substantial good seems to have been done. i report to the senate the decision of the court in the case of united states against the city of montgomery. in which the district judge. by order. eliminated segregation in the montgomery airport. similar results were obtained in new orleans and birmingham. and appeals were taken from those injunctive orders. the shreveport. la.. airport suit is the only one still pending. and there. i believe. without question. the desired result will be obtained. though it has  yet been obtained. so far that is one airport which still resists the tide of events in constitutional law. the result in this very critical field has been extremely gratifying. our situation is exposed to every foreigner who comes to this country. it is a matter of pride on the part of the people of the united states that a measurable degree of progress has been made through the use of the federal machine of the faa. through agitation on the floor of the senate. where often. though amendments do  succeed. they have a very profound effect. and through key litigation instituted by the department of justice. that is what the pattern must be. we must never stop in our efforts until this blight on our country is exorcised in every area in which it occurs. including the situation which continues in albany. ga. the department of justice must be equipped with the necessary authority. the difference between this case and the albany. ga.. situation is that here. by statute. the attorney general has the power to sue. hence it is effective. whereas in the case of albany and other civil rights situations. other than in interstate transport or voting. he does  have the right to sue to correct the situation which is torturing the south and the country. the combination of demand and the representation of the interests of people by senators who i believe represent the preponderant view in this body. giving the attorney general the right to sue. and obtaining the cooperation of the federal agencies of government which are concerned. is going to obtain results. which i think in this case are excellent and do credit to congress. the federal government. and our nation and enable us to hold our heads a little higher. i &m delighted to report this to the senate so i am delighted to report these results and give credit where credit is due. i take great satisfaction in the results. and i think the nation will do likewise.
 what to do. and we would say that if he does  do it. that will be just too bad. but it will become the law. just the same. in my opinion. at the very least. in view of the action the senate took yesterday on the trade expansion act of 1962. the senate should make the two patterns consistent. instead of taking the attitude that our country can do whatever it wishes with the bicycle industry. that one else will pay any attention to such action by our country. and that we will get by with it. we would  get by with it. and there would be retaliation which would be both embarrassing and costly. i come  to the last point. the tradition and history of efforts exactly like this one is that they do  work in the interest of the domestic manufacturer. they may work for a little while. but within a very short time the american manufacturer who is  "hep" to the effect of foreign competition softens up and goes along. on the theory that he will be bailed out. the- foreign manufacturer finds methods to make up the 10 or 11 percent. whether it is out of his profits. by way of some gimmicks he introduces on his bicycles. by sales appeal. or by whatever other efforts he may make. the domestic manufacturer then finds himself where he started. that has been the history of this kind of operation. we passed the trade expansion act of 1962 so we could put into being a better and more effective policy. as an indication that we are living in the world and are longer insulated in the united states. as i said at the beginning. it would be very easy for me to agree with my colleagues on this bill. which has been reported to the senate by my best friends. senators for whom i have the greatest affection. and for whom i would stretch  one. but many. points if i could humanly do it. but. since i am devoted to the trade policy of our nation. and have made it almost my complete study and concern in the 14 years of my service in the congress. i can do it. i k full well that other bills of this kind have come along. but it strikes me strongly on the day after the trade expansion act of 1962 was passed. that we should be entertaining a measure of this character. i felt it my duty. in all conscience. to bring out the point and to submit the amendment. as an accommodation to me. the senator in charge of the bill. the senator from oklahoma . my own leader. the senator from illis [mr. dxakfs]. who is very much interested in the bill. and the majority leader agreed to postpone consideration of the bill until today. i told them expressly that i would appreciate its being carried over until after the trade expansion act was passed. and  before. my reason for the juxtaposition is sharply evident. i was  taking any advantage of them. because we all knew that the trade expansion act of 1962 would become law. i thought. in all fairness. that we ought to consider a bill of this character after action upon that historic and dynamic and new departure in the trade policy of the united states
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill brought to my attention during the 87th congress by the association of the bar of the city of new york. to remedy a chaotic situation in the aircraft industry which exists because of conflicting state law as to .the validity of conveyances of aircraft and related equipment. introduced last session as s. 2773. the bill was reported favorably after hearings by the committee on commerce. and was passed unanimously by the senate. unfortunately. there was  sufficient time remaining in the session to obtain house action. the bill is substantially identical to the bill introduced in the 87th congress. it does  change the substantive law of the various states but simply amends the federal aviation act of 1958 so that there is a uniform rule as to which states law applies to a given conveyance. lease. or other transfer of title or interest in such equipment. this would alleviate the present uncertainty which arises because at least three different rules are  in use. comparable provisions already exist in relation to ships and motor vehicles. where equipmentis constantly in rapid movement across state lines. i ask unanimous consent that a memorandum explaining the bill in greater detail be included in my remarks at this point.
. i present this amendment only because there seems to be in some quarters some question as to what is meant by the language at the top of page 6 of the revised bill as submitted by the commerce committee. which this amendment would affect. the word "its" in line 2 of page 6. refers to the public mass transportation company or any division or segment thereof which is operating profitably. this is the general theory that i am seeking to reach. i have specifically in mind the port authority of new york. which is operating in many areas. and the triborough bridge and tunnel authority in new york. which is also operating in many ways. for instance. the port authority operates parking garages. bridges. tunnels. airports. and may very well take under its wing a trade center. as well as a transportation system. to wit. the particular system we call the hudson tubes. the hudson & manhattan railway. the triborough bridge and tunnel authority operates bridges. as well as a coliseum which is a great show place for trade shows. as well as an office building. as i understand the intent of this section. and i have discussed this matter with the aides of the senator from nevada . it is to prevent a public body which operates in the mass public transportation field from starving one of its entities which may seek aid from the government. while at the same time it is making money from its other entities. the reason why i have submitted the amendment is to sharpen the discussion on the question. i understand what i have in mind and what the senators in charge of the bill have in mind. and i do  think the amendment is needed. but. in order to highlight this point. i thought it was necessary to have this discussion in order to understand what was intended. as i understand the situation. it comes down to this: where a public body operates many facilities. and some of them make money. and there is a transportation system that it wishes to get qualified under this bill. which company is  making money. that company is  automatically disqualified from coming in under the bill. but the administrator. under the bill. has a perfect right to give them money for the elements they do operate which he thinks properly belong in a mass public transportation system. in short. i want to be sure such a public body is  ipso facto. as we lawyers say. by some strained construction of the language. excluded from the provisions of the bill because some elements of its operations make money. as i understand the intent. the administrator could say to the port authority of new york. "i do  care whether the hudson and manhattan does or does  make money. a public mass transportation system which would command my -interest so that i would give you money under this bill has got to include other things. such as a. b. and c." i would  want. on the face of the bill itself. to bar that public authority from coming under the bill because it happened. to have some operations. which might be completely unrelated to a mass public transportation system. which made money.
the commissions present recommendation goes beyond this background only insofar as it recommends withholding of federal funds for all purposes in mississippi until the state demonstrates its compliance with the constitution and laws of the united states. i see legal difficulty with this application of the principle: since the entire governmental machinery of the state seemingly is arrayed against enforcement of constitutional rights. even the gover and lieutenant gover of the state are currently under charge of defiance of orders of the courts of the united states. yet. as the commission finds in this report. massive federal assistance to the ecoy of mississippi has continued: $270 million for fiscal year 1962 was collected from the state in taxes. but the federal government has poured in more than $650 million in grantinaid programs. construction contracts. military contracts. and direct civilian and military payrolls. the commission es that an additional $400 million moon rocket engine test center is being planned for the state. and i am particularly appalled that. among all the other appalling statistics spelled out by the commission. the problem of airport segregation. which was thought to have been solved as a result of my repeated assaults in the senate upon appropriation bills including airport funds. has reappeared in connection with a jet airport being built at jackson. miss.. with $2.180.000 of federal money. as recently as last august 31. when the independent offices appropriation bill for fiscal 1963. including airport construction funds for the federal aviation agency. was before the senate. i reported with satisfaction that substantial progress had been made. that the faa had changed its regulations. that the justice department had been successful in several suits. and that the problem remained only in one case in which the suit was still pending.  the u.s. civil rights commission itself reveals that the faa has failed to adhere to the change which i had been led to believe had been made in its policy. and has failed to question the jackson airports plan for segregated eating and restroom facilities. an airport financed with federal funds is going to be segregated. such action is absolutely intolerable in our country. unless the senator wishes to continue to speak. i have aher observation to make on that point.
. the whole country must look with considerable sadness upon a tragedy which has just occurred. which saddened me very deeply. and which should sadden us all. a young man. 35 years old. william l. moore. a native of binghamton. n.y.. was found sprawled on a desolate stretch of u.s. 11 in alabama in front of a roadside park. he had been shot once in the forehead and once in the neck and was dead when he was found. he was walking to jackson. miss.. to deliver to gov. ross barnett a personal letter on civil rights. he was wearing placards which indicated his very strong desire for equal opportunity. especially as respects race and color. he was a post office employee born in binghamton. n.y. as it happens. he had written me about some matters with respect to the post office. and told me about the walk he intended to take. i had written him and told him i would be glad to see him any time he wanted to come to washington. and wishing him good luck on his walk. he was a wellintentioned american who felt he was making a big contribution to a public cause in this way. perhaps one could credit this sad and tragic occurrence to any one of a number of reasons. but it is an interesting fact that the coroner of etowah county. where the slaying occurred. termed it a "civil rights case." that is  from a prejudiced source. it seems to me it was. as we lawyers say. part of the res gestae. a statement that was made shortly after the occurrence took place. when people generally say what is on their minds. gov. george wallace. of alabama. has offered a reward for information leading to the conviction of those who committed the terrible crime. i am grateful for that fact. apparently mr. moore made secret of his mission as he went on his way. and a number of news gatherers knew of his mission. which was to hand gov. ross barnett. of mississippi. a personal letter urging him to accord negroes their rights. the letter is set forth in news articles. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington daily news and one from the washington evening star of today be printed at this point in the record.
madam president. the reply of the department of commerce deals primarily with the area redevelopment administration program. which is a very considerable one. and with the federalaidtohighways program. of course. since the original documents are printed in the record. my comments must be read in the light of those documents. as regards the administration of the area redevelopment program. insofar as community facilities are concerned. it appears that there is an effort to enforce discrimination. but when it comes to the employment practices of occupants of arafinanced commercial and industrial facilities. the report states: we have  required as a condition for commercial or industrial loans under section 6 of the area redevelopment act that a borrower execute covenants with respect to its employment practices. the congress. in authorizing our loan program for commercial and industrial projects. did  indicate its intent with regard to employment practices of private borrowers. so here is a specific case in which it is claimed that legislation is required. although as regards community facilities. it is claimed that legislation is  required. as regards the road program. the statement in the report is as follows: while there are specific enforcement instructions with respect to the discrimination clause in federalaid highway contracts let by the states. a breach of this clause. as well as various other required contract provisions. may be grounds for termination of the contract. the report then states that a discrimination survey is currently being made by the bureau of public roads. at the request of the u.s. civil rights commission. and that a report will be submitted. so that question still remains in the pending category. also. as regards commercial facilities providing public accommodations. such as restaurants and motels. the department states that they are  permitted to be located within the public rightofway of any interstate project financed in part with federalaid highway funds. the department also states: the federalaid highway legislation contains provision relating to discrimination in the use of privately owned facilities as may be provided for public accommodations along. but outside of such highway rightsofway. legislation would be necessary before any action could be undertaken by us. that is a clear indication that in connection with the federalaid highway program. as is true in connection with at least a part of the federal area redevelopment program. legislation is considered needed. whereas. with respect to the other parts. legislation is considered needed and the department can proceed . according to its own view. madam president. before i proceed further. i e that my colleague and partner in this effort. the senator from michigan . is present in the chamber. i would be perfectly willing to suspend and let him carry on in any way he sees fit
there is question about it. the senator ks as well as i that there is substitute. there is one to step into the breach. the most uninformed person reading the newspapers will be the best witness of the fact that britain can. france both can and will . considering the strictly nationalistic policies it is pursuing. which in my opinion are hampering the world. as much as i love general de gaulle and the great thingshe has done. he is  a big stone on the road of progress. west germany is out of the question. germany has been the worlds principal enemy for a long time. and is just  returning to the international community of nations. the same statement applies to japan. where is one to look. our country is the only one that gives any hope for leadership for peace. we are the principal beneficiaries of this leadership in terms of the maintenance of the worlds peace and the worlds freedom. so there is alternative. to all those who say. "let us get rid of this burden." i put the question. "to whom." if we ca get rid of it to any: body and we throw it overboard. are we  depriving ourselves. is that  a suicide mania. i think that is the thrust of the senators question. and i thoroughly agree with him.
 of the aflcio. if this is  done in the ways i have described. by the congress or by the leadership. i shall hope to join with the distinguished senator from oregon in introducing such a joifit resolution before the end of the day. i hope very much it will  be necessary. or. if it is necessary. i hope they will do it. but i hope that it will  be necessary. by virtue of agreement by the railroad managements. i repeat that i hope. first of all. that the railroads will agree. and. second. that if they do  agree. that the leadership will take the suggested action. but i suggest that certainly congress should have an opportunity to express itself.
s message. withstanding the introduction of the joint resolution. and withstanding the reference of the joint resolution to committee. we face a railroad strike next monday at midnight. we shall have to do something about it. unless we are taken off that difficult situation by action by the railroads themselves. i say. with all humilitythough i think it is a pretty general opinionthat we should  be driven to act by monday night.
i wish to make an observation and then an anncement. i join with my colleagues. the majority leader and the miity leader. in congratulating the railroads upon having heard the voice of the congress and. i believe. the voice of -the country. also i wish to congratulate  wishes to use as to the work rules themselves. but there may be something that can be done intra the unions. for example. a settlement in the airline industry was arrived at because of a unification of the flight engineers union and the pilots union.
before the senator came to the chamber there was a discussion on this subject. it brought out fully what the senator has said. i congratulate him on his eloquent and forceful statement. there is one further thing that the unions can do. they can work out some internal problems. for example. the two airline unions combined to settle a grave problem in the airlines industries. as we remember. it may be necessary for the locomotive engineers to combine with the firemen in order to form a practical base for what will happen when some kind of new work rules go into effect in the railroad industry. all of that is within the control of labor. i again congratulate the senator on his wise words. his credentials as far as labor is concerned are unparalleled. i urge the unions and management to proceed as he has suggested. management has made a pretty good record. one must say in all frankness. the unions must be careful  to be left behind in terms of public contemplation of them in what is happening  and what is bound to happen in the future. in which they all want to be given recognition by the american people.
. on this amendment we in new york face a very important problem with respect to the barge canal. my colleague. the senator from new york and i have joined in the effort to see what can be done properly about the problem. i have arrived at an agreement with the senator from michigan who very graciously has consented to follow what i think is the proper course in this regard. with respect to this agreement. i should like. therefore. to spread my views very briefly upon the record. following which i propose to withdraw the amendment. based upon an understanding arrived at with the senator from michigan . the amendment contains the text of a bill which has been introduced by my colleague and myself as s. 3072. in the 87th congress. with respect to this same project. the great lakeshudson river waterway. and was last thursday reintroduced as s. 1938. the problem relates to the need for improving the barge canal in the state of new york. which connects the hudson river with lake ontario. it is an extremely important artery. so far as we are concerned. for commerce and industry in our state. and a great deal of work -has been done in past years in improving it. last year the congress amended the 1935 authorization act for the whole great lakeshudson river project by authorizing an increase of $1 million in the monetary ceiling for the deepening of the barge canal. from $27 million to $28 million. approximately $25 million has already been spent by the federal government. leaving $3 million unspent. the new york port authority tells us that it needs an additional $6.8 million in authorization. based on the fact that the state of new york has appropriated $15 million. and intends to spend this amount and to be reimbursed by the federal government out of the additional $6.8 million which is requested for authorization. both in this amendment and in the bill to which i have referred. which. together with my colleague . i have introduced. i have been advised that the corps of engineers believes that although an additional $61/ million is needed to complete the barge canal project. there is present need for the increased authorization. because. it is said. new york has  established sufficiently that it intends to spend the unspent $3 million or any additional funds in the near future. and. second. that further project expenditures should await completion of a corps of engineers feasibility study. i am told that the date for the completion of the feasibility study might be considerably accelerated. and that if that could be done. the congress would be possessed of the findings of the corps of engineers. which we have great confidence will substantiate the position of the new york port authority. which maintains that these improvements must be pushed in the ecoic interests of the state of new york and the whole nation. we believe that the congress. being apprised of this information. would reach the same conclusion.
. in concluding. let me state that i have intention of exaggerating what this treaty will do. i am trying to emphasize the positive in what has become. in my opinion. very much a debate in the negative. of course. the treaty will  mean that we can  proceed to a solution of the problems of the berlin wall. of cuba. laos. vietnam or korea. or that it will affect the communist chinese threat to invade india or relieve the pressure on the nationalist chinese on formosa. or that it will free the captive nations of europe. or. conversely. "sell them down the river." or that it will serve as a panacea for the evils and tensions of the cold war. but so much has been made of the comparative unimportance of the treatyeven its supporters claim more for it than the "first small step." the "tiny ray of light." and so forththat it is necessary to remind ourselves of the potential of even a small beginning. those who oppose this ratification do  believe that there is any reason for hope at all. and history may prove them right in this instance. but should we destroy this hope without allowing it a fair trial. can we deny the right of mankind to hope that given even reasonable mutual selfinterest. this treaty may lead to better things. did our forefathers receive guarantees that it was safe and profitable to colonize america. hey hoped. were our founding fathers complacently positive that they could successfully win independence from great britain. hey hoped. was lincoln sure he could save the union. e hoped. these were neither dreamers.  sentimentalists.  were they rash. and they backed their hopes with their lives and treasure. as we appraise and test this treaty and examine it with the scrupulousness required of us by its historic importance and by our responsibility to the people. let us  forget the obligation which rests upon us. just as i would  for one moment challenge the sincerity of the opponents to the treaty or fail to recognize the courage of their decision. so i would  have challenged the integrity and patriotism of the proponents and the courage of their decision. let us remember that the hopes of all mankind rest upon us in a particularly concentrated and dramatic way in respect to this treaty. and therefore. we carry an awesome responsibility. senators who vote for the treaty should  forget that we carry the awesome responsibility that it may go wrong and may hurt us. that is possible. it is a big responsibility which we carry. it is  only the opponents who carry the big responsibility. we carry it. too. i believe if we rejected this treaty it would be a signal to all mankind that the road leads only sooner or later to an atomic armageddon. while if we can in conscience and patriotism approve the treaty. we extend to all mankind the hope that at long last in the tragic history of earth. littered with so much death and destruction. we begin to see even in its barest outlines. the new road of the rule of law instead of the rule of force and of the capability of men to master the means for their own destruction. as for myself. i am deeply grateful that i can accept this alternative and that from all indications the senate. by the needed twothirds majority can do so too. and bring the promise of a better day. foretold by all our great religions. and all our prophets before useven one little bit closer.
the case of brown against board of education dealt with desegregation in public schools. the supreme court has handed down a whole line of decisions in respect to any public activity or activity which is publicly affected. ranging from a lunch counter in a cityowned parking garage to a railroad terminal restaurant to a municipal swimming pool to a public beach. therefore one can pin this entirely on brown against board of education. but rather on a whole pattern of federal decisions.
. i wish to say a word about what could become a great projectthe possibility of construction of a new interstate bridge linking the eastern end of long island with connecticut and rhode island. recently there has been considerable interest in long island. n.y.. particularly in suffolk county. in the construction of a new interstate bridge extending from orient point. long island. to groton point. conn.. and nepatree point. r.i. there has also been some discussion of such a project in rhode island. at this time my staff is exploring the possibilities of initial federal action with the staff of my colleague [senator keating] and of the senators from rhode island and connecticut. the future possibilities of such an interstate bridge system may be awesome. one suffolk county official predicted that the first blow of a sledge hammer to start construction on the bridge span would signal "the dawn of a whole new industry" in the county. construction of such a bridge would  only alleviate tremendous new york traffic problems but also would create new jobs in the building" industries of the states concerned and new positions in all types of commercial enterprises in the areas. the creation of new construction jobs for long island would do much for long islands ecoic situation. yesterday. my colleague and i requested the federal highway administrator of the bureau of public roads to undertake whatever studies may be necessary. and to advise us whether the bureau of public roads of the department of commerce would be prepared to conduct a feasibility study on the proposed bridge construction. i am hopeful that such a feasibility study may be conducted and look forward to constructive efforts by all the states involved in behalf of meaningful work on a bridge linking suffolk county with new england. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record an article appearing in newsday. october 10. 1963. on this proposed interstate bridge project. connecting new york. connecticut. and rhode island. and also an article appearing in the new york times today on action taken by the suffolk county board of supervisors in connection with this proposed bridge.
. i thank the senator from wisconsin for his courtesy. and i hasten to assure him that i shall  devastate his position. all of us respect him highly. however. i believe some local facts should be pointed out. the senator from california. the senator from oklahoma. and other senators have set forth the basis for this operation in connection with the aircraft industry. this operation probably makes the greatest single contribution that is made in connection with air transportation in metropolitan areas and in connection with solving the existing problems in those areas incident to automobile travel and traffic. i associate myself with the remarks of those senators. in addition. i point out this operation is  making a profit. this is a very important point. from the remarks of the senator from wisconsin. one might conclude. "if they want to run helicopters. let them pay for the operation." but i point out that the united states would be the one to pay for it. both as regards the purchase of the helicopters. their maintenance. and the conducting of the experiments. that would be the result if in the futureas a result of the adoption and enactment of this amendment. if that were to happenthis operation were to be drastically curtailed.
 kennedy during the railroad strike emergency. some hearings have been held on this subject. and it has been very strongly supported in those hearings. i believe that the senators entering into the situation will be of material help in enabling us to have a bill reported to the senate. i most respectfully suggest to the senator that. after studying the bills which are  the subject of hearings. if he thinks it advisable. hearings could be arranged by our subcommittee. over which the senator from pennsylvania presides. and that then his initiative might very well be the final step in actually getting a bill through the subcommittee and the full committee and reported to the senate. as is so often true. in entering this field. the senator from minnesota has again sensed the imminency and importance of one of the most critical issues before our people. i welcome his participation. i believe that his intercession can easily prove to be the final spark in bringing legislation to the floor of the senate.
the senator from wisconsin has referred to the competitiveness in other areas. especially in connection with the truck transportation industry. and similar ones. can he qualify the amendment as being an effort to equalize the competition. in other words. if the passthrough is prohibited. competition is equalized for all truck transporters and the others in that area. where there is a heavy competitive factor.
i thank the senator from massachusetts. i am always pleased to find myself in agreement with him. i have great respect for him. his statement bears particularly on my statement which the senator may have heard. that 2 weeks ago we placed our feet on a certain road. which is the road of discussing the bill on the floor of the senate. there is real reason why we should change that direction. that is just as much in accord with the rules of the senate as the course which the senator from oregon wishes us to follow. i wish to sum up the reasons for which i oppose the motion of the senator from oregon. i oppose the motion: first. because we. like him. are following the rules of the senate. i see greater force or greater tradition in following rule xiv than in following rule xxii. or any other rule of the senate. we are following rule xiv. second. i believe that reference of the bill to the committee would  strengthen our hand. as the senator from oregon argues. but would weaken our hand. it will be worse for civil rights if word goes out to the country that. after 15 days of discussion on the floor of the senate. we are sending the bill back to committee. to be faced again with the question of bringing it before the senate. finally. because the questions which are raised with respect to the proposed legislation will either be settled on the floor of the senate. as many were in the house. by amendment on the floor. or by substantial acceptance of the bill. furthermore. very little could be done about the bill even if it were sent to committee. as evidenced by the 1960 action of the judiciary committee. when hing was reported to the senate except the bill. with some changes. i do  believe that it is in the national interest or the wisdom of the country to send the bill to committee. the bill is before the senate. the senate should stay with it. we should see it through. the senate will vote cloture. if it must. to bring it to a conclusion. because the national interest urgently requires it.
i have listened with close attention to the remarks of the senator from montana. if he means essentially the policy which he has laid out for our governmentand without relying upon general de gaulles activities but at the same time being willing to recognize and accept him as an ally as long as he performs a useful function as outlined in these ideas and the editorial and the articlei join the senator from montana in approving this policy as a political objective for the united states. heretofore. i have in a most friendly way differed with the senator from montana on ideas to neutralize this area. and also with respect to the situation in berlin. but i believe the senator from montana  has put his finger upon a consistent outline of policy. it is most useful that he is the majority leader. i believe the criticism that has been made. namely. that our forces are in south vietnam at so much danger and cost. but without an objectiveis answered by this kind of coordinated policy. and i hope very much the distinguished senator will make clear to the country that this is a consistent line of policy. and is  for a repetition of any previous situation. that we are  fighting blindly. but that we are working to preserve the essential conditions under which this area may have a chance. the situation is very difficult. and we are all brokenhearted at the losses. but what we are doing is the constructive road to peace. and it must be accepted. i believe the senator from montana has sounded exactly the right e on americas political objectives. i consider it an ho to join him in subscribing to that view.
. the news that the rules committee of the other body has. after more than a year. finally sent the senatepassed mass transit bill to the house floor is good news indeed for the beleaguered commuters in our major cities. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point in my remarks an editorial which appeared in the new york herald tribune on may 23.
as i stated when i began. the report of the mississippi advisory committee shows that the report. which is the last report we have had from there. is dated january 1963. the date of the southern regional council report covers from april 1963 through december 1963. the developments to which i referred are the most recent that are available in this consolidated form. the sysis extends from april 24. 1963. beginning with the killing of william moore. a baltimore postman. on a public road in alabama. through to a report of arrests of demonstrators in danville. va.. on december 10. 1963. this is current information. we could. of course. cull the newspaper reports of the first few months of this year. but these are the last consolidated records we have. and i believe they bring the situation reasonably up to date.
the senator is correct. if his e was clean. to use a curbstone phrase. in terms of employment practices on the road job. that is as far as we could go. (at this point. mr. burdick took the chair as presiding officer.)
. i shall  take very long. i think we can dispose of what i have in mind very briefly. but i would invite the attention of senators to the fact that after the "road marches" we have made today upon the subject. we still have  dealt with the problem in a affirmative way. we have dealt with it solely in a negative way. we have  required that. as to youth camps. the gover of a state may have 30 days veto power. we have provided that where a contract is assumed with a private. profit agency in any state. ifand i direct the attention of members of the senate to thisif it is  done in connection with a public agency. it must be submitted to the gover for 30 days. what we have omitted to do so far. unless we do it . is to provide that the director of the program may make contracts with states to take over the administration under any title. if he wishes to. in my judgment. the senate would have been much better advised to have gone down that road rather than give the gover veto power. the senate would have done much better if it had traveled the road of giving the director authority or direction to make agreements with states to take over the administration. the senate has  done that. that is a decision the senate has made. probably there is point in rearguing it. although i hazard the guess that when the measure comes out of conference. that is what will be done. because the other provisions which have been adopted are more onerous and difficult than the provisions i have suggested. i should like to have the attention of the manager of the bill. because i think in the legislative history we can make it very clear that the bill will allowprovided we make it do sothe director of the program to make contracts with individual states of a generic character to take over. if he wishes. the administration of individual titles of the bill. i should like to ask the senator from michigan. who is in charge of the bill. inder section 107. as it applies to youth camps. under section 112. as it applies to work training programs. under section 209(a). as amended. as it applies to community action programs. under section 213(a) and section 214 as they apply to adult education programs. and under section 311. as it applies to migratory labor programs. whether it is his judgment that under these sections the director of the program could. if he wished. enter into agreements with individual states. under which the states under such agreements and terms. could administer the totality of the particular parts to which those sections referred.
the senator well ks that many tourist passengers travel by helicopter. because they do  wish to spend 3 hours of their time driving through automobile traffic. it costs them only $9. and the increase in price to $12 would  be great. i hope that the senator does  mean that the travel on airlines in this country is  confined to the affluent. if that be true. the airlines would soon be bankrupt. he ks that. from sitting next to passengers who travel just as he does. he ks that they are  all affluent.
. on january 31. 1964. the federal aviation agency annced that it intended to consolidate 42 flight service stations throughout this country in the interest of ecoy. three of the flight service stations to be closed are located in elmira. poughkeepsie. and utica. n.y. the faas proposed action. consequently. has been a matter of vital importance and concern both to the communities affected and to new york state as a whole. the problem of the consolidation of the flight service stations has been the subject of careful study by the subcommittee on transportation and aeronautics of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. which held hearings on this subject on may 12. 1964. the report of the subcommittee is expected to be filed in the near future. the subject was also considered on the floor of the house on may 21. 1964. during debate on the independent offices appropriations bill. at that time. the house adopted an amendment to continue operations of certain flight service stations until the end of the fiscal year. regrettably. the senate appropriations committee did  include this amendment in the bill which it reported july 30. 1964. however. there are assurances which the administrator of the federal aviation agency gave in his letter to me of january 31. 1964. that the program of consolidation would be carried out during the next 12 to 24 months. therefore.  until. at the earliest. next february. the administrator testified before the independent offices appropriations subcommittee. at page 1475 of the record of hearings that the faa had abandoned the scheme to close down the flight service stations. although it might reduce 24hour service of the stations to somewhere between 8- and 16hour service. moreover. in a letter from the federal aviation agency to representative robert dole. dated march 24. 1964. printed in the record of debate by the house on this appropriation bill. assistant faa administrator william j. schulte stated that: i want to reconfirm the fact that the consolidation is  planned to take place for 12 to 24 months. it is also clear from the record of the house debate that the chairman of the appropriations subcommittee understood that consolidation would take place for at least 12 months. based on this record. it seems quite clear that the faa will  close any of the flight service stations until very careful consideration has been given to all alternatives consistent with full flight safety at the individual airports. the faa has estimated that the consolidation of the 42 flight service stations would bring about substantial savings. they have estimated that the savings in consolidating the elmira. poughkeepsie. and utica. n.y.. flight service stations would amount to $171.000. i should like to make clear that i have always supported and will continue to support efforts by federal agencies to achieve meaningful savings of federal funds. the prudent and ecoical use of our governments funds is an objective worthy of our best efforts. i do believe. however. that the federal agency which proposes ecoy measures must bear the burden of proof that true and meaningful savings will be accomplished without loss of necessary and vital services to our citizens. the senator from new york and i have asked the comptroller general of the united states to prepare an analysis of the savings to be obtained by the consolidation of flight service stations in new york state. this report is presently being worked on. in view of the representation of the federal aviation agency that a careful study of consolidation plans will be made before any action is taken. i am hopeful that the appropriations committee will give careful continued consideration to the actions of the faa with respect to consolidation of these stations. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the most recent status report prepared by the federal aviation agency on the flight service stations program.
. for in such situations the entire country ks the line of policy being followed. even though the people may  k the details. it is on this basis that i support the policy  referred tonamely. the sending of transport planes to the congo and the beginning of giving help which is required there at once. i also support the effort to lay the policy we shall pursue in connection with that country. especially our objectives. before the american people and the congress. so that it may receive the universality of support which always gives our policy the greatest substance and the greatest chance of success.
. much has been said about the socalled "invasion" of mississippi by several hundred young people from the th who are dedicated to urging negroes to exercise their constitutional right to vote and educating them so that they can. in spite of the barriers and harassments set in their path. it has often been argued that civil rights difficulties in the students home cities should have their attention rather than those in other states. a recent letter to the new york times answers this point very effectively by pointing out that such movements across state lines have for a long time been very much a part of the american scene. and often involve far greater numbers of students from southern states into new york city. for example. than are involved in the mississippi project this summer. what is inherent in these movements is. of course. the very essence of a free society. the ability of citizens to travel freely throughout the united states for lawful purposes and to be protected from harassment and violence by the local authorities wherever they go. i ask unanimous consent that the letter to the editor of the times be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
 or such federal officer as the commission may designate. the bill is. in my judgment. inadequate in that in programs. other than the highway program. there is express requirement for participation by state governments. the gover. or his designee. from the participating state would serve on the regional commissioncommission action would require an affirmative vote of a majority of state members and would be subject to veto by a federal representative on the commission. this is a unique organization. which i believe is an intelligent one. although i am  too happy about the federal representatives veto. but under this bill the state government is consulted only in respect to the highway program roads. section 201(b) of the bill requires that before any state member participates in or votes on commission recommendations he shall obtain the recommendations of the state highway department of the state which he represents. there is express requirement in the bill. as it stands. that state governments be consulted with respect to other programs under the bill. with respect to the need of state supervision of applications for federal assistance under the bill. under secretary of commerce franklin roosevelt. jr.. who worked closely with the development of this program. testified at page 23 of the record of hearings of the committee on public works on s. 2782 that "each district will in turn submit its plans to the appalachian regional commission through the 12 state representatives on the commission. the recommendation would first be approved by the state representatives. and then be submitted to the commission as a whole to see that the plan fitted into the overall regional plan." there is. however. with the exception of the highway program. express requirement for evaluation of the program by state governments. i think it is most significant that gov. william w. scranton. of pennsylvania. testified on this billpages 172173. 175 of the record of hearingsin strong support of state certification to the appalachian regional commission of the applications by the development districts for federal financial aid. gover scranton testified at page 174 that. "we. therefore. strongly urge that congress restore to the states the power and duty to certify the development districts and their applications." i believe it is extremely important that the role of the states in this program be clearly defined with respect to its daily operation september. 25 and that the energies and resources of the states be used to the fullest. with state representatives as members of the commission. it is understood that the states would be ultimately aware that programs were being requested by local development districts within their borders and coordinated by the commission. however. i am concerned about the type of situation which the senate considered during debate on the socalled clean air act of 1963 in which counties would have been able to go directly to the federal government for financial assistance without first consulting with state governments. an amendment. which i introduced. was incorporated into the clean air act to the effect that federal funds could be distributed for project grants unless the department of health. education. and welfare consulted with the gover of the requesting state or the appropriate designated state officials. as i have stated. my able colleague from new york joins me in the amendment which has been proposed.
. one of the arguments made in the miity views of the committee report is that there is requirement that the appalachian development road program be either in lieu of the regular federal aid program. or in addition to it. there is specific information on that score. therefore. it is unclear whether all the states involved in the appalachian program are perfectly free to go ahead and participate in the regular federal aid highway program. too. it is stated that already a number of states lag in their utilization of the available federal highway funds. for example. it is stated on page 47 of the committee report that georgia. maryland. pennsylvania. tennessee. and west virginia are substantially below the national average in terms of obligating funds made available for the socalled abc program. six of the statesalabama. georgia. maryland. th carolina. pennsylvania. and west virginiaare behind the national average in terms of obligating interstate highway funds. can the senator give us some enlightenment as to why the 7030 program proceeds without relation to the other highway program.
one final question. as the senator ks. i am deeply interested in private enterprise development. i e that one of the charges of duplication with respect to the bill is that a good deal of the area involved is in the tva area. where a great job has been done in the way of stimulation by private enterprise as an element of the development. the bill is relatively silent on that point. one of the stated purposes as expressed in section 102(6). is to encourage private investment in industrial. commercial. and recreational projects. will the senator state that it will be one of the policies of the administration of the bill. in a deliberate way. by fundamental and detailed planning. and promotion. to attract private industry to really make a major drive to get private industry to move into the area. facilitated by the roads and other improvements proposed in the bill. federal participation should  provide a substitute for private enterprise but a stimulus to it.
. this has been a longstanding problem which we have faced in the state of new york because such a very large stretch of the new york throughway was built before the passage of the federal highway act of 1956. the bill i am introducing today would require the secretary of commerce. upon application of the gover of an interested state. to approve substitute mileage in the interstate highway system. equivalent to the number of miles of toll roads. bridges. and tunnels within such state which had been approved as a part of the interstate highway system prior to the effective date of this legislation. the congress has continually failed to apportion substitute miles for the parts of the interstate system constructed by the states without federal participation and subsequently incorporated in the interstate highway system. this measure is intended to rectify the injustice imposed upon states that initiated construction of major interstate highway projects and spent their own funds for such projects. the highway act of 1956 authorizes construction of 41.000 miles of unified interstate. modern highways for the entire nation. the federal share of the costs for this 41.000 miles was set at 90 percent of the cost of tollfree roads. with the state contributing 10 percent. the 41.000 miles of highway to be built were selected on the basis of an interstate highway map adopted in 1947. at that time. new york state. as well as other states. decided the most intelligent and forwardlooking approach to the everincreasing demands for improved highspeed highway travel required that it proceed with the construction of the throughway system and  wait for the appropriation of federal funds. by june 30. 1957. new york state had completed almost 500 miles of expressway construction. which constituted more than 40 percent of the states 1.227mile interstate highway allocation. moreover.  only did the federal government fail to provide significant financial assistance for the construction of the new york thruway. but also mileage allocated to the thruway was deducted from the states total allocation of mileage in the interstate highway system. because of this inequitable situation the very important route 17. or southern tier expressway. extending from lake erie to "binghamton. has  been included by the secretary of commerce in the interstate system and the construction so far carried out on the southern tier expressway has  been reimbursed on a 90to10percent basis as permitted under the federal interstate highway system. it certainly does  seem just that states such as new york should have to forfeit a portion of their interstate highway allocation because they were  able to wait. because of heavily pressing transportation needs. for the appropriated federal funds. but proceeded on their own to construct a major highway system. under this bill the secretary of commerce would be authorized to add approximately 495 miles of badly needed highways to the interstate routes in new york and important additional mileage in other states. the state of new york is the second largest contributor to federal highway use taxes. but ranks only sixth among states in total interstate mileage. there is reason why new york state and many other states who have shown their initiative in constructing badly needed roads should be denied a fair share of federal assistance in their highway programs. the increased interstate mileage which this bill would authorize would  only contribute to the overall national requirement but would provide needed employment and stimulation to the ecoy of the entire theast. i ask unanimous consent to have the text of the bill printed at the end of my remarks and ask that the bill lie on the table until the conclusion of business on february 18 so that interested senators may have an opportunity to cosponsor it.
 should at long last come to grips fully. completely. and realistically with the leadership of the united states in the world ecoy and proceed along the lines that i have set forth. if he does that. the united states will be more powerful and the free world will be more secure. we will have an infinitely better chance to beat the communists than ever before. there is one sure way to beat the communists. and that is to deliver. in an unparalleled way. the goods and services for which men the world over hunger. when we begin to do that. thereby showing the success of our system. we shall be on the road to what my friends of the extreme right like to call "that final victory."
. the critical nature of the new havens present situation demands emergency action by both the affected states and the federal government. we must face up to two basic factsone. that the new havens cash situation is absolutely critical. and two. that it is possible that the u.s. federal district court judge  presiding over the new haven. under the bankruptcy act. could seek to take action on his own to curtail or discontinue passenger service on the ground of protection of the existing assets for creditors of the bankrupt railroad. the operating cash funds of the new haven were reduced from $8.5 million at the end of 1963 to $6.2 million at the end of 1964. a loss of $2.3 million for the year. an additional $1.7 million is owed by the railroad for a retroactive wage increase. the trustees of the new haven estimate that the operating cash fund will have dwindled to $4.4 millionless than 1 months payrollby july 1. an unexpected sstorm or disruption of passenger and freight services of the type which cost the railroad $3.9 million in february of 1961. would substantially reduce this estimate. the time for discussion has almost run out. while a longterm solution should  be overlooked. it is essential that .financial aid be made available promptly to permit the new haven to continue operations. the amount of financial aid needed is relatively modest. and in view of the sizable amounts which the states and the federal government have spent in sustaining highway construction. air service. helicopter travel. ship construction. and other means of transportation. financial assistance to sustain the new haven which serves in excess of 30.000 commuters daily. is. we believe. fully justified. failure to keep the new haven operating would bring about  only intolerable restrictions on the flow of commuter traffic in heavily urbanized areas of new york and connecticut. but would result in increasing the burdens of already crowded highways and the need for added federal and state expenditures for highway construction under a 9010 or 5050 matching fund program. the loss of the four tracks of the new haven would. according to a recent survey. require the construction of 80 highway lanes at prohibitive cost. the twostate emergency compact is the most workable and immediately attainable alternative in this emergency situation. it can be approved by the participating states in a much shorter time than the fourstate agency which we originally called for. and which we still feel is essential to meet longterm. regional transportation problems. under this measure. the authority could be expanded to include additional theastern states. such as new jersey. rhode island. and massachusetts. and transit systems within all the participating states. such as the new york city rapid transit system. the bill we are proposing today would establish a new yorkconnecticut public authority to operate commuter services of the new haven and other rail systems in the two states needing federal and state assistance. the authority could operate the new havens commuter services by itself or on a leasing basis and could administer federal aid available under the mass transportation act of 1964. the bill would authorize the secretary of commerce to pay for a 2year period. onethird of any excess of operating costs over revenues which the authority incurred. with the participating states paying the remainder under a formula to be determined by the authority with the consent of both states. the measure allows the authority to submit to the participating states a request for payment of their agreed upon share of such costs and provides for means of payment consistent with the states own constitutional and legal requirements for financing future obligations. the bill also permits the participating states. as well as the federal government. to guarantee taxfree bonds. publicly offered by the authority in an amount of up to $500 million for capital expenditures. including purchase of new commuter cars. the authority could also lease cars from state and interstate agencies. such as the port of new york authority. and make them available to needy railroads. positive steps have been taken both by the states and the federal government. on january 21. the govers of new york and connecticut annced an agreement to support contributions by each state of $5 million and to seek $10 million from the federal government under the mass transportation act of 1964 for the purchase of 80 new multiple unit commuter cars and the rehabilitation of 50 others for the new haven. at that time. the need to provide help to the new haven to meet its operating deficts was expressly ackledged. we believe such a need must be urgently dealt with. and urge the states of new york and connecticut to set aside funds in the next month to meet the railroads operating deficit. on a federal level. the interstate commerce commission has guaranteed $8 million of trust certificates sold by the trustees to provide operating cash and stands behind an additional $4.5 million of unissued certificates. the icc is also presently considering the inclusion of the new haven railroad in the pending pennsylvania railroadnew york central merger. we have favored such a merger in the public interest. this merger may well provide a longterm solution to some of the new havens problems. we have also met with the chairman of the icc. commerce department officials and administrators of the mass transportation program to obtain up to date information on what action the federal government can take and we are continuing to seek aid for the new haven railroad under that program. we have also met with the trustees of the new haven and have talked with the attorney general and officers of the pennsylvania and new york central railroads concerning this matter. while a shortterm solution has been sought. we have endeavored also to find a longterm answer to the new havens problems and the overall regional rail transportation needs of new york. connecticut. new jersey. rhode island. and massachusetts. on january 8. senator pell. of rhode island. introduced legislation to establish a fourstate theast authority. while we disagreed with some of the financing provisions of that bill which would have. in our belief. imposed open and longterm financial obligations upon the participating states which made acceptance difficult. we strongly endorsed the principle of a fourstate agency to deal with the longterm problems of rail systems in the theast. the legislation we introduce today. expressly provides authority for the inclusion of additional states as members of the authority. it is hoped that the states of rhode island and massachusetts and new jersey would be interested in entering this compact and that this expanded authority would deal with regional problems. a comprehensive planning authority for this region is necessary. a shortterm solution for the new havens critical situation is essential . but the machinery for a longterm solution must also be established without delay. we have urged the states to act. and we shall continue to do so. especially in terms of the immediate contribution of cash. but the federal government must. also play an essential role in the solution of the problem. so i urge the immediate attention of congress to this critically important matter. i would like to compliment the chairman of the committee on commerce. the distinguished senator from washington and the senator from rhode island on scheduling early hearings.
. finally. i call attention to the continuing crisis affecting the area around new york. where 200.000 passengers a day go into the city on six major railroads. also affecting other cities. the critical problem of commuter transportation in the theast has up until  received a minimum of federal attention. most unfortunately. several of the six commuter railroads in the new york area which carry a total of about 200.000 commuters a day from their homes in the 17 counties of the region outside the city limits to their jobs in new york and elsewhere in the new york metropolitan area are in serious financial condition. the biggest rail commuter operation to new york. the long island rail road. has ended the past year with a deficit of $2.146.350. at the same time the operating cash funds of the new york. new haven & hartford railroad co. were reduced from $8.5 million at the end of 1963 to $6.2 million at the end of 1964. a loss of $2.3 million for the year. an additional $1.7 million is owed by the railroad for a retroactive wage increase. the trustees of the new haven estimate that the operating cash fund will have dwindled to $4.4 millionless than 1 months payrollby july 1. an unexpected sstorm or disruption of passenger and freight services of the type which cost the railroad $3.9 million in february of 1961. would substantially reduce this estimate. we are  witnessing the opening of a new era which has highlighted the need for federal assistance in continuing commuter transportation. the federal government has spent millions of dollars in aiding other competing forms of transportation including ship and highway construction programs. airlines. helicopter services. the civil aeronautics board. the federal maritime commission. and the bureau of public roads have requested billions of dollars and congress has appropriated huge sums of money to assist essential national transportation systems. it would certainly be false ecoy if the federal government were to overlook the needs of the commuter rail services and were forced to spend many times this amount in highway construction programs to meet the demands of commuter travel. the extent of additional federal help in highway construction which would be needed if the new haven terminates its commuter services was indicated in one survey by the american transit association which stated that the loss of the four tracks of the new york. new haven & hartford railroad would require the construction of 80 added highway lanes at a prohibitive cost. on a federal level. the interstate commerce commission has guaranteed $8 million of trust certificates sold by the new haven trustees to provide operating cash and  stands behind an additional $4.5 million of unissued certificates. the icc is also presently considering the inclusion of the new haven railroad in the pending pennsylvanianew york central merger. i have favored such a merger in the public interest to include the new haven. this merger may well provide a longterm solution to some of the new havens problems. i have. together with congressman ogden reid. of new york. introduced legislation to create a new yorkconnecticut rail authority which could be quickly organized to operate commuter services in the twostate area. the authority could be expanded to include other theastern states. the measure also provides for a federalstate matching grant program to provide funds to meet the operating deficits of commuter railroads. last saturday. gover rockefeller. of new york. and gover dempsey. of connecticut. agreed to explore the possibility of a commuter service contract between the states to operate the new haven railroad. the states would act through a proposed new york state metropolitan commuter transportation authority and the existing connecticut transportation authority. this action is a significant breakthrough and a fine example of joint cooperative efforts in coming to terms with the urgent commuter problem. it is  clear that the federal government should and must join the states to maintain commuter transportation to large cities in order to solve present and future problems in this field. i hope very much that the commerce committees hearings on this subject starting tomorrow may determine upon the proper role of the federal government in helping to keep commuter rail services in operation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article on the citys commuting crisis. printed in newsday for thursday. february 25. 1965.
 freis solutions will  be universally popular. we in the united states must do everything proper in our power. as a matter of highest priority. to smooth the road and see to it that chile receives the closest ecoic and political support of the united states and of our western allies. i ask that two newspaper articles on this subject be printed in the record.
. i invite attention to the fact that yesterday the legislature of the state of new york passed a measure to authorize the expenditure of $5 million for aid to the new york. new haven and hartford railroad. this amount was set aside as part of a plan agreed upon by govers rockefeller of new york. and dempsey of connecticut whereby the states of new york and connecticut offered to allocate $5 million each and to request $10 million federal aid under the mass transportation act of 1964. it is hoped that additional funds will also be made available by the states affected by the commuter operations of the new haven railroad to meet the critical situation with respect to operational costs in accord with a com*prehensive plan as to expenditures as called for in s. 1234. and that the federal government will also provide needed financial assistance for a limited period. with such joint participation. i think we can look forward to an easing of the current commuter crisis on the new haven. in the meantime. the state of new york has taken the first step to show good faith and a readiness to implement the plan. that door  having been opened. we have a right to feel encouraged thatif the trustees will help. and if the interstate commerce commission and the other government agencies concerned will demonstrate their understanding. and if congress will be ready to lend a hand. there is a real prospect that a constructive step may be taken to place certain commuter railroads of the country. starting with the new haven. on .a rational basis which will enable them to be continued without sacrifices on the part of thousands of commuters who use these rail services daily. i observe in the chamber the distinguished senator from rhode island and my distinguished colleague from new york . who is presiding. they and other senators have given considerable aid in this regard through their efforts and their advocacy of this cause during hearings by the committee on commerce. chaired by the distinguished senator from rhode island .
. i invite the attention of the senate to an interesting report of the regional plan association. bearing on the urgent need for continuing commuter rail services in the theast and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article describing the associations views published in traffic world magazine on march 20. 1965. entitled "eastern planning group would have government step in to keep commuter trains."
. the coordinated efforts of the states of new york and connecticut in arriving at a solution for continued service of the new haven railroad is indeed good news. the approach of an agreement on state contributions of financial assistance is expected to permit service to continue in its present form for at least 18 months. this breathing period should be used to confront the problems of the new haven and metropolitan mass transportation "this proposal was endorsed by the committee on federal legislation of the association of the bar of the city of new york in 1961. e 7 supra. "see wood v. carpenter. 101 u.s. 135. 193 (1879). holmes. "the path of the law." 10 harv. l. rev. 457. 477 (1897). pound. "a survey of social interests." 57 harv. l. rev. 1. 19 (1943). "developments in the lawstatutes of limitations." 63 harv. l. rev. 1177. 11851186 (1950). compare h. rept.  2096. 82d cong.. 2d sess. 192 (1952). 1maslow. "recasting our deportation law: proposals for reform." 56 colum. l. rev. 309. 314315 (1956). with new and greater vigor. the period of 18 months should permit sufficient time for the interested state governments and the federal government to formulate and act upon new. longterm solutions. to the control problems. which have received serious attention in the past months. the new haven commuter crisis has demonstrated more strongly than ever the need for a bistate public authority. which i have. together with representative red of new york. urged for some time to coordinate mass transportation problems in new york and connecticut and the rest of the new england states. the bistate agency which i have proposed would consist of the states of new york and connecticut and could be expanded to include the states of new jersey. rhode island. and massachusetts. the bistate agency would have the authority to operate passenger rail and transit systems located within the participating states. it is conceivable that such an agency could also consider problems of regional planning for helicopter commuter service. interstate highway construction. and water travel. we should  permit expectations of a temporary solution of the new haven railroad crisis to impair renewed efforts to deal immediately with longterm problems affecting the new haven and problems of mass transportation in the theastern states generally. the renewed efforts of the congress. the executive branch. and the state governments are very much needed to solve transportation problems affecting millions of citizens in these states. on february 13. i introduced legislation to create a new yorkconnecticut rail authority to provide machinery for such operation of passenger rail and transit systems in the new england states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two editorials published in the new york times of april 20 and april 22. 1965. supporting the principle and an editorial published in the new york herald tribune of april 21. recognizing the precedent of the assumption of governmental responsibility in the rail service problem area.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks two resolutions. the first is a resolution by the board of trustees of the village of port chester. n.y.. protesting the proposed discontinuance of passenger service on the new york. new haven & hartford railroad. the second is a resolution by the board of supervisors of orange county. n.y.. favoring the creation of an interstate agency or authority to provide commuter service in the new york metropolitan area.
i assume that the senator from wisconsin. in connection with what he plans. will give some study to the plan of the civil aeronautics board. annced on february 17. 1965. and set forth in hearings before the independent offices appropriations subcommittee on june 18. 1964. and to what the board thinks about a 5year phaseout program. i am  seeking to argue the merits of the question. i am grateful to the senator from wisconsin for  challenging the issue on this supplemental appropriation bill. but i sincerely hope that the senator will also consider the authoritative views of the civil aeronautics board on the requirements of the payments in the public interest. as reflected in the record of hearings of the appropriations committee at page 137 and in the record of hearings of the aviation subcommittee of the senate commerce committee on the helicopter air service program at pages 6 to 13 of the record.
. we must put every possible effort and inducement before the state governments and the federal government. the state governments concerned are those of new york. new jersey. and connecticut. and perhaps rhode island and massachusetts. as well. this .seems to be the moment in which the great breakthrough in respect to rail commuter transportation can take place. when anyone thinks of the number of automobile highways that would have to be constructed for only the 200.000 commuters who enter the city of new york each day. -he ks that that would be impossible. we can go that route. the rail solution is the only way. it is gratifying to observe that the business community. withstanding its deep feeling about private enterprise. is at last understanding that the solution must be a partnership of private and public enterprisemixed enterprise. .as i have called itto do the job.
never have any of us who are supporting the helicopter subsidy contended that there should be only three lines. we have always been anxious that it should be widely used. and that other cities throughout the nation utilize the experience and tested equipment of the existing lines. we have always maintained that the only justification for the three at this time was to prove that it is practicable. feasible. and ultimately sound and ecoical. we are anxious to have other states and cities participate in the use of this medium of air travel including washington. d.c.. which i believe is  exploring the use of helicopter services.
i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record. as an addition to what has already been inserted in the record. the question and answer which appear at the top of page 142 of the record of hearings of the appropriations committee at which point vice chairman robert t. murphy. of the civil aeronautics board. gives the opinion that legally these subsidies are owing. and that in order to cancel out that obligation it will be necessary to amend the federal aviation act. which. of course. the congress has  done.
. reserving the right to object. i have an amendment to propose to the bill. which will deal with the interstate highway system. i am perfectly agreeable to have the unanimous consent request agreed to. but i would like to have it understood that the amendment i propose will  be objected to on the ground of germaneness.
. two things in the bill trouble me. i shall deal first with one which i have already discussed with the senator from michigan . who has treated me with his usual cooperative courtesy. that question involves a problem faced by new york and other states which inhere in the 41.000mile limitation of the interstate highway system. we are discussing the helping of areas which need redevelopment assistance. that is a problem with which i have the greatest sympathy. even though we in new york pay a large part of the taxes and frequently do  get back what we pay. i have been sympathetic with this problem and worked with the senior senator from illis and was a cosponsor of the original 1961 area redevelopment administration act. the interstate highway system is also an important illustration of what can be done to improve cominunities which need this kind of assistance. i have been urging upon the senator in charge of the bill the idea of including language in the bill which would require consideration of extending the 41.000mile limitation. an important issue involved is the issue of making up for the fact that. in new york. we built many roads which could qualify under the interstate highway systemably the thruwaybefore the interstatet highway program went into effect. we have never received equivalent benefit from the federal interstate highway system because we had the foresight to contract roads in advance of the time when the program went into effect. in other states. including our state. the interstate mileage allocation is very restrictive. considering the needs for development. even in a state like new york. which some claim is a wealthy state as these things go. there are 30odd areas which could qualify for ara assistance as and which might well be eligible for qualification under the bill. for example. i make reference to s. 1056. which i introduced together with the junior senator from new york . on february 9. 1965. that bill deals with extending the interstate highway system. with that in view. and following my discussion with the distinguished senator in charge of the bill. the senator from michigan. i desire to propound to him. if i may have his attention. two inquiries. "is it the intent of the committee on public works to follow up closely the making of a study by the bureau of public roads. which i am advised has been or is being currently undertaken on the desirability of extending the interstate highway system.
very good. the other question is. does the committee expect the bureau of public roads to submit recommendations to it on the extension of the interstate highway program as the result of the program to which we have just referred.
. we have just been advised that a demonstration grant of $3 million has been approved under the mass transit act by the housing and home finance agency. the grant will assist the states of new york and connecticut to work out a longrange solution to maintain commuter services on the new haven railroad. i point out however. that this is but temporary assistance. that the approach to a meaningful solution to the new haven railroads problems must ensure that the states and the federal government join together to ensure the operation of this commuter railroad. the states of new york and connecticut are ready to do their part. i hope very much that this present anncement represents the opening in which it will be indicated that the federal government will do its part. the demonstration project granted calls for first. developing an appropriate combination of private and publicresponsibilities for future operation of the new haven commuter service. second. carrying out a series of studies to develop facts on which to base a workable decision. including costs and benefits. capital needs. traffic potential. fare structure. possible technical inations. and the most desirable pattern of service and operations. and third. development and implementation of longterm managerial. legal. and financial arrangements necessary for continuing and improving the west end service in the future. i still believe a long term solution requires the establishment of an interstate rail agency such as incorporated in s. 1234 which i introduced together with congressman reid of new york on february 23. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial in todays new york times supporting this principle and the text of s. 1234 be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
the senator has so properly said that mexico and canada are our two best friends and neighbors. and while we might receive a small benefit. the proposed legislation might result in their gagging. we are gagging. the proposal might be the very thing that will make those countries gag. too. the way to reduce the $1.6 billion gap is to bring people into the united states. to make it attractive to travel here. and to make the united states a great area for domestic travel. we have  begun to exploit those possibilities. that is the real target at which to shoot. as the proposal has been described in editorials and in bther attacks. it is a minuscule. niggling thing. there is proof whatever that it will help the balanceofpayments problem. even if there was such proof. considering the other drains which infinitely outshine the one about which we are speaking. it is  worth. in terms of the hundreds of thousands of american people who aregoing abroad. the imposition of the additional duty. i hope the senate shows itself to be above this pettiness by voting down the committee amendment.
. with the deepest respect for the miity leader. i should like to say to him that we have already argued out the balanceofpayments question. the senate has decided that $100 will be the figure. that was the issue raised in respect to the balance of payments. i do  accept the secretary of the treasury as having said any such thing as to $60 million or $75 million. i read his testimony before the ways and means committee. all he did was to estimate and extrapolate as to what would be the $60 million figure. based upon the lower amount that persons bring in.  what they would spend. that is the issue on which the senate decided that it would go to the $100 instead of to the $50. that is  the issue. the issue still is: will we vex the traveler. as the senator from illis has said. the traveler can buy articles made in yugoslavia or in any other country. he can also buy them in the united states. he does  have to go to canada. mexico. or to any other country. we are  stopping any of that at all. that depends upon what the laws are in our own country. in terms of whether he can buy the imports here. the united states is  a mailorder house. of course. but what is the experience in this country. nearly everything that is delivered to the home is delivered. it is  dragged around in buses. even supermarkets today are delivering their merchandise. that is one of our modern conveniences. all we will be doing is to deny the traveler. we are allowing him the $100. but will hold back what he can realize on $100. duty free. and. in my judgment. defeating to some extent the very intentions which we have in giving him the $100 allowability. because we are making it inconvenientthat is all we are doingfor him to avail himself of it. indeed. he is likely to use his $100 to buy far less desirable souvenirs which he can find in the shops and drag around with him. rather than having something made and delivered later. therefore. i repeat that this is hing but a vexation. we are placing a barrier in the road of the tourist to whom we have given a modest. limited amount. if the senate is going to do this. i hope that it will do so with a full heart and a full hand. that means permitting him to bring it in himself or having it followwhich is the same resultfollowing the same kind of appraisal. and the same kind of merchandise. and the same restrictions. it involves convenience of delivery. or. must he hang it around his neck or keep it in his pockets. in order to try to get it delivered. there are many things we can purchase that way. it is a vexation and i believe the senate should strike it down.
. the helicopter subsidy was just discussed in some detail. i was necessarily absent. attending a hearing by the judiciary committee on the ination of judge coleman. i should like to state why amendment was moved to bring the new york airways operations into the helicopter subsidy. as was done on the floor in regard to the amendment with respect to the chicago lines. as the chairman ks. pan american airways and trans world airlines have entered an agreement approved by the cab on june 25. to provide funds for new york airways. i am pleased to say this because it indicates positive results from an initiative made in order to work out our situation in new york. if it could be done. the new york airways. which operates the service. will  be party to a contract with pan american and with twa with respect to continued operation of the helicopter service. according to the cab order of june 25. that contract is conditioned upon the fact operations shall  be eligible for any claim for subsidy under section 406 of the federal aviation act. i ask unanimous consent that the cab order of june 25 together with a letter from the cab addressed to me in response to questions raised about the order may be made a part of my remarks.
. last friday. the senate passed a very important measure. s. 1588. the bill to authorize the secretary of commerce to undertake research and development in highspeed intercity ground transportation. the bill. of which i am a cosponsor. provides for a 3year program of demonstration projects in speed rail service at a total cost of $90 million. as is well kn. the critical intercity transportation problems in this country have been intensified by the tremendous increasing of population in metropolitan areas. many of the existing rail services can ecoically accommodate the exploding needs of these areas. the bill passed by the senate fully recognizes the principle which i have long supported of the need of federal aid to help develop and improve our national rail system. enactment of this legislation should provide a basis for vigorous federal participation in research. development. and demonstration projects for strengthening our rail systems. the bill authorizes the secretary of commerce to contract for demonstration projects in highspeed ground transportation. the committee report indicates that the department of commerce has under consideration demonstration projects on both the pennsylvania and new haven railroads. federal funds would be expanded to cover part of the cost of new equipment during the test period and for statistical operations necessary to insure public response. these pilot programs would be undertaken. on the rail services from new york to philadelphia and washington and boston to providence. efforts will be made consequently to develop highspeed passenger service in urban corridors using existing routes and facilities whenever possible. the states in the theast are in great need of these demonstration projects. it is hoped that the development of new principles in rail travel will help both long haul and commuter services throughout the country to develop new methods of propulsion. of construction of railroad cars and stations. and of new transport services. much can be learned from the research to be carried on under this bill. and it is hoped that careful and energetic application of such information will be carried out. as has been stated by a representative of the department of commerce. rail transportation which had a tremendously revolutionary impact at its advent in the last century. has  been followed by new forms of mass ground transportation. in the meantime. air and highway transportation modernization has changed the face of this country. it is evident that the rail system of the future must have at least two attributes to achieve the greatest benefits: first. the future rail system must carry passengers with speed and convenience competitive with air transportation. second. it must  impose excessively heavy demands for space. the required characteristics of the rail system of the future deserve additional extensive study as well as do the variety of possible new systems ranging from the highspeed rail network similar to the tok aido line in japan to new concepts such as autoferries. aircushioned trains and tube devices. i hope enactment of this legislation will provide the basis for a bright new era in improved rail transportation for city. suburban. as well as rural americans. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "theast corridorare the plans adequate." published in modern railroads issue of july 1965. be printed in the record.
. at its next printing. i ask unanimous consent that the names of the senator from nevada and the senator from new jersey be added as cosponsors of the bill to amend the international travel act of 1961 in order to promote travel in the united states.
. a little more than a year ago. the civil rights act of 1964 became law. it was probably the most farreaching piece of social legislation to be enacted in decades. and certainly the most sweeping civil rights measure ever passed. the law was put into effect with speed and with great hope but. admittedly. with little apprehension. the summer of 1964 will long be remembered as a trying timea time of tension and of testing. but while the spectacular was constantly in print. while the nation riveted its attention on riots and resistance. compliance was quietly beginning. jack germond. a perceptive and thoughtful journalist with gannett publications. recently traveled through the south. analyzing the impact of the 1964 law on the area. his conclusions are both encouraging and hopeful in that he saw widespread acceptance and compliance with the law. let us praise those responsible. and hope it will continue. i ask unanimous consent that mr. germonds series "the road to integration: the civil rights act a year later" which appeared in the elmira. n.y.. star gazette. be printed at this point in the record.
. i also ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from nevada may be added as a cosponsor of senate bill 2305. to amend the international travel act of 1961. the next time the bill is printed.
. i am grateful to my colleagues the senator from vermont and the senator from colorado for their very helpful intercession. i conclude my argument by pointing out.that a distinguished columnist. roscoe drummond. who is favorably inclined to mr. shriver. to the peace corps. and to the antipoverty program. wrote an article which i had printed in the record in april 1965. the article is entitled "one and onehalf shrivers isnt egh." mr. drummond points out that there is much feeling to the effect that the peace corps is slipping because it does  have a fulltime director. when we had the problem of wanting to do more with one man than the law permits. in the case of general mckee. who was appointed recently to the office of administrator of the federal aviation agency despite his military rank as a retired officer. the administration came to us and asked that a bill be passed relaxing the military qualification for that office. we passed a bill. over some opposition. and the matter was regularized in this fashion. with deliberation by congress.
the senator. however. is confining his amendment to newspaper publishers. is he . what about magazine publishers. what about persons who render advertising services. what about anyone who renders a service. instead of transporting money across the border. they transport services. is it  a dilemma. i am trying to develop this subject with the senator.
 more than a week ago of the water quality act of 1965 is a great step forward in the federal effort to combat water pollution. all of us who supported the measure have high hopes that it represents a significant beginning of an allout national effort on this problem which is fast reaching crisis proportions. at a recent meeting of the senators from great lakes states. however. it became apparent that the $150 million a year for construction grants and $20 million a year for demonstration projects is meager indeed in comparison with the magnitude of the pollution problem. hew officials advised us. for example. that to eliminate pollution in the great lakes would require an expenditure of $20 billion over the next 10 years. massive commitment on the local. state. and federal levels will be required before the crisis abates. the state of new york is proposing to undertake such a crash program and so. i k. are many of the industrial states which recognize the gravity of the situation and can make funds available. for example. in ember. the voters in new york will be asked to authorize a $1 billion bond issue to finance gover rockefellers $1.7 billion water pollution control program. but new york. will receive only $9.888.000 as its share of the federal funds. this. of course. does  begin to provide 30percent federal financing of our program. in january. my colleague. senator kennedy. and i offered a package of amendments to s. 4 which we reintroduced as a separate bill on february 10. two of our amendments were substantially incorporated in the final version of s. 4. one which has  yet been enacted. however. provides reimbursement of its share by the federal government. of money spent by states to clean their waters. this simply means that states which are ready and willing to spend large amounts of money immediately. will  be penalized for swift and early action. the situation is analogous to that of the new york thruway and other similar great turnpikes built entirely with state funds before federal highway funds became available. we believe that states should be encouraged to initiate emergency water pollution control programs  with the assurance that if federal funds become available at a later date. they will be reimbursed. i. therefore. offer on behalf of myself and senators mccarthy. nelson. and scott my earlier indemnification amendment as a separate bill. and ask that it be printed in the record.
 personally intervened and was forced to put the full prestige of his office behind a settlement which originated in the white house. and the 1963 rail crisis. which was suspended only by a special statute closely akin to compulsory arbitrationa procedure which failed to satisfy the parties then and may well erupt once more this spring when the 1963 statute expiresdemonstrated with compelling force that what is needed is an established procedure which  only protects the public interest but also leaves the actual terms of the final settlement of the dispute to the parties themselves. to be reached by free collective bargaining.
. i ask unanimous consent to add my name as a cosponsor of s. 2599. a bill to amend the urban mass transit act of 1964 to provide for additional techogical research. today. when over 70 percent of our population lives in urban areasand the projected figure for 1980 is 80 percentthe federal government must increase its participation in developing a dynamic urban transportation system. there is reason why a government which has developed spacecraft which in the near future will send a man to the moon can develop new modes of ground transportation to enable the commuter to reach his place of business and return home quickly. ecoically. safely. and comfortably. the mass transit act of 1964 presently authorizes an expenditure up to $10 million a year for research. development. and demonstration projects in all phases of urban mass transportation. however. it is necessary to look through this veil of language to see what is actually being done. although research into developing a "futuristic" transportation system would come within the purview of the present language. the money allocated has for the most part been spent in finding ways to improve existing urban transportation systems. thus. for example. the housing and home finance agency information pamphlet for applicants for the mass transportation demonstration program states the "demonstration projects are primarily oriented to operational problems of mass transportation rather than to planning on basic research." of the approximately $35 million spent only $12 million has been expended on new concepts in transportation. the other $23 million has gone toward the betterment of the present system. this present allocation has led to a retardation of long range planning. this is true in that due to the lack of funds directed toward future planning. very few projects can be simultaneously undertaken and. in addition. insufficient moneys have caused high caliber scientists to shy away from this field. i am informed there has been neither foundation  industrial money available to universities for research into transportation. i am today sending letters to the ford foundation and the rockefeller foundation urging private studies of advanced forms of intracity transportation. last year the congress enacted legislation to provide for a 3year $90 million program to study high speed intercity transportation. it seems obvious that different techogical problems would be involved in the construction of a well designed mass transit system than in the development of intercity transportation facilities. for example. it appears that trains developed for urban commuter transportation may run at slower speeds than those designed for the intercity system. on the other hand. intracity transit facilities will be required to accommodate greater masses of people. i believe that longrange planning for urban transit has been held up long egh. those who will live in the cities of the future will  forgive the present generation if we do  go forward  to develop an urban transit system to meet the needs of 1980or even the year 2000. therefore. i urge my colleagues to join in support of s. 2599.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a resolution regarding the application of the new york. new haven & hartford railroad co.. to discontinue all interstate passenger trains. adopted by the board of trustees of the village of larchmont. n.y.. on january 3. 1966.
. in the name of westchester county. n.y.. and the town of somers. the birthplace of the american circus. the proposal annced by the post office department to issue a commemorative stamp in may designating delavan. wis.. as the "cradle of the american circus" urgently requires that the record be made clear and straight. the town of somers in thern westchester county. n.y.. is almost universally accepted as the birthplace of the american circus. i understand from officials of the county of westchester and the post office department that delavan is claimed to be the birthplace of the circus in the year 1847. but. in the year 1824. the famed elephant hotel was erected in somers. westchester county. n.y. hackeliar bailey. of the barnum and bailey circus fame. originally lived in somers and he acquired the first elephant in america. this aroused the people of somers and thus "old bet." americas first elephant. led to the founding of the great american tradition. the circus. there is a statue of "old bet" in somers on the village green. this statue was erected 20 years before delavan was claimed as the cradle of the american circus. the insignia on athletic uniforms in somers schools display an elephant and the word "tuskers". an elephant insignia is on the firefighting equipment in somers. n.y.. also an effigy of an elephant as a mark of identification appears on the highway department vehicles in somers. somers. n.y.-the birthplace of the american circusshould be the place where the post office department should issue the american circus commemorative stamp. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an exchange of correspondence between the post office department and the somers historical society and somers circus museum.
. 2 days ago there appeared an article in the new york herald tribune indicating that the administration is weighing the imposition of a head tax on tourists as a means to reduce the socalled tourist deficit. such action on the administrations part would be a major mistake and i would oppose it. it  only would restrict americans right to travel but also hurt our trade balance. it is very disturbing that after years of discussion of the socalled travel gap the administration refuses to recognize the close interconnection between money spent by american tourists abroad and the ability of countries earning these tourist dollars to purchase u.s. goods. as you cut u.s. tourist spending you are more than likely to cut u.s. export earnings. i fully realize that when the united states is suffering from chronic balanceofpayments difficulties all segments of the u.s. ecoy must make sacrifices. however. the administrations first priority should be on taking effective and important positive measures in the field of domestic and foreign tourist promotion. this would include giving the u.s. travel service its fully authorized funds-$4.7 million. an amount which has never been appropriated to the usts largely because the administration has been unwilling to give it adequate backing. without such funds usts can do an adequate job of getting foreign tourists to come to the united states. it would also include an effective domestic travel promotion and coordination program. i. with the support of 10 of my colleagues. proposed such a program last july through s. 2305 which since then has been languishing before the senate commerce committee. i would. therefore. urge the administration that before it decides on imposing a head tax on tourists that it examine the other positive steps it could take. i ask unanimous consent to have the herald tribune article. as well as my statement introducing s. 2305 on july 20. 1965. printed in the record.
. i think this represents an extraordinary breakthrough in recognition of the public responsibility of a great government agency. we are often in the position where we criticize the government agencies. here is a case in which a very fine understanding of the public interests has been manifested by the interstate commerce commission. the icc has also allowed one of historys greatest mergers. that of the pennsylvania and new york central railroads. this decision is understandable if we are to make progress in modernizing the great railroad systems. but also it is concerned with public interest. it would have been an adverse effect to have allowed the discontinuance of all new haven service. it has called for a continuation of the commuter service within the auspices of this mergera service which is so vital for the ecoy and the individual commuters who are involved. with the cooperation of the federal governmenti rise to give appropriate credit to the wisdom and sensitivity of the public interest shown by the interstate commerce commission.
. i ask unanimous consent that my name be added as a cosponsor of s. 3096. a bill of the senator from oklahoma . which would extend federal aid to the airport program. which is  due to expire on june 30. 1967. for 3 more years. a recent national airport survey shows a requirement of approximately $500 million by 1970. this is less than 1 percent of the money scheduled for the interstate highway system. for an industry that is doubling in size every 31/2 years. new york state will require $17 million in each of the next 4 years. it is estimated that 36 new york communities will require faa funds in the next 4 years.
. in 1926. 12 world war i pilots founded a little airline with a total capital of $250.000. last week. that same airline. still headed by the man who founded it. purchased the biggest. fastest. and newest type of jet transport in air transport history. the growth of that airline in size and service is an example of the accomplishments of american private enterprise at its best. pan ams purchase of the boeing 747. a new type of jet transport. is a major breakthrough. it is important both to our commerce and to our national security. major impact of the boeing co.s program to produce the new 747 will  be felt until 1968. from then on. the program will be a source of strength to the ecoy for a number of years. it will provide employment at home. through sales to other countries it will aid our payments balance. both as a passenger carrier and a cargo carrier. the 747 will be of great benefit for our businessmen. it will reduce fares for american tourists going abroad and for the growing nunber of foreign visitors coming to the united states. the massive civil and military airlift  serving saigon points up the importance of the new. big airplane to national security. all 25 of the planes involved in pan ams initial order will be assigned to the civil reserve air fleet to be available for defense purposes in time of emergency. hopefully. other airlines will follow pan ams lead and order fleets of this new. efficient airplane. new yorkers can be particularly proud that pan am has shown this leadership. for pan am is new yorks hometown and home state airline. pan am is the only major trunkline to maintain its corporate headquarters. its operating headquarters. and a major share of its maintenance and other activities in new york city. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record several articles on this subject.
. i wish to take this opportunity to extend welcome and congratulations to the new state of guyana. after 152 years of colonial life under the name of british guiana. guyana has attained independence. withstanding a number of political and ecoic problems. the 650.000 people of this. new nation have proceeded along the road to independence with moderation and good sense. most heartening. in particular. has been the fact that the overwhelming majority of the people have rejected the communist alternative. much of this success is due to the fair minded leadership of guyanas prime minister. mr. forbes burnham. who is doing much to ease the tensions between the negro and indian sectors of guyana. in hoing this new nation i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two editorials. one published in the washington post and the other in the new york times on may 26.
. i want to call the attention of the senate to an excellent editorial written by william d. patterson. associate publisher of the saturday review. on recent proposals in washington to reduce the u.s. gold drain by restricting american travel abroad. the points he raised in opposition to restrictions and in support of positive stepscongressional approval of the u.s. travel services current $4.7 million budget request and an increase in its budget to $10 million in the foreseeable futureare exceedingly well taken and deserve the full consideration of the congress. i fully agree that before any serious consideration is given to the imposition of restrictions on travel every positive avenue must be explored. last july 20 i introduced a bill. s. 2305. with 10 of my colleagues. which could make a major contribution in increasing the effectiveness of u.s. travel policy. i strongly urge that the senate approve the $4.7 million requested by the u.s. travel service and then make a fundamental reappraisal of the adequacy of our present travel program. major improvements are essential. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial by mr. patterson be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. understanding fully the situation. but regretting it and being sorrowful over the fact that an arab monarch received by our nation should etheless give voice to such sentiments as the king has expressed. i express the hope that this incident may have taught the kingkings can learn too. i am suresome lesson which will cause him to rethink what he has said. to rethink the ideas and the policies reflected by what he has said. perhaps then he will really accept a historic opportunity which could be uniquely his. as an almost absolute monarch in a very tightly organized country to begin to travel the road toward some kind of light. instead of the darkness and the danger which seem to engulf the arab states in the middle east.
. i should like to propound an inquiry to the senator from washington. the manager of the bill. there was very important testimony. which i think most members will recall. to the effect that new york state had worked out. with an appropriation of $100.000 from the state legislature. the plans for the prototype of a safe car. it will be recalled that witnesses from new york state. led by senator edward j. spe one of our state senators. testified to the fact that. with an appropriation of $100.000 from the new york state legislature. the plans for the prototype of a safe car had been worked out with the cooperation of the state authorities and private industry. as represented by republic aviation. one of our new york state companies. i submitted amendment  506 to the bill. the amendment proposed that $5 million be authorized on a 5050 matching basis. it would be possible with the use of this money to procure a contract for the building of such a prototype under the auspices of the safety plan of the bill. pursuant to this display of initiative. much progress has been made. i am delighted to see the senator from connecticut present in the chamber. he also was greatly impressed with this initiative. would the provision contained in the bill. in section 106(a) paragraph 2. relating to "contracting for the fabrication of motor vehicle equipment for research and testing purposes" be sufficient authority for such a contract as i have in mind. or are there any other provisions in the bill concerning which the senator can key me. second. would there be any inhibition against the making of a contract with a state or state agency.
. i think it is a splendid bill. the senator from maine has taken care of many of the problems concerning which so many of us have been deeply concerned. i k what a monumental labor it has been. i congratulate the senator on his work. i k that many of our colleagues are deeply interested in the ecoy and in the federal expenditures. this is a $6 billion bill. but it is a $6 billion bill because the senator from maine has had the graciousness and the generosity to accept other peoples ideas. too many of us do  do that here very often. it is a very good precedent. the pending bill has taken much of the steam out of the argument concerning the $6 billion bill. the senator has pointed out very properly and ly that it is a great deal of money but that the money does  have to be appropriated right away. the states will be encouraged by the passage of this bill to go ahead and spend the money on the theory that they will get it back ultimately. in a state like new york. in which there is a $1.7 billion project. the idea of being able to get reimbursed for money being spent currentlywhich we can raise by credit and other meansmakes us able to proceed. we will take our chances and the risk that ultimately the federal government will reimburse us. however. i point out the experience that we have had and why this is such a brilliant provision in the bill. the new york thruwaythe first of the great trunk roads through the stateswas followed by others in the country. and it has literally revolutionized our land. there was federal road program at the time of its construction. we are still trying after all these years to get some federal reimbursement for what is in effect an interstate highwaythe new york thruway. new york would  have gone ahead with the great sewer construction program which our voters have authorized. by referendum incidentally. unless we had reassurance that we would be reimbursed for our expenditures. i think the provisions incorporated in the bill by the senator from maine are very sound. the other provisions are splendid. i am especially enthusiastic over what amounts to the advance approval of a river compact with respect to a river basin. this is a fine example of federalstate cooperation in a most elementary effort in our country toward the preservation of the water and its purity. i think that the senator from maine has every right to derive emous satisfaction from his role in leading us into the enactment of this measure which i hope will soon be enacted.
. i appreciate what the senator is saying. i would like to make this substantive point. when the men go back to work. and i hope they will be going back to work. they have to get wages. hours. and conditions of work. and so forth. is it the intention of the drafter of this substitute. the senator from oregon. that where the airline dispute board is referred to in section 3. and the statement is made "a special airline dispute board which shall thereafter engage in mediatory action directed to promoting agreement among the parties." that that will include mediatory action while this law that we are talking about remains operative as to interim wages. hours. and conditions of work under which the employee will be working. for example. we have heard it said that the workers will receive the salary and the compensation specified in the settlement that they turned down rather than the old wage rate. it seems to me that we should.
 signs the bill. he is signing a direction for a return to work. a period of 30 days. and then 60 days. is provided for. there is direction in the resolution as to the settlement of the dispute. i think it would be difficult for the workers. management. and the riding pablic to k that at the end of 30 days. or 60 days. or aher 90 days. the transportation could be cut off. and that congress would then have to be faced with a need for a resolution of the dispute. tantamount to compulsory arbitration such as occurred in the railroad dispute. whether we argue it should be done in this way or in the way proposed by the senator from pennsylvania and. as i did in committee. i shall support the substitute and. if it fails. i shall with ardor and strength. support the clark resolution. as i did in committee. we must do something. and have something which is a consensus and which congress will produce. i have done my utmost. within the limits of statesmanship. to architect something which would command the support of the majority of congress.
i love the senator dearly. and i k why. we a.ppropriatei will  say how much. but ik it is in the many. many billions of dollarsfor federal roads. 9010 and 5050. it is a fact that there is a geometric ratio between mass transit and roads. the senator from new jersey brought that out. we brought it out in the hearings this morning on the question of the cancer in the cities. it is real. it is a danger from within.  from without. because it is 10 to 1. in other words. we get 10 times more for our money in mass transit than we do in roads. i will be told that we can appropriate less for road but i will tell the senate that this country is growing. and it is growing at the rate of 3 percent a year. we will have to put up more money. why . we are making more money. what kind of sense is this. the gross national product today is over $700 billion. we are spending less of it on government needs than we did 50 years ago.
we questioned him on that subject. and he said he was giving the matter thought and inquiry. as a matter of fact--i am drawing on my recollectioni think he expressed feeling at all. but that this was quite proper. and he would be ready to respond in accordance with our request. i should like to say to the senator from kentucky and the senator from colorado that i really do  consider this putting any pressure on the administration. with respect to the airline strike. we. in this body. discussed a shared partnership. as it was so often referred to. and the administration is very diffident about proceeding along this line. but it will proceed if we move. too. and in this way we are moving. too. we are saying. "let us have it." and i have doubt that we will get it. and everything the secretary said would bear that out.
. the point i wish to make is that we did take care of a very real problem of the automobee dealers in eliminating the idea that if their mechanics. their salesmen. and their partsmen were employed in a separate structure from the one in which they conducted the garage or service station. that that would deprive them of the exemption which they had. the report. at page 32. contains language which i proposed. to make it clear that the exemption will extend to the employer even if certain of the employees are separately housed. this is a tremendous advantage. because it was a problem. very greatly complained about. to the dealers.  then our factual inquiry demonstrated that as far as the automobile partsmen were concerned. they did work regular hours. they were . like the mechanic and the salesman. subject to call at any time that a fellows car broke down. but the parts departments generally remained open at stated times. even in the smallest establishments. and therefore. the thing to do was  to deprive of the overtime partsmen of the wholesalers by grading them down to the level of the retail dealers. but rather to grade the whole thing up. i do  subscribe to the idea that this is for any automobile lobby. and i do  subscribe to the idea that these amendments are designed to favor anybody. they merely equalize competition. and at the same time give the worker his due. which is overtime pay. in a perfectly mal operation which we found. as a matter of fact. does  have the vicissitudes and the uncertainties which can be ascribed to the jobs of the mechanic or the salesman. i think it is a perfectly fair compromise. it is constructive. i hope very much that the senate will agree with that view
madam president. i shall be brief. i k the manager of the bill wants the bill passed. before i do that. may i call the attention of the senator from arkansas [. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a table showing the average annual increase in visitors from various key centers of the world from which there is travel to the united states. and an appraisal of the annual return per dollar invested as it relates to the added number of visitors.
madam president. all of that increase. of course. is  attributable to the work of the u.s. travel service. but some of it is. as the proportions are extremely great. i think a strong business basis is indicated for a greater investment of u.s. funds. the budget estimate called for $4.7 million. the senate committee has certainly done better than the house by recommending $3.3 million. i express the hope. since this is a hardheaded business proposition. involving a key sector of american imbalance in international payments. that the committee will stick by its guns in conference and will retain the senate figure for the u.s. travel service. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record the text of my october 5 statement on the usts fiscal year 1967 request before the appropriations committee and a speech i made on u.s. travel before the 26th u.s. travel conference on october 10.
. i will count it a signal service to our country if. on the anvil of debate beginning before the joint subcommittee. we can come to a solution that is fair to the young people of america. for whom" we are the trustees in terms of policy. we can possibly see the end of these policies. certainly  in my lifetime and probably  in the lifetime of most of the others in the chamber. but we can be hoable trustees. ready to shape our policy to the times.  just the immediate times but also the road ahead.. as we see it. it is in that sense that i feel we have acted today.
. the maritime administration. on january 24. annced that the nuclearpowered ship savannah will be withdrawn from operation in august of this year. the savannah was launched with much fanfare and a cost to taxpayers of some $50 million as the initiation of a new era of peaceful use of nuclear energy and a new chapter in the history of the american merchant marine. . a relatively short 8 years later. the project is being abandoned. and the savannah is being iginiously put in mothballs. i am asking the maritime administration for a complete report on this decision and the ecoic consequences that it entails. including how present operating costs compare with the costs of deactivating the ship and defueling its nuclear reactor. i would also like to k what will be the consequences of the dispersing of its highly trained crew and what this may mean to the future of nuclearpowered merchant marine vessels. and finally. i would like to k why we are  faced with this situation. when the ship was being planned. were e of the problems that have plagued the unhappy history of the savannah anticipated. were surveys of the use of the ship or estimates of operating costs made. were these problems unavoidable. or was this a case of lack of administrative foresight and bad management. the planned withdrawal of the savannah is  only significant in itself. but is. i think. a manifestation of the existing sorry state of our countrys merchant marine. the vietnam situation has highlighted how very important the merchant marine is to this country. yet the decline of our merchant marine continues unabated. the distinguished senator from washington . chairman of the committee on commerce. recently pointed out some of the disturbing trends of our declining merchant marine. we  carry only 8 percent of our foreign waterborne trade. while the world fleet has increased by 61 percent in the last 15 years. americas privately owned fleet has decreased by almost a quarter. today only some 100 of the nearly 900 american merchant ships can be considered "modern." it seems to me that our existing maritime policy is like a ship with neither rudder  anchor. we have been in a state of drift. it is reported that the administration is in the process of developing a new policy in an effort to remedy the situation. i look forward with great interest to seeing the results of this effort and will give it a great deal of study. it is certainly time that we faced up to this problem and gave it the attention it deserves. i ask unanimous consent that the article and editorial on this subject. published in the new york times. be printed in the record.
my final question is this: we are all adults. we are all over 21 years of age. senators get elected and have to be reelected at given times. yet. we are told that if we approve this treaty. it will mean that we are going down the road to becoming vulnerable to the russians. they will overreach us. and we will approve everything they hand us including denuding us of the atomic bomb. does the senator really believe that this is any credible argument. and that a senator like myself. the senator from illis . and other senators in the chamber who are likely to vote for this treaty. and i hope and pray that they willwill be perfectly ready to stop this treaty. the next one. even on outer space. if we do  like what the russians are doing.
. i am pleased to join senator magnuson in sponsoring this joint resolution to permit the continuation of the "see the united states" program till the end of 1967. the united states is a latecomer to the travel game and i regret to say that were it  for our balanceofpayments problems we would  be as far along as we are today. senator magnuson and i sponsored the international travel act of 1961 which created the u.s. travel service. representative ullmans original "see the u.s.a." resolution led to the "discover america" program in 1965. also. the national association of travel organizations has for several years been working to advance the cause of travel in the united states. these efforts followed the 1954 report of the subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy of the foreign affairs committee of the house of representatives first calling attention to the need for a major u.s. travel effort. these programs represent only a beginning but a far from satisfactory one in terms of our travel potential and in terms of the travel efforts of many other countries. the bill i introduced with the bipartisan support of 10 senators on july 20. 1965. and following extensive consultations with broad segments of the travel industry. contains key elements of a satisfactory travel program for the united states. i will reintroduce it shortly with the hope and expectation that congress will act on the problem this year. i believe the discover america program. which is made possible by this joint resolution. is very useful and should be made part of any overall travel program for the united states. i urge the senate to support this joint resolution with the understanding that it represents a "downpayment" on an effective u.s. travel effort which is so very long overdue.
we have a law which penalizes strikes against the government. the penalties heretofore were considered so severe that they were  actually administered. the law has been amended to make the penalties less severe on the employees. but heavier on the unions themselves. in the hope that that will be more effective. on thursday. april 6. together with senator kuchel. i introduced my concept of the broad legislation which is needed upon this subjects. 1456. frankly. i do  look into crystal balls. but i stated in introducing the bill that i believe the nation was facing a railroad strike and that we were fiddling while rome was about to take fire right at our feet.
i thank my colleague very much for his helpful intercession. for many years he was the president of the screen actors guild. i should like to point out that  only are there two immediate situations facing us. the railroad strike and the truckers lockout. but there is also  outstanding the 80day tafthartley injunction in the electricians strike in the major west coast shipyards. issued on the ground that the disruption of work there was interfering with our ability to maintain our forces in vietnam. in addition. negotiations in the rubber field are  going down to the wirethe present contract expires on april 20. all of these situations are happening at one and the same time.
i do  want to upset any applecarts. but we adopted a comcxiii- 837part 10 promise on this figure. it involves a very important item of travel of personnel for the enforcement of various civil rights provisions. i do  see why we should be so diffident about cutting the item just because a senator requests it. who may  agree with civil rights enforcement. and who wishes to strike $50.000. when it was cut from $170.000 to $100.000. it seems to me when we are doing what we are doing in the whole wide world. and when we are anxious to maintain reason and order in this country. we should  start to cut the number of personnel who have to do the job. after we had already cut it and were satisfied the job could be done by cutting the amount from $170.000 to $100.000. here is aher $50.000 cut. it seems to me to be niggling. one can nibble it so much as to kill it. but sometimes we have to stand up and fight for it. i would like to ask my colleague from rhode island about the situation of this particular agency. the senator is familiar with it and is just as sympathetic with it as i am. how would he justify in his own mind this additional cut.
 eisenhower. he closed the canal to israel shipping. because of this. israel had to establish the port of eilat in order to engage in commerce with nations that could  be reached through the mediterranean. except by a circuitous route which was prohibitively expensive.
. i had intended to speak this morning at some length on the problem of riots and violence in our cities in connection with the entire matter of civil rights and the long. hot summer issue. however. inasmuch as we have a great emergency in the railroad strike matter in which i am very heavily involved as the ranking member of the appropriate committee. i shall forgo making my speech at this time. but i wish to annce that i will address myself to this subject  later than wednesday.
ial task force on travel to make recommendations on how to make u.s. travel policy more effective. it has  yet been appointed6 months later. i have proposed legislation for 2 years  to significantly expand the u.s. travel service. action on the bill has been blocked for one reason or aher since then. this is one of the most neglected areas of american life in which the course i have described could be very materially reversed. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial which appeared in the july 8 issue of the christian science monitor. entitled "the travel gap" as well as a bill i introduced in the 89th congress which would increase the effectiveness of the u.s. travel service. with explanatory remarks. be printed in the record at this point of my remarks.
. i hope that those who own general aviation airplanes will pay strict attention to what has happened in new york and will learn from it and act upon it in a patriotic way before we have to mandate it by law. i have made various other recommendations in legislation i have introduced as to creation of a trust fund for the improvement of airports and for the construction of more general airports. and so forth. but the main point is that the operators of general aviation airplanes owe their country a debt to take their airplanes where they will rather than where they do as they do contribute in such a major way to such dangerous traffic congestion over our major airports. the port of new york authority joined with major airlines in anncing several moves to ease congestion at the three major new york city metropolitan jetports. pan american world airways annced it would develop and operate teterboro airport in new jersey and republic airport in long island for general aviation. the port authority will set up stop bus service between teterboro and the west side terminal in order to make the airport more attractive to private fliers. the legislation which i introduced on august 31 would encourage the establishment of these "satellite airports" for general aviation around large metropolitan areas. i have urged the setting up of an airport trust fund for this purpose and for overall airport development including the development of a mass transit system to and from central cities. yesterday. the federal aviation agency also published sweeping new safety rules to lessen the risk of fire and to speed evacuation of a crashed aircraft. these steps to make crashed airlines more "survivable" is a major step but certainly an attempt to deal with an effect and  the cause of such accidents. i ask unanimous consent to have several articles from the new york times on this subject printed in the record.
. we could experience a major disaster that would negate and erode from under our feet everything that we have tried to do. programs for which we have appropriated hundreds of millions of dollars which has been spent with excellent results. it is like building a bridge with one footing missing. if the programs are dismantled and eroded. it will cost much more money to restore them. if they can be restored at all. the emous disappointment and frustration of the poor people who feel that they are  on a solid road is a matter which ought to be on the conscience of everybody. i urge my colleagues in the senateand especially those in the house of representativesto come to an agreement on the authorizing legislation so that we may . by sheer inaction. destroy the very thing which it has taken so much creativity and sacrifice to build. i urge the members of the other body to keep in mind the potentially disastrous upheaval which would be caused by the failure of congress to timely appropriate the necessary funds. and i ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times describing the situation be printed at this point in the record.
. let me close as i began in this debate by pointing out that in our newspapers day after day we have read about the tremendous sweep of denunciation. complaints. anger. and condemnation of what is going on. but it has  been acted upon here in the senate. the reason was we apparently had vehicle by which to do it.  we do have such a vehicle to which we can actually attach an agreedupon amendment. in my judgment. the other body has ertainly made life very difficult for the r boor people concerned in this matter- v f  impossibleby its obdurate stand. i: i am  trying to use the continuing resolution as a major cutting vehicle for expenditures. the senate has  gone i along with that. to its eternal credit. but f the senate wishes to persevere in its i position. then it must extend the date on which it takes its stand. it is for that reason that we urge the date of ember 30 as the right way in which to do the right thing.
s task force will have at least this much financing. there is a tremendous job ahead to be performed by this task force. it is obvious to anyone familiar with this problem that the efforts by government and by business today in the travel area have been inadequate both in absolute terms and relative to the job being done in other important developed nations. there must be tremedous improvement made in the facilities provided for our foreign visitors. in attracting these foreign visitors to this country. and in handling these foreign visitors once they arrive. there is a much better job that must be done to coordinate the millions of dollars that are being spent by various agencies at different levels of government relating to travel so that duplication may be avoided. there is need to establish within the federal government a preeminent voice in the area of travel. and most importantly. a much better job must be done to increase congressional and public awareness of the importance of travel to our ecoy and our balance of payments and as a means of communication between our people and other peoples. congress today. especially the house appropriations committee. has refused to provide the one agency in the government that has done an effective job in the area of travel with adequate funds. i consider this aspect of the travel task forces study and recommendations as one of the most important ones. i ask unanimous consent that the white house anncement. my bill. s. 2305. along with recent statements i made on this subject. may be printed at the conclusion of my remarks. i strongly urge members of the task force to pay very close attention to this bill which is a result of extensive consultations with wide segments of the travel industry and which i believe contains much that must be done to put the united states on the road to being a firstclass travel nation.
. the amendments to the railroad retirement act  before the senate are the product of a combined effort by railroad labor. railway management. and the railroad retirement board. a federal agency. this measure was approved by the house last thursday by a record vote of 321 to 0 and was reported favorably in this body unanimously by the committee on labor and public welfare. in addition to giving increases to some 653.000 individuals presently receiving railroad retirement benefits. the measure adds an additional 3.000 beneficiariesdisabled widows between the ages 50 and 60  presently included in the law. this is indeed a constructive improvement in the statute. the benefits extended by this measure will go into effect on february 1. this legislation rectifies a situation created when congress recently enacted the amendments to the social security act. while those amendments automatically increase compensation for some railroad retirement beneficiaries. others were  covered. this bill takes care of that situation. i wish to pay particular tribute to the leaders of railway labor and to the representatives of railroad management as well as the members and staff of the railroad retirement board who. working together. developed this legislation which meets a vital need in providing equitable treatment for retired railroaders and their families and which brings up to date our railroad retirement statutes. i should also like to commend the members of the railroad retirement subcommitteethe senator from rhode island . chairman. the senator from oregon . and the senator from pennsylvania . on the majority side. and the senator from colorado and the senator from michigan . on the miity side--for their efforts in bringing to the floor of the senate this highly complex and wellbalanced measure. retired railroaders and the nation owe these men their gratitude.
the senator from ohio [mr. lauschej is a member of the committee on foreign relations. i feel certain that he will agree with us that in areas where it is necessary to come to agreements with indiges countries in order to use their currencies. many countries are just as desirous as we are that their currencies be used for constructive purposes. including the encouragement of travel in those countries.
so the senator believes. as i do. that with the use of a little ingenuity. and considering the amount of credit and resources which we have available. a great deal can be done to overcome the travel gap. after all. the administrations objective is only $1.250 billion. and the travel gap is about $2 billion. the objective is to cut it down to $1.5 billion or a little less. according to the senators ideas and those i have suggested. a great deal more than that could be done. yet there would be interference with the freedom to travel. which is so dearly held by the american people.
 to deal with our balance of payments. i hope -very much the administration will get behind a stimulation of foreign travel to the united states and begin to -use brains and ingenuity to work out arrangements with foreign countries which would  inhibit travel but facilitate travel and postpone the impact on our balance of payments. and we could thereby use currencies we have in excess and counterpart currencies for similar purposes. i think that with an application of ingenuity. brains. and the investment of a small amount of money. a great deal can done in this field which will obviate the need for imposing harsh restrictions on the traditional right of americans to travel anywhere in the world.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from connecticut be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend the international travel act of 1961 in order to promote travel in the united states.
 of a choice of americans in the cooperative and patriotic tradition of our country. namely. to refrain from unnecessary travel. within 3 months after it was set up. the task force. consisting of leaders in the travel industry and the federal government. put together a very significant package. one which is likely to result in major improvements in the ability of this country to attract large numbers of new visitors from abroad. and in significant immediate and longterm improvements in our travel deficit. i call particular attention to the task forces recommendation that a national tourist office be established to coordinate and direct the entire u.s. travel effort. i am very pleased with this particular recommendation as i. along with 11 senators from both parties. have sponsored legislation for over 2 years to do exactly that. those of us who fought long and hard for an effective u.s. travel effortfrequently without administration supportcan take satisfaction that. at last. this matter is receiving the high priority recognition it deserves. i e that the task force believes that drafting of legislation establishing a national travel office can be completed in 90 to 120 days. during which an appropriate budget can also be drawn up. i urge that every effort be made to live up to this schedule. that congressional leaders. including those who have a deep interest in this matter be consulted in the drafting of this legislation. and that hearings on this legislation as well as on the bill i introduced on february 1. with senators bible. brooke.
i am sorry. but will the senator allow me to finish. is it  a presumption that such action at any time within 15 days after his travel is considered to qualify under the law. so that he has to explain to the jury why he is  guilty. let me show where that is latched in. it is latched in at page 2. lines 11 and 12. where it says "who either during the course of any such travel or use or thereafter." that does  even have a limit of 1 day.
i would merely say to the senatori was  here when he stated his interpretation of the language of the amendmentthat it was my judgment that the language would cover both senator and staff. because the operative words related to the kind of contributions a senator could seek. for what purpose. the purpose for which he could seek contributions was travel home. and to me. that would represent also travel home on his behalf. to wit. by his staff. i would hope that perhaps that could be clarified by my colleague. the senator from texas.
i assure the senate that i can make my reply to the senator from new jersey in 2 minutes. . the senator from texas came to me and explained that the amendment was adopted yesterday. for which i votedto wit. to strike out. "reasonable expenses incurred or contemplated of his office." because it was onerous upon senators who had private means. i think he was right. i think the distinguished senator was quite right in striking out such a broad exemption as was contained in this code of ethics. so he went into specificity which would deal with the problems of senators without much means. before he even began to speak. i made it clear to the chairman of the committee that i had joined in. so that the senate could consider it. and accept it or strike out any part of it we chose. frankly. i did  expect they would take the whole thing. but they did. i would . therefore. like to point out to the senator from new jersey that he has relief. he is  helpless in this matter at all. the senator can move to strike the provisions on page 4. line 25. which exempt from reporting anything which comes under the yarborough amendment. and can require that to be reported publicly or privately and. therefore. have complete control over it within the scheme of the resolution. there is  the remotest desire on my part to shortchange this general proposition. i am all with the senator from new jersey. but i think that senators who have major. private means have a real problem. the senator from texas went into the specificity of the necessary travel. i certainly should k what that costs. because i do  get contributions for my travel. my airplane bill is $1.000 a month which. fortunately. i am able to manage. but i have never received 1 penny out of my salary for travel expenses in the 20 years i have served in the house and senate. that is my business. of course. i am sympathetic to the situation. for example. of the senator from new jersey. so i would suggest to the senator. before we lock up the resolution. that he look it over very carefully. the situation is by means irremedial in the case of senators who have a paucity of personal means.
it is an elementary principle of law that where you specify categories. they take precedence over the generalization.  rather than to tie them. it will be recalled that last night we eliminated the moratorium on public works. that action did  meanand several senators have asked me to explain it and i havethat public works can be cut because they can be. they are available for cuts within the $87 billion i described. we said they can be treated specially. they have to be treated like everything else and they are subject to cuts. i am trying to reserve certain critical items which affect the cities primarily. although as the senator has pointed out. there are definite rural implications. however. primarily they deal with the problem in the cities with respect to tranquility and public order. therefore. the area in which cuts can be made remains very wide and it includes the entire defense program and many other things  included in the three specifics the senator mentioned. i wish to give one or two examples. drawing on this very splendid list made by members of the other body. they include. for example. $100 million for various expenditures for public information. they include a freeze on government civilian employment involving $961 million. that would go across the board. they include the national science foundation. as much as i value it. however. in that item there is $250 million involved. there is also involved the supersonic transport. $222 million. highway beautification for $85 million. i approve of all of these programs. but we have to make a choice somewhere on priorities.
. as to the particular questions surrounding the socalled yarboroughjavitsgriffin amendment. these points should be made. the resolution as originally presented to the senate permitted the use of contributions to "defray the reasonable expenses. incurred or contemplated. of his office." it added. as a safeguard. that these contributions could be so used only if the member made a "complete and accurate accounting of the source. amounts. and disposition of the funds raised." there is such safeguard of public disclosure at this time. thus. in this regard. the resolution represented a significant advance over present practice. however. i regarded the original resolution as much too general: for example. it would permit the use of contributions for such purposes as staff salaries. travel anywhere in the world. and any kind of office operation of a personal or political character. for this reason. i supported senator cases amendment on thursday. march 21. to strike this provisionwhich was successful by one vote. subsequently. senators yarborough. of texas. and griffin. of michigan. came to me. as one who had supported the case amendment. to join them in dealing further with the problem. they were deeply concerned that the case amendment. which i had supported. was implicitly inevitable to senators. depending on their means. as i come from humble circumstances. this concern. and the amendment they offered appealed to me. and i added my name as a cosponsor.
. take. for example. article vi of the gatt which deals with dumping and which is. of course. that article of the gatt which the code elaborates and defines. when article vi was first negotiated as part of the gatt in 1947. it very largely reflected the concepts and provisions of our antidumping act. but with respect to the concept of injury in the act. which wasas it still issimply stated as "injury" and without any elaboration. article vi provided that antidumping duties may be imposed only where dumped imports cause "material injury" to a domestic industry. i think the reason for the addition of the interpretative term "material" is quite clear. as i have ed above. it was obviously intended to avoid the imposition of antidumping duties in cases where the injury was only slight or negligible. this interpretation has stood since 1947. has never to my keldge been challenged. and has been consistently used in the determination of injury in dumping cases. the shepard citators for all states and territories of the united states and for all federal courts of the united states were searched since 1947 to the most currently available supplement in june of 1967 for all cases which cite 61 stat. pts. 5 & 6. at a 3. since gatt is sometimes cited without using the "stat." reference. it is possible that persons who prepare the citator could have missed some cases if they did  translate a different citation into the statutory cita.tion. in addition to searching the citators. various attorneys both in and out of government were contacted who might have kledge of other cases. "o baldwinlimahamilton v. superior court. 208 cal. app. 2d 803. 25 cal. rptr. 799 (1962) (california "buy american act" held to be unenforceable because violative of gatt). bethlehem steel corp. v. board of commrs. civil . 899165 & 897591 (super ct.. county of los angeles 1966) (also challenged the california "buy american" act). territory v. ho. 41 hawaii 565 (1957) (struck down as unconstitutional and contrary to gatt a territorial law requiring retailers selling imported eggs to advertise that fact). texas assn of steel importers v. texas highway commr. 364 s.w.2d 749 (tex. ct. app. 1963) (administrative ruling of the highway commission requiring the use of domestic steel in highway projects challenged as contrary to state law. the constitution. and gattdisposed of on state law grounds). the bethlehem case held that baldwinlimahamilton was controlling and that the plaintiffs had an adequate remedy at law and therefore denied a petition for a preliminary injunction. on may 2. 1967. defendants motion to dismiss was granted. the author has been informed that the case has been appealed. see e 286 infra. see also comment. gatt. the california buy american act. and the continuing struggle between free trade and protectionism. 52 calif. l. rev. 335 (1964). e. 17 stan. l. rev. 119 (1964). talbot v. atlantic steel. 275 f.2d 4 (d.c. cir. 1960). morgantown glassware guild v. humphrey. 236 f.2d 670 (d.c. cir. 1956). c. tennant. sons & co. v. dill. 158 f. supp. 63
it is intended only as a matter of encouragement in this sense. that was my purpose. if the language is inartistic. we can always change it in conference. however. i think the language is correct. my purpose is  to contravene the lowest price concept. except by saying that. all other things being equal. aher thing cast in the balance is what the contractor is willing or able to do in training hardcore unemployed. that is why i use the language "insofar as practicable." that is why i use the language "a favorable factor." which is contained in the amendment. the senator will remember that the witnesses said they were able to do it only on a physical location basis. my amendment is an effort to broaden the policy a little bit. to get away from locking into a physical location. because. as a matter of fact. there are mighty few defense operations in or near the ghettos. they go to places where it is ecoically feasiblewhere there are railroad sidings. airfields. or areas conducive to large scale production. therefore. i have limited my proposal to consideration of the matter as a "favorable factor."
. we are all quite aware of the tremendous new demands on our existing airports and air safety system which will be made within the next decade. in view of what i have long felt to be an inability within the administration to propose any constructive airport development plan. last august i introduced a proposal--s. 2379calling for an airport development fund comprised of various user taxes to be used to expand and renew our hub airport facilities. i am still aware of administration plan which comprehensively deals with airport development. on the other hand. there does seem to be a significant amount of activity in the air safety field. the u.s. news & world report in its may 6. 1968. edition. discusses some of the new safeguards which hopefully will be introduced in the near future to improve air safety. i am also concerned with the apparent inability to deal with se abatement around airports. we must find some answers to the se problem since the sst and other supersonic planes may soon be flying over our populated areas. it is still my view that until a fuller effort is made to develop our ground facilities we will never be able to have the efficiency and safety which we require. i ask unanimous consent that the u.s. news & world report article be printed in the record.
i should like to ask the senator about the committees attitude toward the affected residents. in the planning and design of a federalaid road project prior to the department of transportations approval. would the senator say that the secretary of transportation could withhold approval if he believes there has been inadequate consultation and participation with affected residents. to the maximum extent feasible with respect to such a project.
the committee. in its report. has recommended making available federal participation with respect to federally aided construction of fringe parking facilities. the report states: the committee believes that federal participation in fringe parking facilities with highway funds is fully justified. i should like to have the chairmans comment about this matter. it seems to me that this. certainly. is a real enlargement of the concept of the federalaid road program insofar as it affects the tremendous development of the suburbs and the conception of the need for downtown parking at shopping areas. an effort is made herein to preserve shopping in the core city. these provisions really do both. they deal with the parking problems in suburban shopping centsrs and surburban complexes as well as in core cities where direct road aceessas in the city of rochester in my own state of new yorkhas made it into the equivalent of a suburban shopping center. through a particularly broad arterial highway which delivers the client or customer right to a parking area contiguous to the core city.
i thank the senator. finally. on the subject of relocation assistance: when i was a member of the committee on banking and currency. i became convinced that there were few things which were more injurious than the way in which people who were preempted from their own homes by virtue of highway or other types of construction were treated. of course. our committee had jurisdiction only over housing. and we did our best to improve the situation somewhat. but  nearly egh. i am very pleased to see the enlightened provisions for relocation which are contained in this bill. and also the mandate. again at the penalty of losing the benefit of federalaid highway funds. that the states fairly and adequately carry out the recommended relocation practices. i ask the senator from west virginia whether this is really his concept of what ought to be a uniform federal relocation policy. of course. his committee has jurisdiction only over roads. but is it  his concept of what ought to be a uniform policy. across the board. if a person loses his home by virtue of road construction. it is the same thing as if he loses it for urban renewal or for any other reason in . volving eminent domain. i would appreciate the senators comment.
. inadvertently. travel agents were included in my bill. s. 4112. which would provide for federal matching grants to assist states in establishing and strengthening their consumer protection programs. the inclusion of travel agents would introduce an extraneous issue in the consideration of this bill. namely. state versus federal regulation of travel agents. therefore. i am deleting from the bill reference to travel agents and will leave to congress to determine whether any such regulation is required. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to accomplish the purpose which i have outlined.
. i wish to sum up my support of this treaty. and put it in focus. as i see it. this is the first time that we have really made an effort to arrest the nuclear arms race. in business. as in government. before one can start on the road back. one has to stop. i deeply believe that we are going just about onetenth of the way in the ratification of the treaty. this is a case of our ratification. and that of the soviet union and the united kingdom. we still have to bring 40 nuclear nations into it. that is going to be a very big job. they must be inspired with a sense of confidence that it is worthwhile to go into it. in addition to the 40 countries. we have problems with nations like west germany. israel. and other nations that have special problems. so what we do. when it is done. is  all done and finished. it is but the beginning of a very long road.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. the international and domestic travel act of 1969 for myself and mr. bible. mr. brooke. mr. can. mr. hartke. mr. mcgee. mr. percy. mr. scott. and mr. williams of new jersey. and i request unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
 on behalf of the senator from wyoming i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from nebraska be added as a cosponsor of the bill to designate the interstate system as the "eisenhower interstate highway system."
. i commend secretary volpe for proposing rules that would provide added safety and reduce congestion at our high density airports. i have often maintained that the major airports should be used primarily for the great volume of commercial aviation traffic. in conversation with air controllers and faa officials on my tour of the traffic control facilities at kennedy international airport in new york 3 weeks ago. and in subsequent communications with administrator schaffer. i indicated that i would introduce legislation. should the faa fail to deal with the issue. to require all aircraft to equip themselves with devices that would allow the air traffic controllers to monitor all aircraft within a designated radius of the airport. and to limit access to the high density airports predominantly to commercial aviation. i am most pleased that secretary volpe has proposed rules that would  only effectuate these goals but also would attempt to establish "terminal control areas" to further reduce the possibilities of midair collision. the problems of safety and congestion have long confronted our airports. and often create chaos for the traveler. i believe that regulations such as those suggested by secretary volpe can be an effective measure to reduce congestion and improve safety at our airports. and so that the rules may be as sound and equitable as possible. i would urge all interested parties to take an active role in the hearings that will precede their promulgation. if these rules turn out to be ineffective. i will certainly introduce legislation to correct the situation. i am very hopeful that this present accomplishment may be the beginning of the necessary steps to do the job.
 nixons pledge  to restrict the right of u.s. citizens to travel freely to places of their own choosing but rather to attack our balanceofpayments travel imbalance by constructive and positive steps designed to stimulate increased tourism to the united states. the american society of travel agents. which took the lead in opposing efforts in the prior administration to restrict the right of u.s. citizens to travel abroad. is continuing to play an important role in stimulating u.s. tourism. and director washburns speech also illustrated the constructive industrygovernment partnership which exists in this field. i commend asta for this effort as well as their effective work in improving the standards and proficiency of the travel industry. having joined with the senator from washington the introduction of the bill which established the u.s. travel service and urged our government to be more forceful and imaginative in the programs to stimulate tourism to the united stateshaving also kn langhorne washburn for yearsi take personal satisfaction in the enthusiasm and effectiveness which he has brought to the important role of the director of the u.s. travel service. i certainly hope that congress will respond to the efforts of director washburn and the u.s. travel service by appropriating an amount sufficient for the usts to begin to meet the commitments which the nixon administration has made and which director washburn has outlined. at the very least. this amount should correspond to the $4.7 million statutory ceiling presently on the books. also. bills at present before the senateincluding one of my ownwould raise this ceiling significantly. because of the importance of director washburns message and the need to focus the attention of the senate on the programs he has outlined. i ask unanimous consent that his remarks to the 39th world travel congress be printed in the record.
i just wanted to thank the senator. because he obviously reads his mail and pays very serious attention to what senators submit to him. on three occasions i wrote the senator from louisiana concerning five projects of great importance to the state of new york including the new york harbor anchorages program. the fire islandmontauk point beach erosion prevention program. the lake erielake ontario waterway study. the port jefferson harbor dredging project. and the great lakes research and demonstration program. the new york harbor anchorages project in the port of new york to deepen the harbors anchorages is one of the most critical needs of the port. and will benefit  only new york state. but the entire nation. i have supported this ongoing project and am grateful to senator ellender and his subcommittee for recommending the senate appropriate $2.900.000 for this program. the beach erosion prevention program between fire island and montauk point on long island is of crucial importance to the preservation of one of the states priceless natural resources. i requested the senate appropriations committee consider reinstating the administrations cutback for this program. and the committee responded most responsibly and thoughtfully by increasing the appropriation to a total of $880.000. in view of the necessity for completion of this program at the earliest possible time. and in light of the new capability offered by the corps and the states indication that sufficient state funds are available. i hope the house conferees will  see fit to concur with the senates support of this program. with respect to the lake erielake ontario waterway study. i requested an appropriation to permit the completion of this report which will permit the continued development of the st. lawrence seaway system so important to the maritime ecoies of this nation and canada. i am pleased to e the senate appropriations committee has recommended $100.000 for this study. i requested $50.000 to permit the army corps of engineers to commence a preconstruction study for the dredging of the port jefferson harbor on the th shore of long island and this amount was recommended by the committee. this study involves a reexamination of the plan of improvement and project ecoies. the great lakes research and demonstration program is of great import to the abatement of pollution of the great lakes. and it is most gratifying to k that the appropriations committee has recommended the full $5.1 million capability of the federal water pollution control administration for this program. examination of the work done by mr. ellender and his subcommittee indicates that serious attention and satisfaction were given to the needs of new york state. i would like to express to senator ellender what i k to be the thanks of the people of new york for his courage. and that of the senator from th dakota . and my other colleagues on the appropriations committee. in directly meeting the problem of water pollution. i commend them for appropriating $1 billion for water pollution control construction projects. and i assure them that they have my support for that appropriation. the appropriation is of tremendous importance to us in new york where we have a great number of ongoing and planned projects. new york state. by voting for a $1 billion pure waters bond issue in 1965. has taken upon itself the initial task of cleaning up its waters. and i am proud to say that the federal government. under the distinguished leadership of the senators from louisiana and th dakota . is  facing up to the nations needs for clean waters also by this appropriation of $1 billion. i think it is a splendid example of what can be done by dedicated men when they see the great national issues involved. i thank senator ellender and the members of the appropriations committee for their diligent efforts in preparing recommendations for the public works appropriations. i k they and their able assistants have weighed each appropriation according to its need. they deserve the thanks of the senate
may i say to the senator conference report on public works ap- island. that is. from fire island to from louisiana that i should like to ex- propriations. there are a number of montauk point. which has an emous cxv- 2327part 27 national resource in its beaches. the senate appropriations committee. i think. was understanding of our position by making the additional $380.000 available. and the compromise with the house to add at least $190.000 to the original $500.000 requested will be. i think. an effective measure to do what needs to be done to protect and preserve those beaches. also. in view of the critical importance of new york harbor.  only to new york but also to the whole nation. i should like to express my appreciation to the senator from louisiana and his colleagues for the approval of funds to continue the dredging of the anchorages in new york harbor. the allowance is  everything we had hoped for. but it certainly will enable the work to go forward. let me ask the senator just one question: does the fact that an item may have been omitted in conference which had been approved in the senate bill mean that there was any substantive problem about the item. i refer to port jefferson. does its omission mean that the committee did  feel it had egh money to distribute this year. that it had done the best it could. and that there was prejudice whatever against trying again next year.
i should like to be recognized. i shall  detain the senate. i think that would be very unfair. but i do think that those who did change their vote about this matterand obviously there were someperhaps did  hear the discussion we had when we had it. i think it is fair to say that  a single word was uttered in the debate in defense of this practice. i said the practice is indefensible. and i think it is. effort has been made to defend it. i believe the senate prides itself on its objective judgment. and. having given an opportunity to vote to the member who feels that he was overlooked and did  votethat is  our faulti think the senate should  at least consider why it voted as it did before. . i close as i began. i heard  a single argument against opening free competition of free enterprise in relation to ship repairs away from the home port. finally. this has hing to do with emergencies in time of war. that would be exempted and the amendment would  affect that at all. in view of the fact that substantive argument has been made against this effort to open up the situation. the senate should stand by what it did before.
that is true. i have faced that hard road myself with the house. but the only time one gets stuck that way is when the house comes over and says. "we will take it." but i think. as practical men. we can guarantee that the house will .
. i submit two amendments to h.r. 14465. the airport and airways development act of 1969. one. coauthored by senator goodell. deals with airport site selection. the other concerns the scheduling of airline flight times. the airport legislation  before us is the culmination of long. strenuous congressional effort to satisfactorily grapple with the emous and increasing need for civil aviation. and i think. on balance. this legislation is meritorious and deserves the support of the senate. indeed. i am pleased that the combined effect of the bills are reported by the senate commerce committee and the senate finance committee is in large measure similar in concept to my own bill. s. 1265. which i had originally introduced in august 1968. as s. 2379. although i had varied the levels and scheme of the taxes imposed. i. too. suggested collecting user charges and depositing them in a trust fund to help develop airports and airways. like the legislation  before us. the intentions of my bill were multiple. central among its purposes. along with the improvement and expansion of our national aviation network. was the concentrated effort to relieve airport and air traffic congestion and delay which increasingly threaten  only the safety of aircraft passengers and crews. but the ecoic stability of the area in which the airports are located. and in the case of new york city. the stability of the whole country. a recent rand corp. study estimates delays to have cost aircraft operators and passengers $37 million at kennedy airport and $6 million each at la guardia and newark. and. as one witness a former faa attorney wrote the senate commerce committee. 80 percent of the nations air traffic delays was attributable in some way to air traffic congestion at new york city. the direct and indirect ecoic impact. i think. is obvious. facts. figures. testimony. and our own experiences attest to the conditions that do or will result in frustrating congestion and delay. for example. the reported passenger miles flown in 1968 was 106.5 billion. while the forecast for 1974 is 204 billion and for 1979. 342 billion. and secretary of transportation volpe has testified that he "waited for 45 minutes on a ramp at la guardia 2 weeks in a row. once for 50 minutes and once for 45 minutes" for a takeoff space for which he was 18th in line. it is my belief that many steps must be taken to cushion the impact which the continuing congestion crisis has on so many lives. one step. which everyone agrees must be taken. is to provide funds adequate to improve. expand and add necessary aviation facilities. the bill before us expects to raise approximately $10 billion and spend over the next 10 years $5.5 billion for airport development and airway facilities. mine would have allowed for approximately $1/4 billion per year. raised by a combination of user charges and subsidy of the interest on locally issued bonds. this spending step alone is  sufficient. however. to battle the congestion problems. additional measures must be coordinated with that of spending money. aher step i had taken in my bill which the legislation before us has . was to impose a tax on all fuels used by both commercial and commercial aviation.  only to raise revenue. but also to provide an incentive to airlines to shift their arrival and departure schedules to avoid air traffic congestion at peak hours so they may reduce fuel costs. although i had made such provision in my bill. it is  my intention to seek to modify the revenue raising user taxes in the legislation before us. which has been so thoroughly considered by four congressional committees: the house ways and means committee. the house interstate and foreign commerce committee. the senate commerce committee and the senate finance committee. in a letter to the senate finance committee during the course of its consideration of the legislation. i had said. "i believe that it is most important that some form of legislation be acted upon by the senate  to help alleviate the problems confronting aviation today. and if at all possible. a lengthy detailed deliberation over the taxing features should be avoided. so. it is with the thought in mind of expediting this bill that i recommend that the finance committee strongly emphasize the availability and importance of section 103 of s. 3108. "the cost allocation study." which will allow congress to fully review the taxing provisions and make equitable adjustment if necessary. that is still my belief. and i hope each senator. recognizing the urgent need for this legislation. will consider section 103 and the present section 409 of h.r. 14465 before attempting to modify the financing provisions of this bill. further. i ask that a copy of my letter to the finance committee be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. that at best. a new fourth jet port for new york or aher jet port for chicago or los angeles will require something in the area of an average of 6 to 7 years to build. and that therefore we have to have some interim way of reducing the congestion . one way. of course. is through what we do about general aviation. aher way is in the scheduling of commercial airlines themselves. in my bill. s. 1265. i had included provisions amending the federal aviation act of 1958 that would have given the cab the authority which is the subject of this study i am calling for. but unfortunately. the senate commerce committee did  have the opportunity to thoroughly investigate such a proposal. recognizing that such authority should  be granted without first thorfebruary. 25. 1970 oughly considering the impact of such authority. i am at this time calling for a study. with regulations  in operation restricting aircraft from flying within 10 miles or 4 minutes of the 747s. i think it apparent that a concerted effort must be made to most effectively coordinate airline schedules. certainly. a study of this nature would have to consider that general aviation and scheduled commercial aviation do  fly on fixed time. a study such as this might best put in focus for the congress the problem of scheduling and how a coordination of airline scheduling might reduce or avoid congestion. and i sincerely hope that all who have an interest. including the airline industry. would vigorously participate in such a study. i ask unanimous consent that my second amendment be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. they have been conferring and endeavoring to agree for a long time . without success. as i said. many sites have been considered and rejected. so that looks like a very promising suggestion. beyond that. there is authority except the moral suasion of the secretary. and perhaps the fact that he might stretch his power in respect to safety by withholding funds on the ground that safety is endangered. but these are extreme measures. we certainly do  want him to get to the point where he would be put in the position of having alternative but to shut down one or more airports. because he is withholding funds on the ground that the present three are unsafe. therefore. we believe. my colleague from new york and i. that it is desirable to give some additional authority to the secretary which would enable him to bring about a resolution of the question. in my judgment. and i am sure that the two senators from new jersey will argue the case for themselves very eloquently. to the williamscase amendment gives the secretary power beyond what he already has in various other parts of the bill. our amendmentsenator goodells and minewould give the secretary somewhat less authority than does the committee bill. the committee bill gives the secretary plenary authority. because he would be entitled to select the site. naturally. the states concernedthe state of new york and. i assume. the state of new jerseyare very unhappy about letting the secretary of transportation make a decision that they themselves ought to make. so i think it is fair to say that our amendment and. probably. the amendment of the senators from new jersey. are dictated by an effort to deny authority to the secretary at this time to make the choice. in lieu of letting the states do so. that is the negative part. our amendment. just as the amendment of the senators from new jersey. would deny the secretary such authority. the next question is. can we do anything else. that is where i think we propose a compromise. instead of giving authority to the secretary to pick a site. we give him authority to withhold money from that metropolitan area. money that possibly could and should be used. in the judgment of the secretary. for an additional airport. provided that he first consider the report of a public panel. which we call an airport priority review panel. which would also publicize its recommendations. so that the public would be assured that it is  an arbitrary selection by the secretary. perhaps based on the authority which he already has to withhold money. but that it really represents a matter on which he has had an appraisal by reasonably disinterested and interested people. that is the essence of our compromise. we do give the secretary authority to withhold money on grounds related to airport selection. that authority. however. he may exercise only insofar as the priority in the use of the money is concerned. such a priority in the use of funds is to be exercised only after there has been a public finding by a public panel as to the propriety of the particular need for the funds that he is insisting on. but the secretary can choose a site and mandate it upon the states concerned.  even under the limited authority he possesses to withhold some fundsmind you.  funds of the whole state or even of the whole metropolitan area. it is just that he may establish a higher priority for that needed airport and may withhold funds because that priority is  being met. because of the failure of the parties to agree.
i think he would be authorized to make the finding that there should be a priority for a new airport. but that priority would require. say x dollars. let us be arbitrary. let us say that $50 million in resources is available for that particular area. and that the priority which he would provide for an airport would represent $20 million of the $50 million. that would be the sum he would be authorized to withhold until the priority was met. he might say. "i have set a priority of $20 million for a major airport. i will  disburse that $20 million until my priority of agreement upon a major airport has been met. i have $30 million for other airports other than the first priority i have established. that amount i will disburse." that would be our intention. but it would also be our intention that the secretary  just withhold funds but also spend them. but spend them in such a way that would in fact provide for reduced congestion and greater safety. for example. by stressing a spending on air traffic control facilities.
. questions concerning scheduling have arisen at laguardia and kennedy airpolts and other places. and it is  always possible. by specific agreement. to resolve these competitive questions. which are inherent in scheduling. if there are more than x number of aircraft arriving or departing within a given time bracket. it emously complicates the problems involved. and voluntary agreements. while they should always be resorted to as a preference. are often difficult to obtain. much as i favor it. it will take years for this next airport plan to be implemented. so i have consulted with the manager of the bill. the senator from washington . and the senator from new hampshire . and i ant hopeful they will agree to the proposal.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the names of my colleague from new york. mr. goodell. and the senator from oregon be added as cosponsors of s. 3522. the motor vehicle disposal act.
 is trying to improve them. but they do  begin to do the job. i think the postal strike and the work stoppage by the air traffic controllers are of sufficient severity that congress should get on top of them . i hope that we will get to work on the matter. i urge the air traffic controllers to come back to work. i think that is their best course. having made their point and having called attention in many respects to their grievances which. as i say. are quite justified.
. we should  mally let the bankruptcy of one company be the cause for national concern. but penn centrals condition is a national issue. this railroad affects our ecoy in the following major ways: the penn central originates about 20 percent of the railroad industrys total carloads. equally important. 70 percent of the pc tonnage is interline trafficthat is. handled in conjunction with other railroads. the pc is thus like the mainspring in a watch. if it fails. or if its service is substantially impaired. the total national rail system is affected. penn central owns and operates ovez 20.000 miles of track in the theastern part of the united states. extending from massachusetts to the mississippi rivel and from the great lakes and canade to the ohio river and washington. ii - serves 16 states and two canadiar 1 provinces. the penn central handles over 90 mil- lion passengers annually. this include. e 20 million intercity passengers and 7( million commuters. it operates abou 1.300 passenger trains daily. of whicl 1 1.100 are commuter trains. the penn central is a significant fac. - tor in defense transportation serving 20: s military installations. - the penn central is a major factor h r. the nations sensitive financial system - it has 120.000 stockholders. its long .t term debt is $2.6 billion. with the bull held by major life insurance companiee pension funds and mutual funds are als principal holders of its debt and equity securities. penn central has 94.000 employees. its weekly payroll amounts to $19 million. the magnitude of these figures suggests  only the ecoic importance of the penn central but also the necessarily complicated nature of any solution to the immediate problems of the rail industry. immediate help is necessary. but such help unaccompanied by a comprehensive attack on the structural problems of the industry will only be selfdefeating. in this regard. i commend to my colleagues an editorial in yesterdays wall street journal. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. while i can agree with the editorial word for word. i do believe that it explains how great and how complicated are these problems and how they can be solved by loan guarantees alone. a comprehensive approach. such as can be supplied by the joint committee described in my bill. should sort out the issues and give a comprehensive approach to our nations rail problems.
 in his may 21 message to the congress to provide $1.5 billion in assistance on desegregation to schools throughout the nation over the next 2 years. in order to meet the emergency situation of schools facing september deadlines this year. the amendment would provide funds under six authorities presently existing in law. also. as the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on education. mr. pell. pointed out this morning during hearings of the subcommittee. this amendment will serve as a test vehicle for gauging the efficacy of the larger $1.5 billion administration proposal to which i have referred. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a memorandum citing the individual statutes. the amounts which would be utilized under each. and a description of the authority.
. and we must state. very properly. that this $150 million will move along that road and give us a pretty good idea as to what they are really doing and how well they are likely to administer a very much larger bill if we let them have it. for that reason. i consider it to be an added benefit that we get out of acting at this time.
 necessarily. because i do  k what that act will say when we get through. the fact is we do  have any such act on the books. presidents can ask and they do ask but we dispose. i think the general idea around here. as i feel the sentiment of the senate. is that we would like to see what they do with the money and how they use it before we get into a bigscale operation. and even before we finalize the authori-" zation bill on which we are holding hearings. so i will say to the senator from louisiana that i personally consider. aside from the fact that it is the general road the president wants us to travel. that this $150 million sui generis is  necessarily based on the administration bill. because we do  k what is going to happen to that bill. we may change our minds. this is based on the outline of what they wish to do as laid down before the appropriations committee. which i am sure the senator. who is very diligent. has gone over very carefully. and it is based on the authorities which are contained. as the president has said. in existing law.
 kennedy before the tragic assassination took place. we talked about the balance of payments. he was then gravely concerned about it. and we even talked about the possibility of some curtailment of what american citizens could take abroad. because our situation was so bad. he did  like it. ody liked it. but. etheless. it was that bad. yet. as senator magnuson has eloquently said. we have never adapted our resources to stimulate travel. which this country so readily deserves. mexico. for example. earns  approximately $900 million a year net out of travel. mainly from the united states. that is the balance in its favor. there are tens of millions of people in the world who ought to be traveling here. we have never articulated the situation intelligently egh to attract them. this is a situation which calls for improvement. i have introduced this bill. as cosponsor with senator magnuson. to try to beef up the situation. the improvement is in the authorization for the u.s. travel service. which is  $15 million. a figure which we certainly ought to meet in the appropriation. it is little egh. the bill also contains matching funds for state programs. this parallels our good experience in the arts and humanities. which has developed 50state art councils which we would  have had otherwise. finally. the bill sets up a commission. at long last. to look at the entire travel picturewhat the facilities are. how they are run. how welcome we are to tourists. what language services we give. what packaged tours we arrange. and what we impose upon the foreign traveler through our customs and immigration requirements. there was a time. for example. when we fingerprinted tourists from foreign countries. it sounds like a joke. but it is true. and we expected them to love to come to america. this commission will see what private business is doing. there was an effort in a program called "discover america." by private enterprisethe travel companies. the airline companies. and so forthto work up some kind of program for promotion of travel to this country. it never got off the ground. but that remains a possibility. so the commission is a very welcome addition. i k that senator magnuson will work with it closely. and so will i. in the hope that. at long last. a realization may come of the magnitude of the problem and the amount of money which needs to be spent on it. i would estimate that the $15 million spent in promoting travel to the united states could result in cutting the travel gap by $500 millionit is that kind of leverageperhaps even more than that. it is that kind of leverage which we could have in a very businesslike arrangement by which you get back for what you spend a minimum of 10 to 1. assuming. naturally. that it is spent intelligently and in areas from which travel can be stimulated. so i join with the chairman of the commerce committee in commending this conference report to the senate. i express my great satisfaction at our working together as we have. i urge the senate to pay strict attention to the report of this commission when it comes along. we shall do our utmost. naturally. to stimulate an early report. as this is one of the best ways. for many cultural and international relations reasons. in which to deal with the serious and worsening balanceofpayments problem of the united states. we are dealing here with one of the biggest single items in the adverse balance of payments. i hope. at the very least. that we get this program started. i think that the chairman. senator magnuson. has done a magnificent job in this respect. and i urge the senate to approve the conference report.
my daughter this year. purchased for $180 a europass which will enable her to travel in europe without limit. on all railroads. for 2 months. we should be able to offer the same convenience. our airlines. for example. do  have any special arrangements. and i hope that they would explore all the possibilities.
. at the desk is senate joint resolution 222. to amend the waterfront commission compact and to consent to an airport commission compact between new york and new jersey. which was introduced last thursday but has  yet been referred. after conferring with the chairman of the committee on commerce. the senator from washington . and the senator from nebraska . the ranking miity member of the committee on the judiciary. who has cleared the matter for me through the judiciary committee in the absence of its chairman. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may be referred to the committee on the judiciary. that the committee on the judiciary be requested to refer the bill in turn to the committee on commerce. which will have its reference limited to 30 days. and then to return the bill. with its recommendations. to the committee on the judiciary.
. before we act on that motion. i would like to ask the senator from louisiana a question. does the senator mind. of course. i will agree to approving the report. but i think this is a good time to comment. if the senator had come to a stopping point. in the first place. let me say that i think the committee and the senator from louisiana have done magnificently by new york. and we have complaints about the way in which new yorks public works projects have been handled. we did have one project. which the senator was very gracious to speak with me about. concerning a preconstruction survey. for the proposed dredging of port jefferson harbor.
yes. on long island. may i explain to the senator its importance. and why i asked the question. i will be very brief. long island is. as the senator ks a very vital. growing community. with approximately 21/2 million people. the question is whether this particular harbor. which is a port on long island sound. should or should  have some commercial utility. leaving aside for the moment the argument as to whether. if the harbor were commercially useful. it could also be useful for recreation. it does  necessarily follow that it has to be some foulsmelling port. i have leaned. myself. to the idea that a growing community immediately contiguous to new york city needs material such as oil supplies. which is one of the major products received in port jefferson harbor. that is why i urged the committee. and the senator from louisiana was most gracious in including it for me in the senate bill. to act affirmatively on approving $50.000 of the authorized port jefferson harbor dredging program for a preconstruction survey. we understand that the local representative from that area takes quite a contrary position. but i think it would be very helpful. to k why the house .conferees felt they could  concur with the senate conferees.
. perhaps the most controversial political question in education today involves busing. yet. there is one aspect of busing on which all agreethe necessity of providing safe transportation for some 18 million of our children who travel about 2 billion miles each year on the nations 200.000 schoolbuses. for some time. i have been working on the problem of safety of schoolbuses. heretofore. i authored an amendment to the elementary and secondary education act which resulted in a study on schoolbus safety under the auspices of the department of health. education. and welfare and transportation. most recently. i wrote secretary of transportation john volpe expressing my concern and raising a number of specific questions. i ask unanimous consent that secretary volpes reply and my letter be included as part of my remarks. the secretary points out a number of constructive steps  being undertaken. i am certain that the senate wishes to k about this and many of us will be watching these developments with interest. for the nations schoolbuses daily transport our most precious cargoour future.
. this is a matter of very great importance. it originated in the establishment of the u.s. travel agency some years ago in a bill which i sponsored with the senator from washington . who took the matter up here and got something done which i had been trying to do for 10 years or more. and i think it was a great service to our country. this particular bill begins to recand i am very grateful for the gifted ognize the issue. it is a combination of a bill of mine and a bill which senator magnuson developed in the committee. leadership of senator iye in dealing with the matter. the conference has  resulted in everything that we wanted. but it does have a provision with respect to the national tourism resources commission which is critically important. it does for the first time really tie in the travel programs of the various states. many of which have done individually far more than the united states as a whole. promoting foreign travel to the united states is critically important in terms of the balance of payments as well as in terms of our international posture as a leader of the world. the bill also recognizes the important contribution being made by the u.s. travel service under its excellent and imaginative director langhorne washburn. both the increase in authorizations for the travel service and the elevation of its director ta the rank of assistant secretary of commerce will mark positive steps toward putting this country on a par with the rest of the world in its efforts to attract international tourism. i ascribe this show of confidence in the u.s. travel service in part to the thorough review of our travel programsthe first of its kind since passage of the travel act of 1961by the house and senate commerce committees under their very able chairmen. on the whole. i feel that the senate did about as well as it could. though there is still a very long way to go before we really redeem the promise which is inherent in the fact that the united states is probably the greatest tourist attraction in the world. other nations. far smaller and poorer than the united states. do infinitely more in terms of the world effort to stir tourism than we do. there is still an emous area for improvement. in many. many ways. including immigration requirements. we are far from where we ought to be in terms of encouraging tourism. on a local level. for example. very few of the great cities have police officers or other officials who speak the languages of many of our visitors. but this bill does represent the second landmark step after the passage of the original legislation. it does adopt some of the major features of the measure i introduced. and i am very hopeful that it. can be made to mark a major step forward in encouraging travel to the united states. which is  generally recognized to be important to our country. i should like to point out again what has. been pointed out time and againthat in an imbalance in international payments which has hovered around the $4 billion mark for some years. over $2 billion is attributable to the travel gapthat is. what our tourists spend abroad compared with what is spent here by tourists. e of. us begrudges this travel by american tourists. on the contrary. we applaud and encourage it. but we deserve to do very much better on the interchange than we have done. this bill will help some. but we would be deluding the senatei am sure senator iye would agreeif we led the senate to believe that this is the whole ball game. it is far from it. it will help. however. and we must be grateful that we have come a bit further than where we were.
. i have parochial ideas about someone being taxed to pay for a transcript. i hope that will  be intruded into the consideration of a much broader question. i will help pay for the transcript myself. if the debate has to put it on that level. i think it is sense to put it on that level. these hearings obviously will be used as a vehicle for contending there were hearings. the point is that a protest had to be made. and unhappily for me there seems to have been one on the spot to make it except me. i felt in conscience that i had to do it. so. for those reasons. i reiterate the objection. saying that. immediately after objecting. if the committee desires to continue its hearings from today on. i shall have objection.
. the new new york times of october 12. 1970. contains a story about the scope and impact of the abandoned car problem. and. while it comes as surprise to me. it ought to be of interest to -my colleagues because it shows how drastic the problem is. and -that it is a national one requiring a national solution. i have sponsored a measure. s. 4204. .the motor vehicle disposal act. which would deal with this problem on a national basis. i ask unanimous consent that the article from the new york times. and the text of my bill. be printed in the record.
. i joined in it because i think that the senator from maryland has indicated a road which can be very productive and very helpful in greatly improving our relations with our european allies in nato.. and in focusing the attention of the senate on the key issues and real facts of the situation we face. i compliment the senator. i shall work with him  only to have his resolution agreed to but also to make it work.
. i would like to comment on the u.s. effort to attract overseas visitors to our shores and to bring to the attention of my senate colleagues an interesting speech on what the future holds in store for this effort. it is appropriate to comment on travel at this time. since 1970 marks the passage of the first comprehensive travel legislation in 9 years. the 1970 amendments to the international travel act of 1961 will establish a commission to find out exactly what our travel resources and needs are. it will increase the budget of the u.s. travel service. and it will institute a program of matching grants to states engaging in international travel programs. with a country of such diverse tourist attractions as the grand canyon and new york city. of disneyland. and our own national gallery. it is shocking that the federal budget for attracting tourists from abroad has actually been exceeded each year by such smaller countries as ireland. greece. and italy. the new programs and authorizations contained in the international travel act amendments will help rectify this situation. they will also pose new challenges to private businesses engaged in the $30 billion travel industry. in short. these amendments will  only put some muscle in the national travel effort. with all that this implies for the travel account of our balance of payments. but they will also usher in a new and expanded dimension in federal. state. and private industry cooperation. this cooperation will be especially unique since the travel field comprises such a large diversity of businessesfor example. bus lines. hotels. restaurants. amusement parks. and travel agenciesof which a large percentage are small businesses. how to muster the leadership for a coordinated travel program. and how to provide the millions of dollars which will be required in addition to the federal share. is the subject of an interesting address by the chairman of the discover america travel organizations international committee. james montgomery. mr. montgomery envisages 8 million overseas visitors in the united states by the end of this decade. spending together with canadian and mexican tourists about $5 billion in foreign currencies. the promotion costs for this $5 billion of business would amount to $70 million. in federal. state. and private industry contributions. mr. montgomerys analysis of funding sources. and his optimistic view of the future u.s. international travel effort is the view of an expert and one which i commend to my colleagues to read. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts of mr. montgomerys speech be printed in the record.
. i shall look into it promptly. and if in my judgment it is worthy of it. i shall seek a hearing from the appropriate committee with respect to this matter. we will  k what is appropriate until we k whose decision this was. whether it was a state department decision. a coast guard decision. or who did what. there seems to have been a breach and violation of everything we believe in. in terms of asylum. and of the international agreements to which we are so much a party. so that senators may be apprised of the situation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the editorial from the new york times entitled "land of the free."
. if we allow the strike to go on. and the men actually go out. some would argue that. "well. this is a way to compel people to collectively bargain." but at the expense of the country suffering so catastrophic a blow. i doubt very much that that is a price we all wish to pay. i point out that once they are out. if we do  act in time to avert this awful decree. the situation will get confused and :t will be very difficult to bring them back. and will undoubtedly involve some delay. indeed. we had testimonyi am speaking  strictly as a matter of factfrom the railroads the last time we faced this problem. we had the testimony of the railroad managements that they simply could  be responsible for what would happen if there was any suspension at all. matter how short. and that things would get so fouled up that it would take weeks to rearrange them. i will say. in deference to the unions. that this time they have done what last time they did only at the hearings: they have offered to move defense material or material required for healthwhat they call "essential shipments"-and to continue all passenger services. this involves. really. the reason for a hearing. i might tell my colleagues. because the managements firmly maintain that they simply can run the railroads that way. it presents critical problems in determining what is and what is  essential. disagreements on that score. the impacts on emous backups in freight yards of cars full of material which is  going to be permitted to move. and to screen out of that what is going to be permitted to move. they claimand that is all i can tell. congressthat such problems would present them with a practical impossibility. this is something we will simply have to make up our minds about. we may say we do  k who is right. but we do  want a strike for x days. to avail ourselves of the opportunity to find out who is right through necessary hearings. i would represent to my colleagues. particularly consistent with the majority leaders view. with which i agree. that we still have to face up to our problem here in congress. the time is unbelievably short.
. i understand the subject of the debate. there are many cases in which you have to "break eggs" to get a result. i k the senator is  concerned about the fact that we are often told in connection with bills that. "if you do  do this you will lose everything." sometimes senators have to run that risk. what makes me sympathetic to the question put to the senator from louisiana is. first. his high character. he does  give assurances unless he is going to deliver to the best of his ability. second. there will be an opportunity for a supplemental and this is  the end of the road for us. therefore. we do have to take seriously what is said herethat. if we go so far and can go further. then the entire matter will be jeopardized. but if you go so far and it would be possible to go further. and there is an assurance such as the senator from louisiana has given. that is a different matter. i am sympathetic to the attitude the senator has taken and i. too. would welcome the opportunity to discuss the matter.
i shall propose two amendments. one dealing with a very serious situation in respect of beach erosion and hurricane projects. i k that has been discussed in committee. i wish to bring up that matter and have the judgment of the members of the committee on it. the other matter relates to the clearing of new york harbor. which is a very difficult problem and represents a very serious emergency to the greatest port in the united states. it is marginal in money and in about 8 years comes to about $16 million for the federal share. new york also has a third project. but i hope to engage in colloquy on that matter. as that is in the house bill. without offering an amendment.
the railroad retirement act is  a government program like social security. i am dealing only with a private pension fund and  at all with the railroad retirement act. it will have effect on railroad retirement.
. when i rose. i was going to discuss the very thing which was touched on by the senator from kentucky . aside from our contribution and our fault in respect of this whole matter. in leaving the united states without the needed kind of guarantee authority. and without laws to deal with the danger and threat of a national strike. such as a strike on the railroads. we  turn to the icc. an examination in depth. i should like to advise the senator from indiana. the chairman of this particular subcommittee. is certainly required as to the responsibility of the icc in bringing this particular railroad to its knees and to a liquidity crisis which could happen to others. in addition to what the senator from kentucky has presented to the senate. as to whether this merger. which was brought about in the way he described. was desirable or undesirable. we have the additional fact that the icc itself is encumbered with almost as many work rules and old traditions and shibboleths with respect to the operations of the railroads and their rate structures. and so forth. as is true in respect of labor practices in so many aspects of the railroad industry. which we have been trying to rationalize for years. and the delay and the time it takes before filing a petition and getting action from the icc is again a critical aspect of this situation. i hope very much that the committee itself will look into this whole question of the contribution to the problem which the icc is making in its own operations--probably unwittingly. except for the basic internal practices of the icc and how it has operated for years in respect of the railroads and the health of the railroads. the senator from arkansas has raised a pertinent inquiry. it may very well be that we can operate the railroads in the way we have been operating them i k egh about that system  to want to see a breakdown. but in my judgment. we are asking the railroads of the country under private enterprise to carry an impossible task. that is why we organized railpax. whatever may be the objections to it. at least it is going at the central issue involved. and we may have to go further than that. we can shrink from the possibility that much of our railroad mileage may have to be taken over and operated in some governmental or quasigovernmental form. i would strongly urge that we insist that this question be analyzed and studied. and that the congress be briefed on it. and that we do  shrink from those decisions. especially for those senators and representatives who are the most heavily interested in seeing the private enterprise viable and successful. there is hing more certain to break it down. to damage that system more. than failure. there is hing that will help it more than success. i think that this is a very serious case in point. and we should learn the lessons from this particular crisis which we face today. i thoroughly agree with the senator from. rhode island that there is hing whatever we can do about this crisis except to pass the bill. so that i hope the senate will pass it.
. this bill provides for the efficient disposal and recycling of junked and abandoned automobiles. there are in this country roughly 9 million cars that will go out of service this year. and of that number. 15 percent. or about 1.300.000. will simply be abandoned. right here in washington. cars are abandoned at the rate of about 1.000 a month. and in my own city of new york. the rate is 1.000 a week. these numbers are cumulative. the cars are going into the woods and onto vacant lots. and they are an eyesore and a hazard. nevertheless they are also a challenge to a society which prides itself on its ability to generate techogical solutions to its problems.
. the national academy of sciences. the national academy of engineering. and the port of new york authority are all to be commended for their participation in the recent report released by the environmental study board of the academies on the uses of jamaica bay. the port authority especially is to be commended for its decision to request expert and impartial advice on this vital question and for its willingness to abide by the decision reached by the outside study group. the academies made a thorough examination of the problem of extension of the runways and their recommendations covered all major aspects of the problem. they are against extending the j.f.k. runways. the report makes several interesting suggestions regarding present airport congestion due to poor scheduling and excessive use by general aviation. these recommendations deserve earnest consideration and action by all appropriate authorities. the report also recommends an immediate examination of prospective sites for a new regional jetport by the department of transportation and the states of new york and new jersey. this is one of the highest priorities for public bodies in the new york area. most importantly. the report makes many recommendations concerning the environmental problem of jamaica bay and the surrounding population areas. these include completion of the sewage treatment facility at spring creek and other facilities to keep raw sewage from being discharged into the bay during heavy rainfalls. cessation of dredging operations in the bay. and reexamination with a view toward halting the hurricane barrier project planned by the corps of engineers for the bay. the report also makes several important recommendations with regard to se pollution which i believe should be given immediate consideration by the department of transportation. this includes the speededup development of a new quiet engine to be put into new airplanes by 1975. and the use of acoustically treated engines in all present aircraft. according to the report this could very materially cut down on the se affecting those residents living in the j.f.k. airport area. the report also makes important recommendations as to the recreational facilities for the community. however. i disagree with its conclusion that much of jamaica bay should  be included within the proposed gateway national recreation area. as one who has been greatly interested in and an advocate of the gateway project. i feel that the report is  on sound ground when it recommends that the city keep much of the jamaica bay area and develop it on its own as a recreation area. the city already has indicated that it would like to see that area included in the gateway project and does  have the financial resources to develop the area to the extent needed. thus i believe the area would benefit more in the long run if it is included in the gateway project.
may i say to the senator from west virginia that i was actually on the subway car when the bells rang ending the period for the transaction of morning business. i had understood that that period would last from 11:45 to 12:15. 1 have a witness on the stand waiting for me to come back . if those are  extenuating circumstances. i do  k what are.
 the necessary authority to deal with the consequences of what in effect will be a national rail stoppage. i just wish to annce this to the senate because this resolution will pose the question of what we do in the next 30plus days should that eventuality overwhelm us.
i would say that my colleague from virginia speaks in the high tradition that he has himself established and that his family name implies. i think we simply have to see what. happens. i have suggested a way in which someone may be vested with theauthority during the recess. let us re-. member that power on earth can put 600.000 men back to work who do  want to work. railroad workers have shown real patriotism. matter how angry they may have been at their conditions. or at the frustration of  being successful in collective bargaining. they have traditionally responded when we have called. and i believe that it can be effective to give this authority for a very short time to the president. as i say. it can be effective. it is  necessarily the optimum. but we will have to judge. all of us and the president. on the basis of what we face next week. as to whether what would be a rather reluctant decision for so many members has to be made. my position was to find something which would seize the appropriate comnittee of the subject. and i believe this resolutionas i believe -the senator from virginia will be satisfied when he reads itwill seize the appropriate committee of the subject. beyond that. i simply can state.
. i join my other colleagues in great appreciation to the committee which facilitates many of the projects in my state which are critically important and will be helpful. i wish to call special attention to the $80.000 recommended to close the new york harbor for the collection and removal of drift. it was originally authorized in the 1970 omnibus rivers and harbors bill. this project is the end result of 8 years of effort and support by the states of new york and new jersey. and the city of new york and the new york port authority. it is as prominent an example as exists in the country of what needs to be done to deal with an ecological situation so long neglected. we have 2.000 abandoned hulks and piers on the mud flats around the harbor of new york. as this is the leading port of entry to our country. it is an eyesore as well as a great danger to navigation. and a great danger to the city. we hope very much to remedy the situation. obviously. this cleanup. standing alone. especially if more structures are abandoned all the time. will  do the job. so we express the hope very much that the justice department. in conjunction with the army corps of engineers. will enforce the 1899 refuse act which empowers the federal government to prosecute owners of deteriorating piers and other rotting shoreline structures that do  keep their property in good repair. this should help us to control the situation in the future. with the grants  authorized and the beginning of the financing. we are extremely hopeful that this will have great results. we hope very much that the office of management and budget. appreciating the broad congressional support for this particular program. will allow us to go ahead. first. on the ground of urgent necessity in the port and. second. to improve in so critical a place a measure of the environment and the quality of its water resources and the need to revitalize the waterfront. i also express my great appreciation to the senator from mississippi and the senator from th dakota and the members of the committee and their staffs for the inclusion of $1.000.000 for a study of long island sound. this is something which i have been interested in for some time and we certainly need to take affirmative steps to alleviate pollution in the sound. the committees action is a welcome step in that direction.
the senate passage of legislation establishing the gateway national recreation area is an historic step in the process of making available urban parks to serve our vital metropolitan centers. the future benefit to new york state and the nation from this project are inestimable. this legislation is a combination of the nixon administrations bill. s. 1852. and s. 1193. the bill introduced by me together with senators buckley and williams. i believe the senate interior committee has done a fine job in expediting the measure through the senate. recreation areas are among our most precious assests and as the population of this country continues to grow. these recreation areas become even more valuable to those who wish to escape. albeit for a time. from our urban areas where 70 percent of the population lives. unfortunately. there are relatively few beaches and recreation areas near great population centers. and those that are within reasonable distance are taxed to the fullest extent. anyone who has seen the beaches at coney islandor at jones beachon a hot summer day will get a vivid picture of what it means for the millions who try to use limited facilities. this is why the gateway national recreation area is so important to the new york metropolitan region and indeed for the whole country. approximately 15 million people live in the new york metropolitan area and this population is expected to grow to 30 million by the year 2000. it is estimated that 20 million people are within 2 hours driving distance of the gateway recreation area. because of the proximity of such a large share of americas population. gateway is expected to accommodate more visitors than are  served by the six existing national seashores. because of the fact that many people living within reach of the gateway do  have automobiles and because it is important  to encourage too much automobile traffic in the recreation area. it will be vital to develop adequate mass transportation to carry people back and forth to the recreation area. without this transportation the recreation area will  have meaning for many in the new york metropolitan area. especially those residents living in the ghettos who should be encouraged to come out and enjoy the recreation area. i would hope that maximum use would be made of the existing subway systems and that this will be augmented by special bus systems and ferry systems which can carry large numbers of people to the various recreation areas within the project. i think that the most important feature of this mass transportation should be its low cost to the public so that large numbers of people. especially lowincome people. will be able to enjoy the recreation area. this project offers us a unique opportunity to establish a recreation area that will serve more people than any other area that could be developed in the nation. it will enable many who would have chance to get near a beach and water to avail themselves of such an opportunity. it is important that gateway be approved by the congress as soon as possible so this critical project can be implemented.
. the final argument was the best. the senator from connecticut has put it very well. seventy percent of the american people live in the cities. do we hear anything about the great crisis in highways or do we hear about the great crisis in the cities. the cities are sagging and being destroyed. one of the great reasons is their great need for improved mass transit. here is $350 million. it is a windfall for the highway trust fund. a large amount of those funds has been "impounded" in a sense. too. in that there is a favorable balance left each year. yet we begrudge $350 million to go to the cities for mass transit. it does  make any sense. one wants to k who is robbing whom. to paraphase the senator from georgia . this is a windfall. if there is going to be a windfall. certainly the people who need it most are the 70 percent of the population that is taking the worst beating in the country.
. this title is most unwise. it will work out regressively and unhappily for our ecoy. why do we have a big bulge in the adverse balance of payments. as senator fulbright said. it is  only the other guys fault. we have an imbalance of $2 billion because american people travel abroad. and they spend $2 billion more than those who travel here. but try to get $5 million out of congress for the u.s. travel servicei have tried it. right at this desk. and i have failed miserablyto promote travel to the united states. we have also tried to cut our military expenditures in southeast asia in the foreign aid bill. then we complain that they and they alone are making our imbalance. are they making our people come there. or are we failing to get their people to come here. this is crucial: look at what americans think of our situation.  foreigners. they are pouring money out of here. they are pouring shortterm money out of here to the tune of about $7 billion a year. that is one primary reason why we have an imbalance in payments. they are expressing a lack of confidence in our ecoic maturity. and we are proving it to them if we adopt this kind of provision. i hope very much that. buttressed by my chairman--and i never heard him make a better speech on this subjectwe will defeat this provision.
i think i failed. while recognizing the fine initiative and position taken by the senator from rhode island in this matter. to state that we must . of course. overlook what the majority leader has just ed so very carefully. that is the role of the executive department and of the president in negotiating this treaty and  submitting it for our approval. it is an important element of the administrations policy to come to agreements respecting limitations on nuclear weaponry. and when one is obtained. naturally. it comes as a very satisfying development to those of us who are very hopeful that salt may mark the end of the burgeoning arms race in the nuclear field. as we express our appreciation of the senators very fine role with respect to this matter. we must also at the same time call attention to the achievement of the president and his administration in bringing about the negotiation of this treaty. it can be a milestone along the road which we also fervently wish to travel. and help begin to reverse the tide of pyramiding nuclear armament. our defense budget. of which nuclear arms form a big element is  well over $80 billion as estimated by the president. these expenditures inhibits so much which is constructive on land and sea. for the future of mankind. i am sure senator pell feels as we do about the role of the president in this matter. we served together as delegates at the u.n.. and he made his special care. in that representation this special activity in the development of this treaty. to very fine effect. i think. in all propriety. we must e and praise the role of the president in the negotiation and submittal of this treaty.
s impoundingget something for operating subsidies. but. that hope is so vain and the problems of the municipalities so dire that we simply must come in with this amendment and set up a specific authorization for the purpose of dealing with operating subsidies for mass transit systems. this committee deals  only with housing but also with authorizations which have  been expanded to deal with urban affairs. on urban affairs. aside from housing and securitythat is. fire and policethere is hing more urgent than transportation. the senate has heard time and again comparisons of how many automobiles are crowding the ribbons of road. on which we spend billions and billions of dollars. and how difficult it is to get a few hundred million dollars for mass transit though it serves the major taxpaying sources of the country. the big cities. with 70 percent to 80 percent of the population of the united states living in the metropolitan areas which are covered by the urban mass transit bill. it is absolutely indispensable for the nation that they be sustained because "you aint seen hin yet" when it comes to traffic jams all around the country if more systems should go by the board. the history of deterioration is alarming. on a strict costbenefit basis. the building of roads costs anywhere i believe from $1 million to $5 million per mile and buttresses existing mass transit systems. there is simply question that the infinitely better break for the united states and the american taxpayer is in the mass transit field. the deterioration is simply unbelievable. in 1950 there were 17 billion annual -riders on mass transit systems.
the president would have the right to construe his power to act under paragraph 1 of section 3 "to repel an armed attack upon the united states. its territories and possessions." to include an attack on a u.s. ship the ground that the attack of the ship is an attack on u.s. soil. although it may be on the high seas.
if it were a ship of a foreign registry. then the president could act under paragraph 3 "to protect while evacuating citizens and nationals of the united states." and so on on the ground that whatever country the ship is registered in was also its -soil. and that this paragraph applies because "such citizens and nationals are present with the express or tacit consent of the government of such country and are being subjected to a direct and imminent threat to their lives. either sponsored by such government or beyond the power of such government to control." that language is on page 8 of the bill.
i think that if the american citizen were in imminent danger of his life. the concept of getting him out of that danger would constitute a situation. matter whether he was on land or on a foreign ship at sea. the meaning of the phrase is  the citizen is in a position where he should be and can be evacuated. including from a foreign country. and including a ship of that country which is. for all practical purposes. the soil of that country.
there are many steps a president could take. especially diplomatic. if the citizen is in danger for his life. the troops might be used under the terms of subsection (3). we stated "to protect while evacuating." in other words. if the citizen is in imminent. mortal danger. what do we do. we try to get him off the ship or in a secure position so that he may come off ultimately. secure in body. and so on. generally. of course. this would be done by diplomatic means.  by sending in the marines. in my judgment that is fully covered here. if drastic. last resort action has to be taken involving use of our armed forces. but this is really a rather farout hypothetical case. there are international conventions about piracies and hijacking at sea. and in the air.
i think the concept there is to use the minimum amount of force required for the purpose of evacuation or "rescue". for example. let us say a u.s. crewman is on a foreign ship and there is imminent danger of his being killed. and he was sought to be evacuated. the idea is. first. to give the mandate that he is to be gotten off the ship. it might be necessary to take some far more comprehensive action. but the point is the thrust of the section would be where a citizen of the united states gets in trouble. the first preference would be to evacuate him. whether it is on a ship or in a country. rather than to go in and subjugate that country. using the excuse that the citizen is in danger. the president is certainly  obliged. under subsection (3). to send in the troops. rather he is authorized to do so in defined situations. president johnson sent 20.000 troops into santo domingo  many years ago and the cover used there was that he was protecting our nationals. . what we would be saying. assuming congress agreed to this subsection. is that we approve the president going in when his judgment meets the criteria but that the thrust and organization of the enterprise should be to evacuate as rapidly as possible and  to protect them on the spot. so that for practical purposes we are taking possession of the country. we are making a decision where the best interests of the united states are served by evacuating a citizen from a country rather than staying there on the ground and using that as the reason to stay in that country. perhaps if this had been the law the history in the santo domingo situation might have been different. maybe you could  take the action and as rapidly as possible. it would include the fact that 20.000 troops would have to stay there because conditions did  permit us to take the action. that is  ruled out by this definition. but the definition puts an obligation on the president that the purpose of his expedition. the oneline directive he gives. is to evacuate u.s. nationals as rapidly as possible. but circumstances may prevent that from being "immediately" and that does  prevent our troops from going there and staying there if there is other way. but it is  to confirm their presence in that country indefinitely.
. in answer to that i would say we consider professor moore is wrong on that because section 3. paragraph 2 states specifically. "to repel an armed attack against an armed force located outside the united states." that does  seek to base jurisdiction on the definition of where it is. it bases it negatively. if it is outside the united states the response can be immediate. so in straits. territorial waters. or anything else. the american ship would be outside the united states. so i state the response would be immediate under section 3. paragraph 2.
. we should  have our planes land there. i ask every senator to ask himself if. when he is in a plane at an airport in amsterdam. paris. or some other city and he looks out the window and sees a plane there from a country that has been responsible for murders. whether that pleases him. do we have any right to act in a manner that concerns our survival. it is that principle upon which the amendment is based. i hope that the senate adopts the amendment
i understand. if i may have 2 minutes. i want to just say that we understand what the senator is doing in forwarding the whole housing program. he was kind egh to ask me how i felt about it. we simply understand the greater good which is involved. i wish to express to him my deep concern about the situation of the mass transit provisions which were contained in the senate housing bill and the public works bill. and we  understand ther is some problem with the provision that we had here. especially for operating expenses for mass transit systems. which was stricken out on a point of order in the other body. and i wanted to get some expression of opinion from the senator from alabama as to where he sees us going in the mass transit situation.
. a matter that is of great concern to me and. indeed. to the whole civilized world are the barbaric acts of skyjacking and terrorism that continue to jeopardize the safety of all of mankind which travels by air. on september 8. i addressed the senate on the subject of the convention of the legal subcommittee of the international civil aviation organization. convened in washington at that time to consider a united statescanada draft proposal that would require suspension of all air service with any nation that did  punish or extradite airplane hijackers and terrorists. i ask unanimous consent that this statement be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. following the icao convention. i expressed to secretary of state rogers my concern for the need of the civilized world to put a stop to these barbaric acts of skyjacking and terrorism. i have recently received a response from the department of state. which gives uptodate information on the various international efforts on several fronts that are being pursued effectively to deal with the threat of skyjacking and terrorism. i ask unanimous consent that this correspondence with secretary rogersreleased with the permission of the department of statebe printed in the record.
. i ask that there be included as part of my remarks the letter i recently received from the national highway traffic safety administration relative to the national transportation safety boards safety recommendation h7230. which pertains to schoolbus body construction. the report referred to. which emanates from the congers. n.y.. accident to which i referred. is also included with my remarks here.
 of the union. which fortified the committees judgment on findings of fact. we had mr. ingraham who directs the railroad activities of the department of transportation. who testified on the nature of the emergency and the fact that it would be a fullblown emergency within a few days. and the committee could  see the likelihood of anything happening to change that situation and felt it could  wait until the catastrophe actually happened. under all the circumstances i think it is very clear that we have to continue this railroad in operation. the terms referred to in the resolution relate to the theast but i believe it is appropriate legislative history to state that we intend that term to mean the whole area primarily served by the penn central system. i wish to ask the senator from new jersey if he would agree with that interpretation.
. this freight car utilization legislation was passed last year by the senate on a vote of 81 to 0. but was  acted upon by the house. clearly. this body recognized then that we are confronted with a serious problem. i urge that this problem be given the attention and the equitable treatment which it deserves by tabling senate resolution 59 and i urge that senators give the most earnest and sympathetic attention to the freight car utilization bill when it is presented for consideration here in the senate.
in one of them. i was the proponent. i am delighted to see the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. who also is active on the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. handling this amendment . i can begin to emphasize the critical importance of it. for financial reasons. for ecological reasons. for traffic reasons. as a cosponsor of this amendment i commend the senator from new jersey for his action in bringing this amendment to the senates attention. the time for responsible congressional action is  if the present picture of our mass transit systems is as it must to change from one of rising fares. increasing deficits. and declining ridership to that of a financially sound and viable transportation operation. i am sure the issues embodied in this amendment are well understood by the senate. we must act decisively  in the first session of the 93d congress to see approval of the overdue f..deral responsibility to improve the beleaguered financial state of this nations mass transit systems. the fact that more and more citizens are traveling greater distances to and from their employment each year. and the continued deterioration of the nations environment. in particular the urban environment. where today 67 metropolitan areas have air quality threatening the health of their citizens due to autorelated air pollutants. one can overstate the urgency of the present situation. to bring effective assistance. the responsibility for funding our mass transit systems must come from the federal government and from state and local governments to the extent they are able to do so. the services provided by a comprehensive urban transportation system benefit  only the riders. but additionally the ecoy and the social life of the region. it is only through planned and assured financial support of mass transit from government. can urban mass transportation begin to meet the service needs of the future. this amendment would provide an equitable federal program to accomplish this task. the major elements of the amendment briefly stated are as follows: it amends the urban mass transportation act of 1964 by authorizing the secretary of transportation to make grants or loans to state and local public bodies for payment of operating expenses incurred by a mass transportation system. these grants would be obligated on a twothird federal. onethird local matching basis and funded by the allocation of $800 million over the next 2 fiscal years. also. the amendment provides an additional $3 billion in contract authority to sustain the urban mass transportation acts capital grant program through fiscal year 1977. the costsharing formula for this program would be changed from twothirds. onethird to 90 percent federal. 10 percent local. this new ratio for funding mass transit capital improvements coincides with the present federal interstate highway financing ratio. in the tristate metropolitan region of new york city. encompassing 19 million people in the states of new york. new jersey. and connecticut. the deficit problem is overwhelming. in a recent report submitted by the tristate govers special commission on financing mass transportation. mass transit operating deficits for the region in the period. 1972 to 1985. were estimated to be $13.6 billion. this means an average of $1 billion annually will be required for operations alone. in the same period. the region will need at least $7.3 billion to finance capital outlay for an average of $560 million in annual outlay. for localities and states to meet the operational requirements of mass transit systems. new solutions are urgently needed. it is  up to the congress to seize the initiative before it. the more than 70 percent of the nations people who live in urban areas can longer suffer from crippling and decaying mass transit and commuter systems and can bear continued delay over needed federal assistance. . we are subsidizing airlines. railroads. ships. housing. and numerous other programs. but i k of subsidization more indispensable to the life and environment of the increasingly city dwelling american people than this kind of buttressing which is called for by this amendment.
. i am with the senator very strongly. i can buttress the testimony from our biggest city. i think it is a very fine and just solution. i testified in its favor. i hope very much the amendment carries. i feel certain that senators share a mutual goal for a more effective federalaid highway program. although perhaps achieved through different means. the major issue to be confronted in this years highway bill is whether s. 502 provides a sufficiently broad range of options necessary to solve the pressing problems of our urban transportation systems. urban transportation problems. highway and transit. are inextricably interrelated and must be viewed as such. since the creation of the highway trust fund in 1956. many localities and states have built highways because of available federal funds and did  consider mass transit systems. this was true whether or  highways were the better solution to the localitys particular transportation problems. for the local officials of densely populated areas. this lack of investment choice led to more highway construction and with it the problems of congestion. social. ecoic. and environmental damage. presently this congress has the opportunity to alter the restricted options available to our urban communities in the planning of their transportation priorities. this can be achieved by a limited opening of the highway trust fund insofar as it deals with urban problems for other uses than highway oriented development. under the muskiebaker amendment. which i have cosponsored. $850 million allocated to the urban systems would be made available at the option of state and local officials. for use on bus. rail. and highway systems. rural road funds would be involved and. of course.  one single mass transit system would be mandated. local and state officials would merely be granted greater flexibility in the use of funds already earmarked for urban "transportation" programs. this figure of $850 million represents a very reasonable sum when compared to the over $6 billion authorized in s. 502 in the same fiscal year. of importance here is the concept of providing the option to use the money in a manner consistent with locally decided urban transportation needs and objectives. financing mass transit is an expensive proposition when confronted with the spiraling operating deficits and large capital outlay needed to maintain mass transit systems. this view was clearly expressed by witnesses testifying on s. 502 before the senate roads subcommittee. there was definite accord toward the goal of securing longterm funding for mass transit though little agreement as to the methods of accomplishing that goal. one alternative proposed consisted of increased taxes in support of a separate mass transit trust fund. the interrelationship between mass transit and highways i believe prohibits separate revenue bases for each mode if our urban areas are to transport people and goods with maximum efficiency. i k of single proposition more contrary to the administration view at this time than new taxes. which would be required to support a separate mass transit trust fund. because there is single solution to urban transportation problems throughout the country. a viable policy would be the consolidation.  the proliferation of existing federal programs. efforts must be taken in making the revenues currently allocated to urban transportation programs go much further. this can be initiated by granting state and local officials greater flexibility in the use of their shares of the highway trust fund. for this reason i strongly support the muskiebaker amendment before the senate today. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony on this bill before the committee be placed in the record.
. on march 24. 1972. a loaded schoolbus was struck by a train at congers. n.y.. resulting in the tragic death of five boys and injury to more than a score of other youngsters. those involved. the children and their families. are my constituents. but. in a larger sense they could have been the children or grandchildren or constituents of any member of this body. for the congers tragedy was but one of more than 47.000 schoolbus accidents in the nation. with some 40 percent of all american schoolchildren traveling to and from school each day by bus. but by the grace of god the harrowing experience of the community of congers could have occurred elsewhere in the nation. the children of congers were our children. i am heartened that the commerce committee is studying the matter of schoolbus safety and will be holding hearings on my bill. s. 611. and the bill introduced by senator nelson. s. 847. of which i am a cosponsor. legislation which will hopefully result in increased security for the 20 million students riding the nations schoolbuses. as the parent of a daughter who was once injuired in a schoolbus mishap. i look forward to the time when there will be repetition of the tragedy which occurred at congers and similar tragedies which have occurred elsewhere in our country. the fact that schoolbuses have a better safety record than other forms of transportation should  deter a concentration of effort to assure as perfect a safety record as can be attained. for the children who travel in schoolbuses. unlike passengers in other vehicles. do so  out of individual choice  are they able to refuse to ride because the vehicle is substandard or the driver ill prepared. their wellbeing is our responsibility. they are all our children. the current issue of readers digest carries a chilling recounting of the congers tragedy. "bus crash." by floyd miller. the fact that this article appeared in a foremost national publication underlines the fact that what occurred in congers was  merely a local incident but a national tragedy. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
the senator is very kind. however. that is  always the case. i would hope that was the case. however. with this amendment. we will undertake to furnish to the senator from west virginia background material which will enable him to hold this particular item in conference. also. i wish to e that. with respect to the addition which the committee made to reactivate 13 coast guard search and rescue stations. that $922.000 additional to the $600.000 provided by a floor amendment in the house would enable the coast guard to fully reactivate the 13 stations at a total cost of $1.522.000. one of the problems of the state of new york is this question of full reactivation. we have two stations at galloo island and sodus point. and i gather that when the committee says in the report that it intends the coast guard stations in question shall be made truly and fully operative on a fulltime basis that the objective of the appropriation is a full activation rather than just the necessary appropriations. the committee is giving them what it understands to be required for a reactivation. is that correct. it is important to make this point because the coast guard had indicated it would  operate the station on a fulltime basis after the house had added the $600.000 on the floor. which they thought would do the job.
 and the congress. this excellent report discusses in detail the travel needs and resources of the united states. and addresses the many problems that confront world tourism. i commend the report to all of my colleagues. for that reason i ask unanimous consent that the recommendations of the commission be printed in the record. so that each of us may have an opportunity to review and study the results of this important study.
we hoped before that it would be only for 30 days or some short period of time. here it is october. and what we see down the road is a rather long stretch for continuing resolutions. so we decided to seize the situation by the forelock. as they did in the house. and try to deal with it.
. first. i would like to express the thanks of my state. joining my colleague . to the senator from west virginia and to my colleague . i have had the privilege of working with the senator from west virginia in other connections. i express my thanks to them for having worked this out in a way that is acceptable to my colleague . and therefore i am confident it will be acceptable to our state and to gover rockefeller. also. i value greatly the redemption of the "good faith promise"--i use those words in quotes--of the united states that if states are activist egh to help themselves. they will  suffer from that fact. we had a bad lesson. which we took a long time getting over in new york. when we financed the great road system called the thruway. and then found it extremely difficult to get reimbursement. which other states had obtained. in this particular case the shoe was on the other foot. our state could have gotten reimbursement. but it would have. in the judgment of the committee. taken an excess amount of funds that were available.  the state of new york is able to handle its financing so that if it has a feeling the payments will be forthcoming. it is manageable. i am very appreciative of the assurances given both as to the authorizations being adequate for the purpose and the allocations being fairly made. so that states which have had the foresight will  suffer because of their foresight. this is especially true in this matter. which does  relate to roads which have a fixed locale. though they be used in interstate travel. but relates to the heritage and ecology of our national heritage in terms of water supplies which are evailable to 1she whole country. i am in a lot of things here. but one can be in everything in a state as great as my own. so i rise to express my appreciation for the fine service to our state rendered by my colleague and for the line service to the nation. because we want to encourage states to do what new york has done. which is evidenced in the statesmanlike approach to this matter by the senator from west virginia as chairman of the committee.
 some resources with which to implement the declared policy of the act. which one has amended and one has sought to challenge. it seems to me that where you have. therefore. a pattern of emergency. a pattern of use. which is 10toi. according to the figuresthat is. you get 200 miles per passenger out of a gallon of gasoline used in a bus and only roughly 13 miles in a similar gallon used in a private car mostly occupied by one personit seems to me that. under the emergency. the senate at least ought to reiterate its position respecting the highway trust fund. this time standing with it. because it is fully justified on an emergency basis where we have made a compromise very much against our own interest. the senator from new jersey was the original authorand i joined himof almost this measure. in the same words. in the senate. it passed the senate. but we could  make it stick because we needed a highway bill  we are in a great emergency and the senate ought to reassert its position in the way argued by the senator from california.
. may i e that these questions are particularly applicable to the delaware & hudson railroad. one of the few that is still operating a private enterprise railroad in the state. i ask the chairman to state whether that is his interpretation as well.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to set in motion a program to eliminate hazards at railroadhighway grade crossings which are located on established school bus routes. this would fulfill recommendation  1 of the national transportation safety board on the tragic school bustrain accident which occurred at congers. n.y.. last year which cost the lives of five students and resulted in injury to 40 other youngsters. the bill is directed to establishment of safeguards at railroadhighway grade crossings on public roads and highways which are  on the federalaid system. it directs that  less than 5 percent of the funds appropriated for the federalaid safer roads demonstration program be directed to elimination of hazards at such grade crossings with special consideration to be given to the protection of those crossings over which school buses regularly pass. the proposal amends the section of the federal aid highway act of 1973 which provides funds for the federalaid safer roads demonstration program in which allocations are to be made for improved highway marking and signs. elimination of roadside obstacles. elimination of hazards at railroadhighway grade crossings. and to correct highhazard locations. the need for action on those railroadhighway grade crossings which are  on the federalaid system is illustrated by the fact that nearly 60 percent of all motor vehicle train grade crossing accidents occur at crossings located off the federalaid system. by directing this effort with specific emphasis on those crossings utilized by school bus routes. we move. in my opinion. to the most critical area of need. it is here that if we prevent an accident we undoubtedly will save lives. for we still are too far behind in the development of much safer schoolbuses than those  in use and similar to the one involved in the tragic accident in con-
. in other respects the appropriation committee has been very careful in taking care of many matters which do  involve a lot of money. but which have been left hanging. i would like to call a matter to the attention of the senate again which i think the senate should be aware of. and that is the united states travel service. here we have. i believe. as much as a $2.5 billion gap between the amount spent abroad by all americans who go abroad and the amount which is spent by foreign tourists here. yet our appropriation for inducing travel to the united states. which should be the greatest attraction on earth for many reasons. comes to something in the area of $11 or $12 million. and even that is cut and cut and cut. withstanding the very favorable costbenefit ratio. so it is particularly gratifying. i say to the senator from arkansas. that this committee has restored here in the senate what the house of representatives denied. a supplemental appropriation of $2.3 million. i mention it. as i say. because it is  a great deal of money. but we should understand. this kind of situation. where the emous basic imbalance for us in our balance of payments is almost accounted for entirely in many years by the imbalance in the exchange and travel between ourselves and foreign countries. yet to sell america in terms of being a travel attraction. we are always so careful about a few million dollars when the costtobenefit ratio is 100 to 1. finally. i would also like to commend the committee for following the house committee in recommending that the corps of engineers use $60.000. from available funds. to initiate the beach erosion portion of the east rockaway inlet to rockaway inlet and jamaica bay. new york project. this is an emergency and needs to proceed as soon as possible so the beaches in that area can be saved from certain destruction.
i am delighted to have this colloquy. i shall recommend to the senator from new jersey . who is the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. that the committee hold hearings on this whole question of severance and what should be its connection with age and what should be its connection with retraining. for example. payment of moving expenses. which is an interesting idea. also. what should be its relationship with adjustments. such as work rule adjustments. which is again a hard nut in the railroad business and which has  been encountered nearly to the degree it will be.  that we have a pattern by which people can be compensated for whatever they have been forced to give up. finally. i would like to point out a precedent. in order to deal with railroad strikes. we did with legislation pass on certain agreements which had been arrived at by collective bargaining. that was a precedent in an emergency. but it was a precedent and this. too. is an emergency. although of a different kind. i k that we want to conclude this debate. again i think it is a creative beginning. and this is a well thought out report. i think that the whole country must be grateful to senators hartke. beall. cook. and all other senators who participated.
. i would like to call to the attention of my colleagues an editorial appearing in the washington post last thursday. january 24. highlighting the need for more and better rail transportation service. since the energy crisis began. amtrak has been deluged with an overabundance of passengers and requests.  only has amtrak been unable to provide seats for all the potential passengers on established routes. but amtrak has also been unable to provide any service at all to areas in great need of rail service. foremost among these areas are recreation communities that are  within easy automobile commuting distance of a large metropolitan area. large portions of our country are heavily dependent on recreation and tourism for their ecoic survival. rail passenger service is essential for many of these areas if they are to withstand the effects of the immediate fuel shortages. but i would  be speaking out for longterm commitments to rail service if i believed the effects of the fuel shortage are short term only. even if we can develop selfsufficiency in energy within a decade it will be necessary for us to make some major changes in our lifestyle and habits. one of the easiest methods for change is to employ mass transportation for travel to recreation areas. areas where in the past we would drive to. leave our car in the parking lot for the duration of our stay. and then drive home. our nation presently has one of the least developed systems of rail passenger service in the western world. it is high time we began to correct this deficiency with a major federal commitment to such service. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial referred to be printed in its entirety in the record.
. the newly created rail services planning office of the interstate commerce commission has begun hearings. pursuant to the regional rail reorganization act of 1973. to restructure and revitalize the freight and passenger rail service system in the theast and midwest. the hearings primary purpose is to receive comment on the secretary of transportations rail service report. which contains the dot recommendations for achieving a profitable system. that report recommends massive abandonment of branch lines and local service. in new york. it classifies 1.875 miles. or 34 percent of all rail track. as potentially excess. this should be compared to the report of the new york department of transportation which concluded that 500 miles of trackage was unprofitable. * the difference is in methodology. but . the transportation needs of the people r of the theast can be determined by 3 statistical analysis alone. they must be developed from a host of factorsfactors that the dot report did  consider. among those factors are the energy t and environmental advantages of railroad transportation. the increasing need e for passenger service. th. ecoic effect on individual communities and railroad employees. and the importance of competition. the u.s. railway association must prepare a preliminary system plan based on the dot report and the results of the icc hearings. i believe that sufficient testimony will be produced at the hearings to merit retention of many of the lines and rightsway recommended as excess. i hope that all affected parties will contribute to this process so that the planning office will have a complete and accurate information base for its comprehensive report. in my testimony before the commission. i stressed the importance of the factors mentioned above and urged the planning office to consider each of them in depth before making its recommendations. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i believe there are some very substantive objections to this particular amendment. too. may 7. 1974 coid the thing that bothers me very deeply is this idea that after a violation is discovered. and that is what the amendment states. the person violating may come in for a variance. that is hardly the way to run a railroad or to administer a law. in addition there is a stay of the order of enforcement which is automatically built into the amendment unless the secretary rejects the application as frivolous. but the word "frivolous" is a very strong word and i can hardly think of an objection made in good faith which could be rejected as frivolous. i think the secretary would find himself in deep trouble with the courts if we passed this. if he tried that. that is one imperfection. aher imperfection is the matter of penalties. one of the big compromises in this act was the idea of serious and serious violations. one calling for mandatory penalty and the other calling for discretionary penalty. the amendment simply makes serious violations subject to discretionary penalty. and eliminates altogether the question of penalty for serious violationssimply strikes the section. it seems to me that would get us into a hassle that could delay the bill for months if we ever took this amendment. one thing that the senator from colorado is absolutely right about. and which the senator from ohio
. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the rail passenger service amendments of 1974 be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. there being objeation. the bill was or/ _ered to be printed in the record. as follows: s. 3643 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "rail passenger service amendments of 1974." sec. 1. title ii of the rail passenger service act of 1970 is amended by inserting at the end thereof a new section as follows:
. the committee has cut the federal aviation administrations aviation and se pollution research budget request from $4.986.000 to $4.920.000. although i recognize the committees expertise on what level of funding can be efficiently utilized for this program in the 1975 fiscal year. and hence will  seek to amend the bill to restore the $66.000 that has been cut. i think it imperative that the congress express its displeasure with the speed at which the faa has implemented the aircraft se pollution control requirements of the se pollution control act of 1972. although some progress has been made. our aircraft se problem remains the most significant question in the entire field of se pollution. it severely impacts on over 7 million people who live in airport environments. many of those 7 million citizens are within my own state of new york. there are several possibilities for significant improvement in the immediate future. the committee in its report es the refan retrofit plan as one such possibility. the faa has also proposed a rulemaking on two segment instrument landing approaches. which if implemented would generate substantial se reductions in landing pattern impacted cxx- 1674part 20 areas and could be achieved immediately. in addition to this and other operational techniques that could be implemented. the faa should proceed expeditiously on its retrofit program investigations and rulemaking. so that all areas near airports will again become livable and free from the obtrusive invasions of aircraft se so commonplace today. i. therefore. implore the faa to utilize the funding appropriated today to achieve immediate results. rather than to continue to study and postpone and delay implementation of meaningful reform which was mandated by the congress over 3 years ago in the se pollution control act. for many of our citizens. the aircraft se problem is the most significant issue they face involving federal government authority. we can let those citizens down. the problem will  go away by inaction. it must be acted upon . by the faa as well as by the environmental protection agency.
. roger lewis. states in his report to the congress of 1973. that. "travel demand that had been anticipated by 1977 as a result of mal growth is with us ." but even with this unprecedented increase in demand. amtrak has neither the legislative commitment or direction which it so vitally needs to make rail service available to a greater number of people. currently only 1 percent of all intercity travel is via railroad. this comnares to 87 percent by private automobile. 10 percent by air. and 2 percent by bus. if we are to seriously attack the inefficiencies in energy utilization in the countryof which the transportation sector is the most blatant exampledramatic shifts in these percentages are essential and must be begun without further delay. yet existing law requires only one new train to be instituted each year. this rate of expansion must be increased and better directed by the congress. the rail passenger service act amendments that i introduce today primarily address two related aspects of amtrak service. they could pave the way for an efficient and realistic transportation alternative for millions that presently have rail passenger service at all and for millions more who. because of the inadequacy of the rail passenger system. can use amtrak service for their major transportation event each yeartheir vacation travel. it is startling that our national rail passenger system. as it is presently constituted. does  serve such cities as tulsa. okla.. and jersey city. n.j.. with populations greater than onehalf million. or the states of maine and south dakota. these and the many other omissions in the system must be corrected. my first amendment would pave the way for these services to be instituted. with the conditions appropriate to insuring that only truly necessary service will be commenced. and with the added benefit of saving the federal taxpayer money when these services are primarily for the benefit of a single state. it contains a major change in the federal commitment to rail passenger service where states or local transportation agencies want and need such service but can afford to institute it without substantial federal assistance. present law requires the state or locality to pay at least twothirds of the avoidable and capital costs. amtrak even has the right to deny service unless the state pays for all costs. in other mode of interstate transportation is the federal share so low. for all major road construction under the highway trust fund the federal share varies from 70 to 90 percent. federal airport development assistance varies from 50 to 80 percent of the costs involved. the house and senate passed versions of mass transit assistance would provide an 80percent federal share. my amendment would change the federal share of shared rail passenger service assistance to 662/3 percent. if this sharing provision is to have any utility whatsoever. and provide the impetus to expanding our national rail passenger system. the federal share must be on this level. the amendment would also authorize specific funds for this assistance. currently. any federal assistance under this section would have to come out of amtraks general appropriation. thereby potentially impairing service on other routes. this is obviously selfdefeating. and it is for this reason that amtrak has been so reluctant to institute any shared service. if a state or locality commits onethird of the needed funding. the federal government should stand ready to provide the balance for so necessary a service. i reaffirm the language on page 5 of the committee report. relating to amtraks obligations to provide shared service. these statements apply equally to my amendment. the new federalstate relationship would apply only to service instituted after the enactment of this legislation. and to service pursuant to contracts renegotiated after enactment. moreover. the proposed $10 million authorization which. by amtraks estimates. would cover the twothirds federal share for all planned and probable service. is  meant to deny the use of general appropriation for section 403 service if amtrak deems that appropriate. or if the authorized amount is  fully appropriated. but amtrak would  be required. although it would be authorized. to pay for section 403 service above and beyond the $10 million level for fiscal year 1975. this is the amount that amtrak presently considers necessary to fund renewed contracts and institution of probable new service. the $10 million fiscal year 1975 limitation is necessary to prevent substantial division of amtraks general appropriation if many states and localities request new service. if. in fact this occurs. i would expect that the 1976 amtrak authorization would carefully consider the need to expand the specific funding level for section 403 service. i would add that i fully expect. if this amendment is enacted. many states and localities to rethink their role in the rail passenger service field. and to propose significant and worthy routes that would provide rail service to many areas that presently have e. at this point i ask unanimous consent to include. at this point in the record. a table prepared by amtrak of the costs of service under section 403 and the additional funding that would be required by the amendment.
the second section of this amendment is directed to a more specific problem: the critical need to provide rail service to vacationers. this section would begin to put vacation travellers back on the railroads. which is a service as much needed by the travellers themselves as by our tourist and recreation industry. last winter saw the severe effects of the gasoline shortage on the tourist industry. hearings were held in the senate on the energy related problems of that industry. however. we also witnessed the tremendous savings in precious gasoline that can be effected by cutting back vacation travel by automobile. if these savings are to continue on any scalesavings that are critical to our energy independencevacationers must be provided with a reasonable alternative mode of transportation to recreation areas. such as national parks and shore and mountain resort regions. that alternative is clearly the passenger train. i propose a modest start toward that goal. first. the secretary of transportation shall study the need for such service. and identify the routes where potential for use is greatest. the amendment is limited to medium distance recreation service. although i k there is also a need for long distance service. but. it is generally held that rail passenger service demand is greatest for points 100 to 300 miles apart. people travelling shorter distances more often opt for the automobile. while longer distances bring out the time advantages of air travel. a few examples of service that could be provided pursuant to this section are new york city to the catskill mountains resort area. los angeles to las vegas. and boston to the new hampshire and vermont resort regions. the list could be endless. rightsofway and trackage lying idle with respect to passenger serviceexist on many such routes so the costs would be limited to facility improvement and equipment acquisition. the amendment requires only one recreation route to be instituted annually. and would  require this to begin until 1976. while i would prefer to see amtrak move faster. i recognize the reality of the passenger equipment shortage and the leadtime necessary to obtain new equipment. and i do  wish to see cars diverted from the basic system. where they are critically needed. this proposal is modest but provides a needed start toward the institution of substantial rail passenger service for vacation travelers. the final section calls for a study. by the department of transportation. on the need for rail passenger service from center cities to metropolitan airports. such service may or may  be properly perf ormed by amtrak. but a close look should be taken at the need for and costs of this type of service. and the role. if any. that the federal government should play. this study can adequately be undertaken by existing urban mass transit administration personnel. in coordination with the federal aviation administration and the department of transportation staff. . it is time we began to alter the transportation priorities that have led to our over dependence on the private automobile. last year. of the $28.2 billion in public fundings for transportation. only onefourth of 1 percent went to rail transportation. this compares with 86 percent for highways and 10 percent for air transportation. this past year has shown us that the rail passenger system is  dead. it is merely dormant. it is time we gave it some vitality. legislative initiative is required if rail passenger service is to become a realistic alternative mode of transportation to the private automobile for the majority of americans.
. this bill is the product of labormanagement negotiations directed by the congress itself. after long. hard. and statesmanlike bargaining. with concessions made on both sides. the bill they recommended is substantially the same as that embodied in the act we passed 3 weeks ago. i congratulate the parties for their effort as aher example of the harmonious labormanagement relations developing in the railroad industry. with feasible alternative in sight. we should vote to override the veto of the bill.
. it is time we began to alter the transportation priorities that have led to our overdependence on the private automobile. last year. of the $28.2 billion in public fundings for transportation. only onefourth of 1 percent went to rail transportation. this compares with 86 percent for highways and 10 percent for air transportation. this past year has shown us that the rail passenger system is  dead. it is merely dormant. it is time we gave it some vitality. although i do  view this as a cornerstone of national energy policy. measures such as these are necessary as adjuncts of a comprehensive and coordinated energy strategy if it is to succeed. legislative initiative such as this is required if rail passenger service is to become a realistic alternative mode of transportation to the private automobile for the majority of americans. by mr. javits:
. i am addressing myself to that issue because in this instance. and in other instances. railroad financing. or any other kind of financing. may prove to be impossible unless we have some way of bringing any matter to a vote in this senate. to show its relevance and germaneness. we have just made it possible to vote on railroad financing in danger of railroad closing by voting cloture. therefore. in all respect to the chair and the senator from west virginia. it is very pertinent to address oneself under the rule of germaneness to the occasion on which this senate may. in a critical situation. enable itself to perform its duty. that is all that i am addressing myself to at this time.
is it germane to discuss the general issues of railroad financing or the ability to finance failing railroads. with a view toward the contingency that this represents a precedent. that there may be other failing railroads. with respect to which we also will have to come to a vote.
it is my understanding that during the quarter ending june 30. 1975. 250.000 workers will be in that condition. it is also expected that by the end of the yearalthough that is  relevant to this particular situationabout 1.5 million to 2 million workers will be in this situation. . . the reason i have brought this up on this bill is that it is the only vehicle which is going to be available to us for the next few month in order to express ourselves and act on policy. one way or the o ther. respecting this matter. i introduced a bill to this effects. 766which  has 27 sponsors. including me. seeking to effectuate this extension. except that that bill was  limited to payments up to june 30. 1975. the reason i propose this amendment. and again. if i may have senator longs attention-
. i think i have made it clear that i do it only so that the confereesthey might write in conditions about a suitable job. i do  kwould have a vehicle. that is my only reason for bringing it. otherwise we shall pass the dates by. the states will break on this. it will take a while when we get back to do something about it. therefore. the conferees may decide in their wisdom in the next few days that they want to do something about it in the next few days that they want to do something about it in this bill. it is the only vehicle available. so on that basis i would hope. because of the managers sympathy for the bill. as i feel we all do. that we might take it to conference with this understanding.
. is that in the state of new york we have obviously very different income situations from what exists generally throughout the united states. in new york. this amendment would be especially helpful to the urban development corporation. the udc. through its chairman. mr. ravitch. has been in conference with hud. through our new secretary. mrs. hills. and the result of that conference as yet has been indeterminate. that is. hud is interested in beingindeed. anxious to beof assistance in this matter but has  yet determined whether it can be done administratively. whether it takes an amendment to the law. and if either is the case. just what form the assistance they can render should take. therefore. i have discussed the situation with the mangers of the bill and i hope we can find it possible to take this matter to conference. it would be understood that the fate of the amendment in conference will depend upon the views of hud. but at least the vehicle will be there. so that if the conferees decide with hud that this is a desirable assistance. then they may do something with the amendment. if they do . if hud turns against it. or if the conferees decide that it is imprudent in the light of the resuilts of these discussions. they will drop it. i make that clear so that the conferees do  feel that they have been hooked into some amendment that will cause them problems. my purpose is solely to have a vehicle before the conferees. so that if relief is indicated. they will be in a position to give it.
that is one reason railroad rates are subject to icc approval. and the legislative history ought to be clear. there should be as an element of ratemaking. the addition of the added value brought about by this situation. i think that is a proper object of the legislative history.
i think it saves the best of the law by being pragmatic in that way. . i have had my say on what i believe very deeply. the only thing i hope to contribute in what i have said today is to perhaps awaken us to what we are in for if we go this route. in this setting todayit has been done beforei think it is a very. very unwise road for us to travel under modern conditions.
. i am pleased to join with senator williamms and senator schweier in sponsoring legislation to reform the railroad unemployment insurance program. the bill that we are introducing today has been worked out in coordination with the parties directly affected by the ruia programthe representatives of the employees who receive benefits. and the rail carriers who must pay for those benefits.
. let us wake up to just if we determine that additional acwhat this is all about. it is a small effort tions are needed. there are. in my judgon an emergency basis with a hair trig- ment. better ways than this bill to stimger criteria and a builtin determination ulate employment and increase producto do something instead of hing and tion. one alternative is the development we ought to at least support this as a of rapid mass transit systems and railmatter of simple equity. bed reconstruction which would create
there is judicial review in all these cases. even the little cases. if he wishes to invoke them. in our country. we always hear the argument that he has to defend in a suit. anybody can sue anybody. i was sued as attorney general of new york for $100 million. i suppose i have had lots of suits like that. people do  like what i do. so they sue me. i have to defend. that. again. is the penalty we pay for being americans. i do  see how to avoid all those difficulties by cutting the penalty in these matters so that it gets silly and the fellow just does  care. it is like a parking ticket. he will take a chance on parking where it is illegal and he will pay $10. but this covers dust or carciens in the air where it is very. very serious and i think it just can be done. i thank my colleague.
. if we could improve the trade picture. as to exchanges. this is a considerable encouragement. but a builtin limitation in the fact that hotel accommodations and transportation. even railroad transportation. certainly automobile transportation and air transportation. are extremely limited. i wish to say to many who are disappointed in  being able to get to the peoples republic as quickly as they would like. having applied. that really. these builtin limitations make it very difficult. if  impossible. to accommodate large numbers of tourists. as a matter of fact. we were surprised that there were quite so many americans. considering the paucity of facilities. the facilities. however. are by means bad. they are. by means. modern. anything that we are accustomed to in industrialized countries. they are tolerable. but they are extremely limited. we seek to encourage visits between their government officials and ours. we think that would be extremely helpful. again. we think that. sooner or later. the peoples republic will be seeking credit in this country for the purpose of expanding its tourism opportunities. and again. we should encourage it. i think that is a fairly general picture at least of their ecoy as we saw it.
i will tell senator helms i shall be just 1 minute. i have amendment. may i have the attention of the chairman of the agriculture and forestry committee. . in exercising the authorities conferred upon him by this title. is required to "take appropriate steps to assure that private trade channels are used to the maximum extent practicable. both with respect to sales from privately owned stock and with respect to sales from stocks owned by the commodity credit corporation." and. while there is  explicit language in title ii. it is my understanding that it has been the intent that private trade channels should be used whenever practicable with regard to that program as well. the voluntary agencies which participate in our title ii donation program have been permitted to use private freight forwarders for many years but the other major program sponsor of title ii activities. the world food program. has  been permitted to utilize a private freight forwarder. it seems reasonable that permitting the world food program to use a private forwarder could result in possible savings of u.s. tax money. i think a great deal of confusion over this issue could be eliminated if the chairman could clarify what i feel is the intent of this provision. and what has been repeatedly stated as u.s. policy in carrying out other foreign assistance activities. is it the chairmans understanding. then. that the mandate to utilize private trade channels whenever practicable. explicitly stated in section 103(e). is implicitly intended to cover the operations of the public law 480 program generally. including title ii.
it is my considered judgment. and i say this very advisedly because i realize the senator is asking me for a personal assessment upon which members will feel they have a right to actand i believe the senator ks i consider that one of the most solemn obligations of my lifethat during the period of exposure by the united states. which is 3 years. we will meet the test which the senator has prescribed. my reason for that is an assumption. and otherwise this legislation is  going to do anything. it is  going to be put into effect. this whole package hangs together. which is why we have given the power to the secretary of the treasury to lend money year by year. second. i believe we are pretty well down to hard pan right  on people running away. whether it is civic patriotism or danger of a depreciating asset as against an acceleration of that.  on but off that asset. the essential business base of new york will probably stay as it is. or perhaps it will slightly improve. it is a big mixture of selfinterest. of civic patriotism. you do  desert a ship that is in trouble. and so on. i believe also there is an aroused citizenry in new york. i think it would be very interesting if any of my colleagues would have the time to come up to new york. even just for a weekend. and look around the town. in the first place. this is topic a on every street. in every taxi. on every street corner. people stop me literally by the hundreds. and i can almost says thousands. and say. "senator javits. are you going to save us." i have never had that happen to me before. matter what has happened in our city. they do  mean me personally. all senators k that. they mean. "is the united states going to give us a hand. we are in big. big terrible trouble." for all of those reasons. i say very solemnly i believe that so long as the united states is exposed to this credit we will hang together. and the credit is good. the great deterioration which could set in will  set in. beyond that. i might say to my colleague. we are deeply at the hazard of the new york business community. it is capable by staying there. even undertaking a pledge to stay. which i will seek. together with the gover. the mayor. senator buckley. and others who are properly involved. the congressional delegation. and so on. it is a very desirable thing to do. but beyond the 3year time in which our plans are pretty well established once we pass this legislation. it will depend on new yorks business community. david rockefeller talked some years ago about $10 billion as a good investment by the american business community in the american cities. one could almost say it will take $10 billion for new york. it probably will . capital will be generated as the degree of confidence begins to be expressed in the city. but the business community can bring about tightening in every directionin welfare. which isa terrible stone around our necks and yet there is other way right  until the united states takes some other attitude. as the state is also strained. most states take care of their municipalities for welfare. new york state only splits it with new york cities. it really is in position to do any more right . if there is business confidence. business investment. a determination to stay where they are. then i think the city can have a very material comeback. i think new yorkers are going to get very tough on crime. they are going to get very tough on a lot of things. really. new yorks trouble. if i may say to my colleagues as members of the family. is more that its heart was bigger than its purse than anything else. there was just understanding that new york could  do anything that generosity and humanity required. when we add to that the waste of politics. it simply was unbearable and could  be carried.
s state of the union. 1976. we mentioned the possibility for the development of a techogy data bank. which has been proposed for the americas. this could be a most helpful initiative to colombia. the ratification of the treaty on the quinta suena islands by the senate is held in high importance in colombia. and the delay is  at all understood. finally. we discussed plans for the portion of the pan american highway from panama to colombia through the darien gap. which awaits the completion of a zone free of hoof and mouth disease.
. if i can have the attention of both the manager of the bill and the ranking miity member. i think everybody realizes the situation. that is. even on germaneness it is a very close question. so i propose the following to my friendand i think i speak accurately in that: that if the amendment is withdrawn at this time he will assure us that as closely as possible within 30 days after the report of the secretary. which is due on april 10. he will give us a hearing and that following that hearing he will afford to us a vehicle for letting the senate vote on the question. if he will assure us of that. i am ready to withdraw the amendment.
. in totoand i say this especially to my colleague. mr. schweiker. who has done such an extraordinarily fine job as the ranking member on the subcommittee on health. working with senator kennedywe are  getting everything this bill seeks to give us. one is trying to fudge that. least of all myself. i still believe. as does senator schweixer. that the approach of our bill was the right approach. the one we should have taken and stayed with. but  that those forcesand they are very considerable and very responsible and legitimate forces. led by senators beall and taftare willing to come to some agreement with us moving. and opinions will vary as to how far along the road that we think has to be trod. but certainly moving along that road. i think that the rock in that road. which has prevented us for rather a long time from realizing many of the basic objectives in this bill. should  be removed in this way. and i hope very much that by doing what we propose to do we will be able to remove that which has stood in the wayand again i repeat quite legitimately. based upon honest differences of opinion of our attaining our goal.
this is on the boycott provision. but  in any way to get into any debate on it. which i think the senator from illis handled very well. my own state of new york has passed a strong antiboycott law on the state level. other states have such lawsfor example. maryland and massachusetts. others are working to pass one. my own state officials have indicated that they will welcome the federal law. and in fact they have been working to get one. and they support this bill. it is clearly a problem which needs to be dealt with on the national level so that states which have acted will  be penalized for their actions. we have stories. based on fact. that the port of new york. the port of baltimore. and other ports are losing business because of the fact that they have acted and others have . therefore. i wish to add their approval. on these rather hardheaded ecoic grounds. of national legislation in this field because of the disadvantage which is coming to states which have acted in what i consider. and obviously. the manager of the bill considers to be the right spirit characterizing our country as far as this issue is concerned. i thank my colleague. i do  k whether the senator considered preemption in connection with the bill. did he or . if so. i do  k about it.
 ford. issued regulations requiring a program to retrofit or replace. over the next 8 years. all civil commercial aircraft ovei 75.000 pounds that do  meet curreni faa se standards: kn as far 36 the regulation specifically requires that all two- or threeengine jet aircraft exceeding the minimum weight must meet these standards within ( years. by january 1. 1983. onehalf ol these must be in compliance by the enc of 4 years. january 1. 1981. and older fourengine jets have 8 years to meet the standard. but onequarter must meet it by .january 1. 1981. additionally. those jumbo jets that were produced prior to the faa se standard certification requirements will have to be retrofitted within 6 years. this is welcome relief. today. 1.600 of the 2.100 jet aircraft in commercial service do  meet the far part 36 standards. six million people. in every city throughout the country. must put up with the daily bombardment of aircraft takeoff and landing at decibel levels considered unpleasant and unsafe. this is a problem for which a solution exists. but the faa regulations are only the first part of that solution. a legislative response is still called for. at the time of promulgation it was ackledged that legislation to finance the retrofit/replacement program would -be needed. secretary coleman held a public hearing on december 1. 1976. to consider alternative mechanisms for financing. although the recommended method is somewhat different than the one i proposed a year ago. it is a fair. workable. and effective alternative which i support. this legislation provides a method which will  add to the cost of airline travel. just as the proposal to finance the program from the airport trust fund would . it would establish a separate trust. for the specific purpose of se reduction expenditures. which would be supervised by the civil aeronautics board. an appointed trustee would administer the trust fund. and distribute revenues directly to airlines for retrofit or toward replacement. this trust fund would be funded by an aircraft ticket surcharge of 2 percent. that replaces a corresponding portion of the existing airline ticket tax. the legislation also provides for authority in the secretary of transportation to use a portion of the existing surplus in the airport and airway development fund. it would permit use of up to $300 million of the currently existing $1.5 billion surplus. to assist in retrofitting and replacing outdated aircraft. this is giveaway program. these revenues have been raised by the aviation industry and the flying public who must bear the costs of environmental degradation to airport neighbors. there is reason to put the entire burden on todays traveler. although the legislation puts a substantial portion of the costs on him as well. i believe this plan is both workable and fair. it was given great thought by the ford administration and deserves congressional* consideration. i would hope that the aviation subcommittee of the science. techogy. and commerce committee will schedule hearings on this proposal quickly. chairman can had assured us of hearings last year. but the plan was  forthcoming until after adjournment. and i would hope that this commitment would make for prompt hearings this year. financing is an integral part of the aircraft se reduction program and can be delayed without a serious consequent delay in the entire se abatement program.
i thank the senator. so that the record may be clear. the helsinki declaration referred to in the resolution currently before us is the helsinki agreement signed by the 30odd nations. who participated in that conference. on august 1. 1975. the record should show what this helsinki declaration says. because it is extremely revealing and extremely important. when we read it . in the light of what is occurring. which we shall go into in a moment. the russians have signed this time on the dotted line. we have had an international declaration of human rights in the united nations. but that could always be argued about as being a kind of general. fuzzy statement above the battle of what we aspired to in the u.n. but here we have hard coin. which the soviet government. as a considered governmental action. has signed. one of the great things it is always contending is that it respects signed agreements. we are going to see about that right *. because so far they are tearing it up and  respecting it. one thing the soviet union promises is to make it their aim to facilitate freer movement and contacts. individually and collectively. whether privately or omfcially. among persons. institutions. and organizations of the participating states. and to contribute to the solution of the humanitarian problems that arise in that connection. about family reunion they say: in order to promote further development of contacts on the basis of family ties the participating states will favourably consider applications for travel with the purpose of allowing persons to enter or leave their territory temporarily. and on a regular basis if desired. in order to visit members of their families.
i do  accept that interpretation in this situation. we are striking the words which appear at page 12. lines 8 to 10. because we are dealing with family situations. ve are  dealing with the kind of a situation that the case reyds against moseley dealt with. to wit. an arms length transaction. i am egh of a lawyer to k that "kledge" means that you knew or should have kn. but we are dealing here with a family situation. i do  think any senator true to his oath can account to the ethics committee for walking around with his eyes shut. certainly . but at the same time i do  think we expect any senator to go investigate his wife and rummage through her property. and so on. therefore. i just do  think we can qualify what we are .saying. the ethics committee will determine whether he had kledge. and they can easily prosecute him if they and the senate think so. but i do  believe that we should qualify that where it is a familial relation in any sense. as a matter of fact. that is one of the most important amendments the senate has accepted. it is recognizing the familial relation between husband and wife. and it is  trying to impose a rule which we k is unenforceable. impractical. and against that familial relation. so i can accept that interpretation of what we are doing here.
. i commend the committee for its efforts on this bill and i would like to comment on two excellent features. i consider to be particularly important the introduction of a second formula for allocation of section 5 moneys for operating assistance that would expand such aid to cities most in need. as the committee report es. smaller urban areas often have uligated balances while major urban areas are greatly in need of additional assistance. new york has consistently utilized all assistance available under this program. under the present formula the largest urban areas receive less than onequarter the assistance per passenger that the small urban areas receive. even using a per vehicle mile comparison. the largest areas receive only about 40 percent of the amount obtained by the small urban areas. the new formula will  eliminate this imbalance. but it is an important first step in correcting the inequity and in focusing federal funds on mass transit systems most in need. a second feature of this bill that i consider also as important is the additional operating assistance for commuter rail systems  presently aided by the emergency assistance program. these systems carry 80 percent of the nations commuter rail passengers and so are vital to our overall mass transportation system. although the funds are limited and the duration of the program only 1 year. i feel this measure is an important one. i commend the committee for recognizing the need for interim assistance while it studies the national commuter rail assistance program.
 carter in his high and le goal of seeking to achieve a just and lasting peace in the mideast at this time. the high endeavor has been launched. it can be abandoned or the duties shirked until it has reached its port of destinationa real mideast peace.
that is correct. they will be precluded in this way. i may say to the senator: there can be mandatory retirement if the action is based on age. rather than ability or performance. in other words. an employer may justify a lower age for mandatory retirement for some reason other than agefor example. airline pilots. if age is shown to be a bona fide occupational qualification.
the senator caught me a little too fast. i did  mean to state that genericallythat just because a person is an airline pilot he can be retired at 60. all i meant to say was that the law permits that distinction to be made if the employer has a valid reason other than age. in other words. if the employer has factual proof of diminished capacity or an agency with regulatory authority finds that on the basis of skill and competence. quite apart from age. a person is unable to perform his duties as an airline pilot. the law permits that retirement. but the action must still be based on a factor other than age.
. i have worked together with senator heinz and other distinguished members of the senate to find a muchneeded solution to the serious problem of deteriorating rail roadbeds in the united states. in our efforts. we have also sought to address aher significant problem facing the nation and particularly the theastern statesunemployment. we firmly believe that the bill we have introduced. "the emergency rail transportation improvement and employment act of 1p77." s. 1419. addresses both of these problems by establishing a program which would put unemployed americans back to work repairing our rail roadbeds. recently. radio station kqv in pittsburgh broadcast an editorial commending these objectives and pointing out the urgent need for immediate action. citing the recent tragic derailments which caused numerous deaths and injuries. kqv appropriately asked what would have happened if the derailments had occurred in more populated areas. implicit in the editorial is the question: when and where will the next derailment occur. the situation is critical. i. therefore. commend the editorial to my colleagues and ask that it be printed in the record. the editorial follows: [kqv editorial. pittsburgh. pa.]
. i thank my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from louisiana. for his efforts in bringing to the floor this measure to permit temporary dutyfree treatment for imports of assembled freight cars. this measure will help relieve the severe shortage of railroad freight cars that has adversely affected the ecoies of many sections of the united states. including my own state of new york. it will assist in the revitalization of our rail transportation system. so important to a healthy ecoy. by passage of this measure. the congress is preventing the imposition of an 18percent tariff. such a tariff would increase the inflationary pressures that underlie our ecoy and would add an unnecessary trade barrier. neither the administration  the domestic industry objects to this bill because the demand for new cars is greater than the u.s. manufacturers can supply. therefore. imposing a tariff makes sense. i have long been active in promoting ecoic development in mexico through the united statesmexico quadpripartite commission. i am pleased that the senate today is fostering ecoic development in mexico while relieving a burden from the u.s. ecoy.*
