. whether the figure is $36.5 million or $78.7 million. as listed on this sheet. it would  make any difference to me. even though the corporation is in my state. because frankly if this legislation goes through. the price to the industries of my state will be far higher than any $36.5 million. they will lose the advantage quality has in a free market. it is  a good bargain. when i was in connecticut this past weekend. i had someone indicate to me that i was all wet on the subject of the lockheed loan. that i did  k what i was talking about. i expected to be assailed on the basis of some principle. some principle on which i had somehow gone astray. but. then. the reason came out. this individual who criticized my stand said: i have already written up two of the contracts as between the lockheed corp. and several of the airlines that have been involved and. believe you me. the senator from connecticut is wrong in the position he takes. it boils down to exactly what i have been saying over the past several weeks: the only people that i meet or that i hear from that are in favor of this legislation are either in lockheed. or the airlines. or some subcontractor to lockheed. or the banks. that is it. disinterested person wants anything to do with this legislation. i did  ice the lockheed aircraft corp. coming to the people of this country and asking for their advice -at the time of making the decision that led us to where we are today. the people of the united states were  asked as to what kind of engines .to go on the plane. the people of the united states were  asked as to the airframes. and they were  asked as to delivery dates. ody asked the people of the united states a single question as to the project when it was being conceived. and yet today the people of the united states are being told what they must contribute. they are being asked to turn a calculated gambleand it was kn to be such at the time it was takenwhich lost into a winning proposition. the history of lockheed in defense is spotty. the history of lockheed in commercial experience is spotty. and the history of the l1011 is so disastrous as to have it come before the congress at this time. i agree that sometimes the government should break the rules. i do  think we should just go -ahead and write a rule and stick to it regardless of the consequences or circumstances. but if we are going to break the rules. i suggest that perhaps it should be done on behalf of those who believe in excellence. and that we do  break them for the inefficient. for the devious. for the undercutter. if we do  make people in this nation live with the consequences of mediocrity. then excellence becomes a forgotten standard. it becomes a forgotten standard here in the united states just as it has become in great britain and with lockheed. again i realize there are times when we can make exceptions. except that these times happen to be exceptionally tight insofar as the money we have to allocate to other endeavors. people who argue for this proposal say. "well. wouldnt you rather have all the people at lockheed working and getting paid rather than being on welfare." may i add that the majority of the people of this country are  either on the welfare rolls or behaving like lockheed and. quite frankly. i do  think there is any difference between those who are actually slothful and those who are using other means to try to gain through the backdoor. it is one and the same thing. i do  believe in rewards in either instance. the fact is that at the present time the people of this country are on a treadmill both in the earnings they have to take home and in the quality of life around them.
. senate resolution 94. if passed immediately. will be a significant indication of continued congressional concern for the welfare of the thousands of refugees displaced from their homes by the tragic war in cambodia. if its recommendations are carried out by the executive. it will result in an equitable distribution of emergency food aid  only to those needy cambodians who are presently in the military or are military camp followers but also to the other refugees. both registered and unregistered. who are crowded around the capital of ph penh and other governmentheld cities. the united states is presently engaged in an emergency 30day airlift of rice to cambodia. approximately 545 tons are being transported daily. under the present agreement. this rice is being provided through the public law 480 title i credit sales program. this is resulting in an overemphasis on distribution of rice to the cambodian army. approximately 200 of the 545 tons delivered daily goes directly to the military. the remainder is allocated under government auspices. most of it being sold on the market. the net effect of this pattern of distribution is that many needy people will never benefit from these shipments. the high price of rice. caused by the ineffective market mechanism and general ecoic deterioration in the country. precludes many from being able to purchase rice at the market price. hence there is a need to immediately make available grant food assistance for those refugees outside the market mechanism. in this regard i am gratified to learn that the administration has initiated a grant program of 20.000 tons of rice for cambodia that should alleviate part of the problem addressed by this resolution. much more needs to be done. the resolution before the senate will indicate a desire on the part of this body to see the administration reclassify at least 50 percent of the title i rice  being transported to cambodia as public law 480 title ii humanitarian grant assistance. thus making available approximately 272 tons of rice per day to be distributed outside the government structure. in addition to the 20.000 tons  targeted for that purpose. the sponsors of this resolution fully expect that the various cambodian voluntary agencies operating in cambodia will be the prime distributors of the suggested title ii grant food aid. the voluntary agencies have the capability to handle this additional responsibility. they presently distribute approximately 30.000 to 35.000 tons of food yearly in cambodia. the u.s. aid mission in cambodia has recently made a request for a 100.000ton title ii program in cambodia. to be handled by the voluntary agencies. this is indicative of their ability to distribute needed food on a timely basis. an additional distribution of 272 tons daily is  beyond their present capacity. there are. of course. certain restrictions on the present level of our assistance programs for cambodia. ecoic aid. including $89 million under the public law 480 program is limited to $177 million for fiscal year 1975 under the recently passed foreign aid authorization bill. the resolution has been drawn with this restriction in mind. we are  asking for higher levels of assistance. only a change in the allocation of our assistance to those in greatest need. in addition to the immediate problem addressed in the resolution. the united states must begin to consider ways it may be able to provide continued humanitarian assistance to cambodians under altered conditions. we are all aware of the unstable and severely critical military and political conditions existing in cambodia. one can confidently predict what the future holds for the cambodian people or the political life of that country. nevertheless. the united states is in a position to indicate to all parties its willingness to help mitigate the human tragedies that will continue to plague cambodia in the months ahead. i hope all americans agree that the united states has an obligation to assist the cambodian people in their efforts to avert mass starvation and epidemics  and in the future if help is requested and if the governing body in cambodia desires our involvement in such efforts.
i thought the gentleman referred to the total value of the commodities. it is interesting to e that last week. wednesday. the secretary of agriculture appeared before the senate agriculture committee to discuss the disposition of 50.000.000 bushels of surplus edible potatoes. on friday night field men of the department were ordered to start dumping these potatoes and the secretary predicted that the total to be destroyed in the next few weeks would be between twentyfive and forty million bushels at a cost of $1.25 per bushel. that would be between thirtyone and onequarter million and fifty million dollars. which certainly would pay for the transportation of millions of bushels of these potatoes to localities where they could be eaten. this precipitous action was tragic in the face of the statement of former secretary of agriculture anderson in the senate friday aftern that the 1949 act gave the secretary discretion to make these surplus commodities available to schoollunch programs. to welfare and charitable institutions. and to the bureau of indian affairs. we certainly should be interested in this latter possibility of disposition since i understand that we are being asked to provide $803.000 more in the urgency deficiency bill later this aftern for the bureau of indian affairs and for the welfare of our american indians. if there is an urgent need for this request and if it involves shortages of food. why should we  get the food to these deserving americans rather than to pay storage and ultimately hire more people to destroy these commodities. these bills would make that action mandatory and would broaden existing authority. they are  intended to solve the problem of a sound agricultural program. as is so often stated here. we face a condition.  a theory. approval of these proposals would prevent the carrying out in full of the waste of good food under an arbitrary administrative edict. . as the gentleman has pointed out. the department  moves belatedly and grudgingly into the field of providing dried eggs and dried milk as congress intended them to be provided for those who need them. actually. according to the inventories of the commodity credit corporation as of december 31. 1949. there were 254.490.784 pounds of this commodity and the cost is listed at $31.615.535.72. there were 76.433.954 pounds of dried eggs and the cost was $98.645.444.68. of course. this is entirely exclusive of the accrued storage charges. i received today from a responsible official in one of the communities in my district a request for information as to how potatoes might be furnished for needy residents. and i have asked the secretary to advise me on this point. i am also requesting further information as to the actual facts involved in the storage programs. as to where these articles are being stored. and as to what the cost has been and is to the american taxpayer. it occurs to me that all members might like to k what the commodity inventories of the commodity credit corporation showed as to other items as of december 31. 1949. and i shall ask permission when we return to the house to include those figures. they are butter. cheese. prunes. raisins. edible dried beans. rice. turkeys. and canned mexican meat. what more will be selected and when will we have further action in these other fields. certainly the record proves beyond any question to all except those who will  look at the facts that we have a challenge here which is urgent. irrespective of the frenzied attempt of some to defend this outrageous misinterpretation of congressional intention and illogical maneuvering for political position. i do  believe that either the people in this country. who need food. or the taxpayers. who are being asked to finance these absurd gyrations. will be happy about any delay in taking a prompt. constructive action. bear in mind that. according to the latest figures. there are 2.715.751 persons receiving oldage pensions. 1.486.404 receiving dependents and children benefits. 92.000 blind receiving help. and 543.000 on state and local relief rolls. as was stated by these 28 republican members of the house when these bills were filed: why  bring these two sets of statistics together. for they are more than statistics. they are people and food. better to get the food to the deserving people than to pay storage. and ultimately hire more people to destroy the food. i think the members may be interested in seeing the list of those who joined in support of this recommendation. besides the gentleman from pennsylvania and myself. they were: john phillips. california. jesse p. wolcott. michigan. richard m. nixon. california. hardie scott. pennsylvania. william l. pfeiffer. new york. kenneth b. keating. new york. j. glenn beall. maryland. donald jackson. california.. robert j. corbett. pennsylvania. edwin arthur hall. new york. thomas h. werdel. california. w. sterling cole. new york. r. walter riehlman. new york. thomas a. jenkins. ohio. albert w. cole. kansas. antoni n. sadlak. connecticut. henry j. latham. new york. william s. hill. colorado. charles b. hoeven. iowa. august h. andresen. minnesota. paul b. dague. pennsylvania. gerald r. ford. jr.. michigan. harold 0. lovre. south dakota. james w. wadsworth. new york. daniel a. reed. new york. and henry 0. talle. iowa. i am also including for the information of members the text of the resolution referred to: be it enacted. etc.. that in order to prevent the waste. and to assure proper utilization of food commodities acquired through pricesupport operations. the secretary of agriculture and the commodity credit corporation are authorized and directed to make available such commodities as follows in the order of priority set forth: first. to schoollunch programs. and the bureau of indian affairs. and federal. state. and local publicwelfare organizations for the assistance of needy indians and other needy persons. second. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons within the united states. third. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons outside the united states. the secretary of agriculture shall first determine that any such commodities are in ample supply over and above such reserves as may be required and deemed in the public interest. the secretary of agriculture and commodity credit corporation shall make any such commodities available at point of storage. at cost save handling and transportation costs from point of storage. the secretary of agriculture and the commodity credit corporation may advance as against handling and transportation costs in making delivery up to the equivalent of 6 months storage costs on any such commodities turned over.
. in connection with this bill. which will come up for consideration after the rule is adopted. it is my intention to offer an amendment to both sections. first. to the 1938 act. and then to the commodity credit corporation charter act. the amendments will be identical. and will be substantially in these words: (i) in order to prevent the waste. the corporation is authorized and directed to make available such commodities as follows in the order of priority set forth: first. to school lunch programs. and the bureau of indian affairs. and federal. state. and local taxsupported institutions. such as hospitals. orphanages. schools. penal and mental institutions. and public welfare organizations for the assistance of needy indians and other needy persons. second. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons within the united states. third. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons outside the united states. fourth. to intergovernmental or international profit welfare agencies. for assistance to needy persons outside the united states. the secretary of agriculture shall first determine that such commodities are in ample supply over and above such reserves as may be required and demanded in the public interest. the commodity credit corporation shall make any such corpmodities available at cost at point of use within the united states or at shipside at port of embarkation. or shall be empowered to deliver them abroad when necessary. the corporation may advance as against handling and transportation costs in making delivery up to the equivalent of 6 months storage costs on any such commodities turned over. yesterday. in a special order. beginning at page 3886. i included a good deal of factual material bearing on this proposed amendment. as i indicated. i discussed it fully before the committee on agriculture yesterday morning. and i was very much pleased with the cordial and sympathetic reception that the members of the committee on both sides of the aisle gave to the suggestion. i am hopeful that they will see fit to support the amendment this aftern. i explained in my remarks yesterday that although there is a somewhat similar provision in the omnibus appropriation bill which will be before us i am fearful that that may go out on a point of order. consequently. i think the most direct and the most immediate approach that can be made is to provide this change this aftern in the basic law itself. . i call attention to the fact that in the charter act there are some six or seven specific powers enumerated. one of them. (d). is to remove and dispose of or aid in the removal or disposition of surplus agricultural commodities. so this really does  do much more than to spell out the method by which this distribution can be undertaken. just a word about the situation which confronts us. i k there are some who raise the question of whether we do actually have these commodities in excess of our needs. i said yesterday that i thought it was pretty clear. certainly on some commodities. that we have more than satisfactory carryovers. for instance. we have sufficient prunes to give every member of congress a dish for breakfast until approximately september of the year 3239. that is rather startling. i have listed the places where these commodities are located. that is. as far as states are concerned. i think you will understand that the removal from thoseplaces even to central spots in the states or. as the gentleman from california has suggested. even to county seats. would only partially do this job. it seems to me that all communities and allneedy people in our communities should be on the same footing as far as the use of these wholesome foods is concerned. i placed in the record yesterday statistics on the commodity credit corporation. schedule 14. as of december 30. 1949. that is on page 3889. i have in my hand a release of march 3. 1950. giving the status of the price support program. i think these figures are of great interest to all of us. we had on january 1. 98.675.801 pounds of butter. on january 31. we had added aher 2.000.000 pounds. so we then had 100.736.962 pounds. i do  think anybody will dispute the fact that butter does become rancid if kept in storage any length of time. . dried milk: the first of the year we had 259.801.803 pounds. in 1 months time we had jumped that to 274.723.846 pounds. i attempted to make an estimate in my remarks yesterday before the committee in agriculture. and in my remarks here on the floor as to what the carrying charges were for the first half of the fiscal year 1950. and it came to $10.785.128. this means we are spending. on just these 14 or 15 commodities. which are spoiling or can spoil. at the rate of $59.917 every 24 hours. to me. that just does  make sense. it seems to me the limitation i placed in this suggested amendment is one we need so that. there. .will  be an expenditure beyond what we have given the commodity credit corporation. to those of you who are concerned as to whether this might affect an additional $2.000.000.000. i think it is amply clear that it would . it does  touch it. it only transfers funds from one hand to the other. it makes use of it. it takes a load off the taxpayers back. it will get these few commodities out into the hands of people who could and would eat them. i maintain that it is sound. i hope very.much that any of you who have  had an opportunity to give any consideration to the amendment will glance at some of the figures. these startling figures. that i put in the record yesterday.
. after consultation with members of the committee on both sides i  have the amendment i want to offer in a refined form. and i believe a better form. it would do this: in order to prevent the waste of food commodities acquired through price support operations which are found to be in danger of loss through deterioration or spoilage before they can be disposed of in mal domestic channels without impairment of the pricesupport program. the commodity credit corporation is authorized and directed to make available such commodities as follows in the order of priority set forth: first. to schoollunch programs. and the bureau of indian affairs. and federal. state. and local taxsupported institutions. such as hospitals. orphanages. schools. penal and mental institutions. and public welfare organizations for the assistance of needy indians and other needy persons. second. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons within the united states. third. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons outside the united states. fourth. to intergovernmental or international profit welfare agencies for assistance to needy persons outside the united states. the secretary of agriculture shall first determine that such commodities are in ample supply over and above such reserves as may be required and deemed in the public interest. the commodity credit corporation shall make any such commodities available at cost at point of use within the united states or at shipside at port of embarkation. or shall be empowered to deliver them abroad when necessary. the corporation may advance as against handling and transportation costs in making delivery up to the equivalent of 6 months storage costs on any such commodities turned over. let me read from section 416 of the agricultural lct of 1949. i have practically taken over the language in the first part of that amendment. it is identical. then it states. as to the order of priority. "first. to schoollunch programs." that l the exact language i used. then "to the bureau of indian affairs and federal. state. and local public welfare organizations." so i am  changing existing law. i am just adapting it to the provisions of section 416 of public law 439 of the eightyfirst congress. let me call your attention to aher provision in the law which convinces me that this is a germane amendment. under section 5 of the federal charter for the commodity credit corporation there are certain specific powers enumerated. the fourth of these is this: remove and dispose of or aid in the removal or disposition of surplus agricultural commodities. then this goes further. it adds certain other kinds of organizations which would qualify. it provides for a safeguard in that the secretary must first determine that these commodities are in ample supply over and above such reserves that may be required and deemed to be in the public interest. then. of course. it does a thing which is unique. it provides for the payment by the corporation of the cost of transportation. and advances those funds out of the equivalent of 6 months storage costs. i have spoken of them previously and i do  want to be repetitious. but i would like to give you some new information. one or two of my colleagues have said. "do you think you have provided adequate funds to do this." i said i thought we had. i asked the proper official of the state department. who has been handling this. to give me some figures. we have onehundredandthirty - one - odd - million pounds of butter in chicago. it would cost us 0.0132 cents per pound to send that on to new york. that is $1.731.461.91. that takes care of butter. we have 4.499.411 pounds of cheese. at eau claire. wis. it would cost us $72.440.52 to get that to new york. we have 19.683.791 pounds of eggs at atchison. it would cost us $360.000 to get that to new york. we have 19.683.791 pounds at atchison. and here again it would cost a little less to get it to folk. we have 69.330.624 pounds of dried milk. if we were to ship that from wisconsin to folk it would cost us a half a million dollars. if we shipped it to a gulf port. it would cost us less than that. we have 110.100.000 pounds of beans at scottsbluff. nebr. it would cost us $1.500.000 to get that to new york. and it would cost us slightly under that to get it to folk. those beans could be shipped to new orleans for $726.000. as an illustration. let me give you these figures to show you that it would be an ample amount in accordance with the rate that we are  paying for storage charges. i was  able to break down the difference between the carrying charges and storage charges. but i did place in the record yesterday the cost for carrying charges for the first half of the fiscal year 1950. that is $10.785.128. on just these 14 or 15 directly consumable food commodities.. i have given a list of the others. too. but i think that probably anyone with any common sense realizes that the first of the articles which would be used would be these articles which are in danger of spoiling. i said earlier in the aftern that the gentleman who is in charge of this program for children overseas called me this aftern and gave me certain estimates of what they could use if they could get it. i think it would be interesting for the members to k this. he said based upon the experience of 21/2 years they could undoubtedly dispose of 100.000 pounds of dried milk for these children who need it. he said they never used dried eggs. but he thought they probably could do so. they could undoubtedly dispose of over a million pounds of dried eggs. they would be under some difficulty in handling butter. but he thought they could use butter. they might have to put the butter in tins. but they could use it in substantial amounts. -i think this would interest those who have a very proper concern over the disposition of the cotton surplus. he said they are shipping cotton for layettes and infant clothes to greece and turkey and many other of the european and mediterranean countries. he estimated they could use some eight to ten million pounds of cotton. i understand there have been some objections to the use of this mexican meat. or canned meat. but he told me that the consumption in italy is very high. and in greece and turkey. and in all european countries. i am advised this meat is  dangerous. as a matter of fact. it has been used without * causing any harmful effects to anyone. it is probably better meat than we can in this country. because according to the information i received. they simply can what we would use as steaks and good cuts of beef. i hope very much in terms of the disastrous waste of money which e of us can tolerate and in terms of keeping this operation going on a sound basis. so far as surpluses are concerned. in terms of the human use of wholesome food and in terms of the possibility that we might. through- this program. put some of this food even behind the iron curtain in china. where everybody ks starvation is threatening. we might create a very definite asset on our side in asia. the same thing is true in india and in many of the other countries which are facing starvation. we have the means to help them and it would certainly redound to our credit if we made it possible to do that.
. i want to place in the record . the text of the section from the omnibus appropriation bill which provides for the removal of surplus agricultural commodities: the department of agriculture is authorized to pay out of funds made available by section 32 of the act of august 24. 1935 (7 u. s. c. 612 (c)) transportation and handling charges on surplus commodities owned by the department or any of its instrumentalities or agencies for the purpose of distribution to public welfare agencies. next. i wish to place in the record an amendment which i wish to offer to that section: at line 21. after the citation (7 u. s. c. 612 (c)). strike out the balance of the sentence and insert "and out of funds made available to the commodity credit corporation transportation and handling charges on surplus commodities owned by the department or any of its instrumentalities or agencies for the purpose of distribution in the order of priority set forth: first. to schoollunch programs. and the bureau of indian affairs. and federal. state. and local taxsupported institutions. such as hcspitals. orphanages. schools. penal and mental institutions. and publicwelfare organizations for the assistance of needy indians and other needy persons. second. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons within the united 3tates. third. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons outside the united states. fourth. to intergovernmental or international profit welfare agencies. for assistance to needy persons outside the united states." you will e that this uses the identical language of the omnibus appropriation bill. provides for payments out of funds made available to the commodity credit corporation and then sets forth four categories of recipients. being those mentioned in the recent conference report as to the disposition of surplus potatoes. finally. i submit a further amendment which seeks to combine the language of the conference report on the disposition of surplus potatoes. of section 416 of the agricultural act of 1949 and then provides. as has been done in other proposed legislation. for the secretary to make a determination that such commodities are in ample supply over the necessary reserves and then a provision for the payment out of the equivalent of 6 months storage charges to cover the cost of transportation. with the proviso suggested by the gentleman from arkansas when we last discussed this matter: page 193. line 18. strike out lines 18 through 24 inclusive. and insert "in order to prevent the waste of food commodities acquired through pricesupport operations which are found to be in danger of loss through deterioration or spoilage before they can be disposed of in mal domestic channels without impairment of the pricesupport program. the secretary of agriculture and the commodity credit corporation are authorized and directed to make available such commodities as follows in the order of priority set forth: first. to schoollunch programs. and the bureau of indian affairs. and federal. state. and local taxsupported institutions. such as hospitals. orphanages. schools. penal and mental institutions. and publicwelfare organizations for the assistance of needy indians and other needy persons. second. to privatewelfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons within the united states. third. to private welfare organizations for the assistance of needy persons outside the united states. fourth. to intergovernmental or international profit welfare agencies. for assistance to needy persons outside the united states. the secretary of agriculture shall first determine that such commodities are in ample supply over and above such reserves as may be required and deemed in the public interest. the secretary of agriculture and the corporation shall make any such commodities available at cost at point of use within the united states or at shipside at port of embarkation. the secretary and the corporation may pay as against handling and transportation costs in making delivery up to the equivalent of 6 months storage costs on any such commodities turned over: provided. that transportation or handling charges shall be incurred by the commodity credit corporation or department of agriculture if in so doing it would lower the total amount of agricultural commodities acquired by any institution or organization through the mal channels of trade and commerce."
. who has underscored repeatedly his interest in the civil rights bill being considered in the house of representatives. to show a like interest in the antidiscrimination activities of the federal establishment itself. i call upon him to state the executive policy on this question of the use of federal funds and once and for all to eliminate the conflict with other agencies policy which is presented by the department of health. education. and welfare and the small business administration.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from hawaii be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 to charter an ecoic opportunity corporation to encourage the participation of private enterprise in the effort to rebuild urban slums and eliminate poverty in the united states.
.. the legal services corporation idea has  gone far and it has the support of the bar. as i indicated. if we drop this title from the bill  we will drop the heart right out of the poverty program and the poor. i urge that the motion be rejected.
. one of the aalies of this chamber is that the people who ask the questions. to which they think they have answers. immediately leave and do  stay around to wait for the other side to give its point of view. in this case it is really sad. because senator church has given a brilliant description of what he wishes the facts were.  what the facts are. let us go after them one by one. i am really sorry because i thought we had already gone over all this ground in great detail. but it seems to be necessary to go over it again. members have pretty well decided what they are going to do. based on the facts they have. i do  k what they are going to do. any more than does senator church. but when you get into such a maze of image making. it is necessary. in fairness to this agency and to what it is trying to accomplish. to put some things on the record. i would like to k what we think in this country. the supreme court says that bigness per se is  a violation of the antitrust laws. it is  a crime. some 17 million direct stockholders and approximately 80 million holders of life insurance policies and savings bank deposits and investment trust funds and pension and welfare funds live on all these big companies. they give the preponderant number of jobs in the country. what are we talking about. this almost sounds like the robber barons of the 1880s. for whom we passed the antitrust laws. if we do  think our government and our laws are effective egh to deal with that at this late stage in our history. then we have done a lot worse than we think. and i do  think we have done very well. be that as it may. aside from those general statements. which may or may  appeal to some people. i think the senate ought to take a look at the facts. fact  1: this opic agency took over in 1969. beginning in 1969. it was responsible for a very large amount of premium incomean average of $30 million a year out of premiumsand its reserves today. built up out of premiums. are $184 million.  $161 million. i have reiterated that figure time and again. it comes from opic. and it represents the figure as of january 1974.  the figure which is in the committee report. which is. as of june 30. 1973. it is an uptodate figure. that is how rapidly their reserves grow. because they do get a very substantial premium.
