. i am pleased to direct the attention of my colleagues to the remarks delivered yesterday by carla a. hills. secretary of housing and urban development. at habitat. the united nations conference on human settlements. being held this week at vancouver. british columbia. i ask unanimous consent that the secretarys remarks be printed in the record.
. i send to the desk as an amendment to the bill just introduced by the -senator from illis. a provision for a u.s. community development bank. this is the central financing element in the bill. and would establish an institution in the nature of a world bank for business and ecoic development in the slum and ghetto areas of the country. i ask unanimous consent that when the bill introduced by the senator from illis is printed. this amendment be included as a part of it.
it is . this amendment is an elementi emphasize that wordin a large plan which i will describe. the purpose of the amendment and the amendments terms provide that the secretary of hud is authorizedi emphasize the word "authorized." because it is importanton terms and conditions which he considers proper. to guarantee the bonds. which will probably be mortgage bonds. of a public benefit corporation called the united nations development corporation. the corporation is organized under a special act of the legislature of the state of new york and is headed by john j. mccloy. who is very well kn to many members of the senate. the purpose of this corporation will be to develop two square blocks across the street from the united nations in connection with united nations uses. indeed. the united nations uses will occupy approximately 60 percent of the development when it first opens. and this percentage will grow substantially as the united nations needs growth. the purpose is to have an office building. a hotel. places for visitors. a bus terminalall of which relate to the tremendous flow of people to and from the united nations. it is expected to be a very distinguished development. one of the concepts is that it will all be under glass. the gover of the state of new york and the mayor of the city of new york have recommended it to us. an element in the plan is for the secretary of housing and urban development to guarantee the bonds if he feels that this is the desirable thing to do. that the security is adequate. and so forth. this amendment has been discussed by me and by others with the manager of the bill and with the secretary of stateindeed. i just talked with him tonight about itand with the ranking miity member of the committee. it goes again to the proposition that when we received the united nations in the united states. we said that we would do everything we could to accommodate them suitably. the needs of the organization have grown very large. and this represents what should be an entirely selfliquidating project. this is a profit corporation. but in order to do what must be done. in order. as it were. to redeem our assurances to the organization. this great project is going to get underway. and the authority in the secretary of housing and urban development represents an important element in this project. i would say. too. that all the people concerned are very competent and are people of great experience in this field. i wish to state that it is entirely understood that the secretary may refuse to exercise his authority or that he may impose such conditions that the whole thing can be done. but if this amendment to the housing bill which is before us. passes he will have the authority if he wishes to exercise it.
