i feel very strongly moved to join the senator from rhode island in his effort to avoid a further restriction upon our export and import trade as it relates to our ecoic system. the main point i wish to make is the fact that our overwhelming national interest in keeping the channels of trade as free as possible extends to residual fuel oils. i point out that if we do  buy. we can sell. there is involved here one of the greatest customers of the united states. the republic of venezuela. which does a business with us in excess of half a billion dollars a year. in order to maintain that business. as far as our exports are concerned. venezuela must sell to us. it is well kn in this chamber that i have been devoted to the urgent need. in the interest of winning the cold war. to keeping the channels of trade as open as possible. i have on occasion found myself alined against the position taken here which represents more protective policies than i have believed wise for the country. even to the extent of differing with my distinguished colleague from rhode island. who has been the eloquent spokesman for the protection of the textile interests in his and other states. i k he ks me well egh to k that i value tremendously the contribution which he has made to our debates. here in this subject we have pointed up in a rather sharp way two of the questions which constantly arise as we talk about restrictions on imports. one relates to the consumer. how he fares. which the senator from vermont has so very eloquently and fairly shown. i could do the same for thousands of consumers in my own state of new york. the other is the problem which we have in connection with these exports as they relate to our essential balance of payments and our ability to exercise the position in the free world which we have. and at the same time to deal with fairness with the imports as they affect domestic industry. i feel that here. in respect of residual oil we have a case in favor very much in the interest of our nation to take the role of liberalization of free world trade rather than to take the role of further restrictions. which is what we are debating here. trade restrictions on residual oil primarily affect venezuela. and have had very serious adverse impact on that country. one of our stanchest allies and supporters in our foreign policy. indeed. the representative of venezuela has asked our ambassador to the united nations. adlai stevenson. to end the abuses and injustices of the u.s. oil import restrictions. venezuela today is being retarded in its development and is faced with waste of valuable natural resources or the alternative of establishing new markets for oil. residual oil is in some parts of venezuela being poured into the ground. she must sell oil to survive. and if she can sell only the higher priced products of her refineries. she must refine greater amounts than ever before and thus produce increasingly larger amounts of the residual waste products that are in short supply in this country. if we continue to deny venezuela the natural and timeestablished outlets for her products here. we force her to establish new markets elsewhere in the worldmarkets where she must buy if she is to sell. and which will carry with them an obligation for continuation in times of crisis. oil from venezuela is an important source of low cost energy for the united states. in both peace and war. during world war ii. our lines of supply from venezuela were never cut off. although little of this oil entered the united states. it was used to fuel the u.s. fleet in the atlantic and pacific. much of the foreign oil used to supply onethird of allied military and bunkering requirements during the war came from venezuela. i have iced press speculation that removal of import restrictions on residual oil would cause a flood of soviet bloc oil into the united states. this argument is contradicted by the fact that even today when residual oil is in short supply. u.s. oil marketers are  buying soviet products. furthermore. as the soviet union is  a member of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. soviet oil imports would  carry the most favored nation designation. and therefore would be dutiable precisely at twice the rate per barrel which is applied to members of gatt. which include venezuela. also. the united states could prevent soviet importation without impairing imports from friendly countries under the u.s. antidumping act. since there is evidence that the soviet union is selling its oil at a higher price to soviet satellite countries than to free world countries. i should like to point out also that my work as chairman of the ecoic committee of nato parliamentarians has shown that it is our conclusion that one of the items of soviet policy that has proved most damaging to the ecoic system of the free world is in breaking markets for residual oil. i make that point because. for all we k. considering what the soviet union is engaged in. this may be the most important argument in this whole controversy. the soviet union right  is attacking the free world in terms of the testing of atomic bombs and the tremendous pressures. in the military sense. upon west berlin. however. we have always kn that the soviet union has a powerful ecoic capability and has shown. with respect to a number of items. like flax and bauxite. that it can materially affect the markets of the free world. using the less developed areas. by driving down the prices of commodities. of which residual fuel oil is an important one. it seems to me we should look with the greatest concern upon further limiting our capability for intervening in the international market in order to stabilize it. which would be the end result of an increase in these restrictions. continued restrictions on residual oil. while  beneficial to either the oil or coal industries. are hampering greatly the ability of american businesses to compete in the world marketplace. japanese businessmenand this goes to the point made by the senator from vermont -pay from 56 cents a barrel less for residual fuel than do their american counterparts along the eastern seaboard. one paper manufacturer in the state of maine is so close to his competitor across the canadian border that he can almost see his competitors plant. because of residual oil restrictions. however. the u.s. manufacturer is paying 30 cents more per barrel for fuela major cost of making paperthan is his canadian counterpart.  betancourt of venezuela. "the united states has been venezuelas largest market and i am confident that it will continue to be so on an expanding scale."
