the world perceives this and it is the reason why the world disrespects and/or disavows the united states at this juncture. i started off by saying this is very much analogous to the energy situation. and it is. here is this gutless u.s. senate and house which just refused to pass a 10cent import fee yesterday. and i understand the gas went up 11 cents a gallon at the pumps. saudi arabia a week or 10 days ago raised their price $2 a barrel. but there was  a peep out of the u.s. senate or the house. i want to see how many speeches are made here condemning the 11cent per gallon price increase. is it small wonder why we can expect hing but further increases and further instability of supply in the months and the years ahead. if 5 years ago we had taken those steps of mandatory conservation. of rationing. of decontrol and deregulation to up our production. if we had diverted highway trust funds into bus and rail mass transit systems. if we had gone ahead and devoted the monetary resources of government to develop the difficult techogies of energy. if we had done all these things which admittedly would have cost in terms of a change in lifestyle. in terms of tax money. if we had done all this 5 years ago we would  be stumbling around in the woods today. we would  be in the position where we have to swallow everything that opec shoves down our throat. i do  think we would have any hostages in iran. we keep talking but we do  act. well. the situation is different when it comes to our military preparedness. we want a bargain. a cheap volunteer army. we want the fewest possible people to be involved in the defense of this country. and the soviet union is well aware of this. so they continue to pursue their path of adventurism. they look at u.s. experience in the area of energy and say. "here is a nation that will  even get out of its automobiles in defense of its principles. why. if they are unwilling to do that. certainly. they are  about ready to either spend the money or commit themselves. personnelwise. to creating a military that can stand up to aggression wherever it occurs or whoever starts it." i do  think the fault. if you will. or the reason for the opposition to this issue is something that can be pinpointed upon the young people of this country on college campuses. i think it starts right here in the u.s. senate. right here in the u.s. senate. where only. as i say. 10 or a dozen senators have the guts to go ahead and do what is necessary in terms of energy policy. so the world and the rest of this country look at the leadership of the nation and say. "certainly. if they are  going to go ahead and set the example. why should i." we boil it all down to the lowest common deinator of commitment.  i think that i very much disagree with the position taken by the distinguished senator from oregon . a careful look at the legislation makes it clear that we are  talking about the draft. i want to reiterate that on the floor so there will be confusion on this melding together of the two terms. "draft" and "registration." it is  a draft. it is registration. this is the census. if you will. as to what it is that we have available to us should an emergency occur. it does  say how we are going to utilize our manpower resources or how they are going to be tapped. we just k what it is that we have. there is excuse for  doing that. i have spoken out very forcefully against the carter administrations allusions to committing the united states to the persian gulf area as being an area in our vital interest. i have. spoken out against the saberrattling of the administration of  and politicians in general have been very deficient in studying the example of sacrifice. to that extent. we are responsible for the fact that at any time a disagreeable measure comes to pass and we have to turn to the american people. they look upon us as trailing the parade rather than leading it. therefore. they are all the more reticent to take the leadership role on themselves. i remember that i spent my 2 years of service in the army artillery. i confess that i enjoyed all the special prerequisites of being an officer. i enjoyed my term of duty more as an officer than i would as an enlisted manwhether it was the messhall or the jeep instead of the 22 ton or the private head rather than the general facilitiesall those were the perks. the privileges of rank. i remember that one evening. on a firing exercise. i commanded a 155 gun battery. one of the guns misfired. and the chief of the firing battery. sergeant johnson. came up to me and suggested that i do my particular duty. i can remember all the details as to how that was done. but i believe he had to pull the lanyard once more and wait 30 seconds and open the breech block. all of a sudden. there came the responsibility. the difficulty with this nation today is that ody wants to clear the breech. everybody likes the privileges. but ody wants to go ahead and clear the breech. they will  do it. we are paid to do that. also. i think it is great being a united states senator because of the facilities that are available. the colleagues with whom i associate. the publicity we get. all this is great. but there come those difficult moments. and we have had difficult moments in terms of energy. and we flunked. period. we did  clear the breech. we got a difficult challenge with afghanistan. and we have  cleared the breech. we have a difficult challenge on the condition of the military. and we have  cleared the breech. those who argue against me may say there has to be a better system. i am sure that is so. but that is  at issue here. i remember when i was a mayor that every time you would want to have a municipal facility put someplace in the town. there would be 50 different groups saying. "we are all for the facility. but there is a better place over here." ody wanted it near them. you tell them you are going to have the strongest possible military without the inclusion and participation of the talent that is available across this country. how are you going to do it with only 1 or 2 percent of this nation. you can do it in government. you can do it in the military. you can do it in any area of endeavor in the united states of america. unless you avail yourself of everyone and all their talent.
