. on january 25 the committee on the judiciary reported favorably. with amendments. h. r. 4567. an act to amend the displaced persons act of 1948. in its present form this bill is disappointing. i had hoped that we might have before us a piece of progressive legislation which. by enabling us to solve this problem once and for all. would have removed from the already sagging shoulders of american taxpayers the tremendous financial burden incurred by our participation in the international refugee organization. instead we have before us a bill which will  only fail to accomplish this objective. but will also make virtually impossible any solution of the problem in the foreseeable future. on its face. the pending bill may appear to be an improvement over the existing law. but this appearance only masks the bills truly unsatisfactory nature. and its basic inadequacies. before considering the major weaknesses and failures of the pending bill. and in all fairness. i would state that i heartily endorse those provisions changing the cutoff date from 1945 to 1949. and eliminating incamp priority. in addition. i rejoice in the committee amendment authorizing the admission of 10.000 greeks and 5.000 adopted orphans. it is my intention to address my remarks solely to the two most dangerous provisions of the pending bill: the proposed new definition of a displaced person. and the unwarranted preferences for balts and farmers. i feel it unnecessary to consider any other provisions of the bill. for they have been admirably treated in the report setting forth miity views. report  1237. part 2. as expressed by a majority of the members of the committee on february 14. it is my privilege to associate myself wholeheartedly with the views and proposals of that report. under the terms of the present law the definition of a displaced person is identical with that fn the constitution of the iro. the pending bill would delete this provision and substitute a new statutory definition which would include  only the dps for whom the iro has been liab
. i have desire to delay unduly the proceedings in the senate today. but i do wish to associate myself with the three members of the committee. including the distinguished chairman. the senator from west virginia . the distinguished former chairman. the senator from south dakota . and my distinguished colleague from michigan . in wholehearted support of the pending bill. * it is utterly wrong that any body of our citizens should be  only without the right to vote. but without the responsibilities which go with citizenship. i firmly believe in the division of powers which. in our country. is so significant. one of the reasons why i believe in it is  merely that concentration of power in the hands of any one individual is a serious evil. but that the division of power and the division of responsibility which goes with power are essential if we are to have effective. working democracy. to have the measure of citizenship of residents of the district of columbia reduced to less than 1 percent of that which those of us elsewhere in the country enjoy is a situation the correction of which is long overdue. therefore. i wish to associate myself with my colleagues on the committee. for myself. i express to the present chairman of the committee. mr. neely. and to his predecessor. mr. case of south dakota. my personal thanks for the zeal with which they considered the bill and the efforts they devoted to it until it was finally reported to the senate and made ready for action. i wish also to say a word for my former colleague in the house. representative auchincloss of new jersey. who for many years has been an ardent and very effective advocate of home rule in the district of columbia. the important fact is  that we will necessarily get better men to run the affairs of the district. it is that without the participation of the citizens of the district of columbia in the government of the city in which they live we shall  have an effective and working democracy in our nations capital.
