i say this to the senator: if that is the caseif it is  recommittedthen i still feel that we in the senate should immediately move on a separate bill dealing with rationing. and i will tell the senator why. i do  think it is fair to excuse ourselves by saying we have given the power to the president. if i am ready to come down on his head on this issue. i am also willing to come down on ours. if he does  move and the crisis accelerates. the finger can be pointed at him. but as far as i am concerned. this is a shared responsibility. the senate is also responsible. and we should say that we are willing to go ahead and ration. we talk about riots and the service station operators. a portion of whom are going to go on strike probably in the middle of this week in my state. but the fault does  belong there. the fault is ours. even the situation that the distinguished senator from washington has mentioned is merely a distribution system. it does  conserve fuel. a rationing system is going to cause a little discomfort for everybody. but i believe it is much better than riots and the animalistic behavior going on in this country . what about a system whereby each one of us designates 1 day a week when the car can stay in the garage. such a system is conservation. let us assume that the arab embargo stays on. we are going to have more fuel oil produced and available to us this year than last year. it is  there. it is the same amount. except that we k that usage will soar.
. yesterday morning most of you undoubtedly read the a. p. dispatch under the headline. "united states gas and oil exports halted." if you read the body of the dispatch. it was immediately clear that it was  the exports which had been halted. but rather the issuance of all export licensesa completely futile gesture. because the licenses already in existence could be used to drain off vitally needed fuel oil. the worst of the situation was that our neighbors had indicated that they would be glad to accept an actual reduction in the amount of 50.256.544 gallons of all kinds of fuel oil and gasoline. including motor and aviation gas. this was 1.198.036 barrels. responsible witnesses have testified before the house interstate and foreign commerce committee that an export license is  used for a period of several days and sometimes for as much as 2 weeks. so this definitely was  the effective action taken on the east coast recently which resulted in turning an anticipated deficit into a substantial reserve by march 31. it is impossible to justify this continually hesitating and inadequate action by the department which is specifically charged by law with the wise exercise of those controls. this morning testifying before the house interstate and foreign commerce committee. mr. john boatwright. one of the foremost ecoists in the oil industry. stated that if the midwest could receive half of this amount of fuel oil and the th atlantic ports the remaining half. barring a major catastrophe. he would guarantee that that would get us through the rest of the heating season in those shortage areas. when i inquired what his affiliated companies and others would do with this oil if shipments were halted for 48 hours. he said the answer was obvious. that they could  afford to tie up their tankers and tank cars. and would send them to domestic destina-. tions. i then prepared a telegram addressed to mr. blaisdell. and having in mind that the review committee was undoubtedly in session. i asked mr. boatwright to pass upon it. he said that. if my figures were correct. it was a sound suggestion. and he approved of the telegram. i assured him that the figures were department of commerce figures. the full message was at once telephoned to mr. blaisdells office with the request it be transmitted to him immediately. then the telegram was sent. during the course of the aftern i r~ceived word that mr. blaisdell was sending me a telegram. the telegram arrived at the end of the aftern. it is included herewith. it is quite obvious to anyone that 599.000 multiplied by 2 equals 1.198.000. therefore. if one disregards the odd amount of 36 gallons. what was done was to take onehalf of the offered reduction and release for shipment the other half. stated aher way. 25.158.000 gallons were obtained and can  be loaded on tankers going overseas which can be retrieved. a t2 carries approximately 130.000 gallons. which means a little over four voyages to carry 599.000 gallons. if those four voyages start from the gulf and west coast for asia. africa. europe. australia. or new zealand we can face the possibility of a 50percent shortage at home. when these very countries have told our responsible authorities that they could get along without this fuel oil and would be perfectly willing for us to have it. i therefore prepared aher brief telegram calling for an embargo of shipments.  of issuing licenses. until monday night. i do  k whether the department has granted it. but i do k that the department understands it is the practically unanimous demand of the new england house delegation that every new england senator whom i could reach has joined. and that i confidently believe that the entire delegations of the atlantic seaboard and thwest states will join in that demand before tomorrow night. if the department chooses to ige this kind of a serious request. the responsibility is entirely its own. and it alone must be made to answer to anyone who suffers by such an inexplicable and unjustifiable act. i.also. sent a short wire to the port directors at long beach. stockton. los angeles. and vallejo. in california. port arthur. beaumont. corpus christi. brownsville. and port isabel. in texas. lake charles and new orleans. in louisiana. gulfport. in mississippi. mobile. in alabama. and tampa. jacksonville. pensacola. panama city. port st. joe. and carrabell. in florida. i am informed that these are the shipping points on the gulf and west coast. i hope to have full information here by monday so i can submit it to the department and so it can never state that it could  have done the one thing necessary_ permit the domestic voyages of these loaded tankers in the face of assigned destinations overseas. it needs n6 powers of allocations or other form of control and amount of shadow boxing or intellectual dishonesty can stand the test of the direct. practical. and sensible testimony of mr. john boatwright. i also include. for the information of the members. a tabulation of the reductions which were indicated as possible by these several countries and the full story of the gyrations of the department of commerce on february 17. as reported over the associated press teletype. you will e that the associated press very properly carried a bulletin to all editors. asking for the withholding of the publication of night lead oil a22wx. and stating the commerce department had withdrawn a stop order and a substitute story was being prepared. anyone who reads the original dispatch will e that the identical order was entered within a very short time. one inference. of course. is that someone in the commerce department was attempting to use a responsible news service to attempt to sound out public opinion through publication in the first editions and perhaps to lull the public who read the first editions into believing shipments had been stopped to save fuel for american households. the description of the days efforts of the department as a "climatic step" might be better described as a "clownmatic step. i submit that a very heavy responsibility for a worsening condition will rest squarely on the shoulders of those who could have prevented the condition but have  done so. in fact. i still think that the only safe course is for us to order an embargo by legislation. at least to the extent of reducing quotas that the countries themselves have stated were acceptable to them. our failure to do this may well be considered by any impartial person that we. too. are then responsible for any unfortunate situation which may arise throughout the remainder of this heating season.
