i did my utmost to propose such an amendment to the committee on the judiciary. but it was caught in the jam which resulted from the great differences of opinion between a number of our colleagues on the committee and the other 12 members who voted for the bill. consequently. the amendment could  even be voted upon before the deadline had arrived. if the senator will look at the report placed on each senators desk. the joint statement of the 12 members. it shows on page 40 that my colleague the senator from new york and i intend to propose that amendment to the senate. i gather that it will have the support of the senator from florida. and i hope very much that the senate will adopt it. i would be happy to state my policy on this score. it was pursued by my former colleague from new york. mr. keating. and myself for a long time on the floor of the senate. i am pursuing it further with my colleague the senator from new york . we are both in complete agreement concerning it. we believe that the qualifications with respect to voting of puerto ricans who are  in new york should be such that they will be insured in their right to vote. if they have received an education in .the spanish language.  because of any fault of theirs. but because of the way in which. education is maintained in the commonwealth of puerto rico. so that they may qualify as voters in new york state. i express the hope. which i have stated publicly and do so once more. that the new york legislature may conceivably deal with this matter in its present session. i should like to see -it done that way because i believe that would be an intelligent way to handle it. under the law. a phaseout period might be given an individual to afford him an opportunity to learn the english language over a period of yearsperhaps 5 years. even longerand allow him to qualify as a voter. in the interim. in the spanish language. that can be done in the bill before the senate. all we can do is to say "yea" or "nay." either repeal it or . but we can make conditions. therefore. the senator from new york and i are under the necessity of doing it in a complete way. and we shall do so. i repeat. i hope that the new york state legislature will deal with this matter in a more flexible way and more desirably. but we will move in the senate as wellas i have already pledged in a statement which is on file in the senatein the absence of effective action on the part of new york state. i have completely gone along with the senator in this matter. it is only fair to say that it can be a red herring across the trail of what we are trying to do. because the courts have held. for instance. in the comacho case. that it is reasonable to have a literacy test requiring ability to read and write in english. which can be satisfied by an eighth grade education. which is the new york law. so long as such a fact is fairly applied without discrimination. as it is in new york. there is hing in the constitution against it. hence. the thrust of the bill is  directed against it. we could  pass the bill if literacy tests of reasonable and modest character were being administered in louisiana. or in other states similarly affected by this bill. in a discriminatory way. we might inveighas the senator hasagainst the fact that persons should be able to qualify in spanish. or in tagalog. or in some other language. if it were germane to the situation. as in the case of the commonwealth of puerto rico. but that should  divert us from the fundamental reason to enact the bill. which is that the tests in many places have either been such as to involve such discretion on the part of the registrar as to make him a czar as to whether a person could vote. or they have been discriminatorily applied. if we could  prove itand i believe that we have proved it beyond any doubt on a reasonably. widespread basiswe would have place in this chamber.
