. a 1966 federal water pollution control administration study of the pollution problem in the merrimack river basin stated that proper pollution control would enable 10.5 million people within a days drive of the river and thousands in the rest of the country to fully utilize its tremendous fish. wildlife. and recerattonal potential. this report pointed out that there is a potential $1 million softshell clam industry in the river itself. but that in 1964 the harvest amounted to only $14.000. according to fwpca figures for 1964. the total income lost from the commercial shellfish industry. recreational visitor income. increased property value. and increased tax revenue. because of pollution. amounted to a minimum of $37 million. the maximum annual loss was estimated as high as $70 millionapproximately $65 per year for every man. woman. and child in the basin. the loss is even more striking when one has the opportunity to travel along these waterways. as i observed that day i accompanied lowell sun reporter franz scholz during his ca trip on the merrimack and concord rivers. recreating the journey made by henry david thoreau in 1839. the banks are still lush and verdant. and provide easy access to the river. an excursion along this area during the autumn when the foliage is turning would be one of the most beautiful and breathtaking sights in new england. the fact that the river is hardly used. even for boating. because of its pollution. is a great loss to the residents of the local communities. both in enjoyment and in revenue. the following is the second in the series of articles in the lowell sun by franz scholz dealing with the various dimensions of the pollution problem in the merrimack river basin. the first article which appeared in the congressional record of september 30. described. in vivid terms of colors and odors. the pollution that was observed. this second installment describes in very real terms the effects of pollution on life. both in the river and along its banks:
