 johnson. gover rockefeller and mayor lindsay stated that the reduction in federal aid "would create a grave fiscal situation in the state and would precipitate a fiscal crisis in the city. they added: the net result is certain to be major hardship and suffering for americans most in needpoor families and especially their children. the provision of this bill which would put a freeze on the ratio of children from fatherless homes who can qualify for welfare is archaic in its conception and inhuman in its treatment of the poor. it would affect adversely some 126.000 children in new york city alone over the next 18 months. mayor lindsay estimates that to care for them without federal assistance would cost the city about $30 million. as the new york times has so aptly put it: this provision faces the states with the option of sterilizing mothers or letting children starve. the bill passed by the other body originally offered a true incentive to welfare recipients to earn additional income by permitting them to retain the first $50 of monthly outside earnings and 50 percent of additional amounts. these figures have been pared to $30 and 30 percent. respectively. a proposed jobtraining allowance has been sliced from $20 per week to $30 per month. i have praised those provisions of the bill which reflect a more forwardlooking understanding of the critical problems of welfare in our nation. the day care. child health. and family planning programsalthough reduced in scope in the conference reportwill help to alter the character of welfare and encourage greater initiative on the part of its recipients. but this is  a time for half measures which raise the hopes of the poor in one breadth and dash them in the next. i regret that i shall  have the opportunity to vote to recommit this conference report with instructions to the managers on the part of the house either to alter the provisions i have referred to or to accede. where appropriate. to more progressive senate provisions. i do hope that in succeeding sessions of the congress we shall place high priority on rectifying some of the injustice being done today if the senate fails to take action in this regard on this conference report.
