. these provisions are the fruits of many years of labor in which a number of us have participated. i commend the conferees. in particular the distinguished chairman of the armed services committee and the ranking miity member. for accepting them. i find the progress in these areas particularly gratifying in the wake of ratification of the historic inf treaty. i am confident that this progreas will help create an atmosphere conducive to cementing a start agreement with the soviet union. although much work remains to be done. i urge my colleagues to further the cause of nuclear arms control and vote for the dod authorization conference report.
. as a member of the committee. i approve of this legislation and recognize its necessity. it is obviously important that the airlines and the insurance companies recognize the necessity of its immediate enactment. the reason i asked for this time today was to point up in the record a portion of the bill as to which i raised some doubt during committee consideration. and as to which i still have some question. that is the provision for a revolving fund. under section 1306. at the time the bill was before the committee in executive session i had  had an opportunity to take this problem up with hon. lindsay warren. but i did so that day. today i received a letter from him. from which i would like to quote in part. i shall place that letter in full in the record so that we may have the full consideration on this particular point. and. if it is felt desirable. in the conference. i had asked mr. warren about the revolving fund. and in his letter he says: i heartily agree with your views on the desirability of adhering to mal appropriati- procedures to the fullest extent possible. the general accounting office consistently has recommended against legislation to bypass or shortcircuit these procedures without adequate justification. he goes on to advise us that in some cases this type of financing provides a basis for more ecoic and efficient administration of certain programs. but he cautions that this should only be in cases where there is the fullest disclosure of the facts and under separate policy determinations. i have doubt many of you are familiar with the task force report of the hoover commission. which is appendix j. filed january 13. 1949. on this very problem of revolving funds and business enterprises of the government. specifically there are six particular provisions which were recommended by the task force as safeguards. i shall insert those six particular conditions in the record. again for full consideration of this point. i want to call attention to one particular point. in that recommendation number 6 calls for net income after payment of interest to be paid into the treasury as miscellaneous receipts as soon as possible after the close of each month. this particular bill provides for only an annual report. the point has been raised that once a month might be too frequent and might cause an unusual and unnecessary workload. personally. i do  k whether that would be so. i do insist. however. that in connection with the use of revolving funds. where there is direct check on the funds by congress. through its appropriations and finance committees. in all of these cases where this device is utilized. it should be surrounded with full safeguards. we should also consider with great care the conditions imposed to insure that there is abuse in its use. hope has been expressed that the experience of the last war would result in a net gain to the treasury under this proposed extension of air commerce. in this connection i believe mr. warren has  given us an expression of caution which we should have in mind in following the developments under this program to make certain that it does  result in a wholly unanticipated and unnecessary cost to the taxpayers. as mr. warren states. the previous profit became possible "because our military forces whipped the submarine menace." i do  think any of us in advocating the passage of this legislation wish to leave the impression that there is any particular analogy between that situation and those which may well develop in the field of air commerce under circumstances existing today. mr. warrens full letter and the attached statement are as follows:
it is exactly on that question that i wish to inquire of the senator from oklahoma. as i understand his amendment. it would be added at the end of section 3. and therefore the provisions contained in lines 3 to 13 on page 4. section 3. would remain in the measure. is it  a fact that under those provisions there is given to the president himself exactly this authority to include whatever may be necessary to meet a case of gross inequity. in this language: provided further. that modifications shall be made in maximum prices established for any agricultural commodity and for commodities processed or manufactured in whole or substantial part from any agricultural commodity. under regulations to be prescribed by the president. in any case in which it appears that such modification is necessary to increase the production of such commodity for war purposes. or in which it is satisfactorily shown that by reason of increased labor or other costs to the producers of such agricultural commodity. the maximum prices so established will result in gross inequities. therefore is it  a fact that if there is a case of gross inequity it will be remedied.
he indicated that he would be glad to support it with the amendments which would put the adfiinlstration of the allocation of labor under the direction of the war mobilization and reconversion office.
it is on page 107 of the hearings. mr. mcnutt said: let me recapitulate: the essence of the war manpower commission program may be summarized under three major headings. 1. employment stabilization. which makes it necessary for a worker in an essential activity to obtain a statement of availability before leaving his job. 2. priority referral of workers. which allocates our labor supply to plants on the basis of the urgency of their need for workers. 3. employment ceilings. which budget the available labor supply and assure that employment in war plants is maintained at the level necessary to meet production schedules. how has this program been working during the past 3 years. i have already alluded to its success measured in terms of war production. it has by means worked perfectly but a good job has been done. reasonable man expects that we will ever attain perfection in this field. admittedly. we have had. statutory penalties to enforce our regulations. and yet. we have had exceptionally good compliance. save for isolated instances. because of the active and aggressive support of management and labor. the program is a going concern in every labor market area in the nation. the administrative machinery includes in addition to the war manpower commissions regional and area offices the national network of local public employment offices. these offices are staffed with trained personnel with more than 10 years experience in the recruitment and placement of workers. in analyzing workers occupational qualifications. and in determining the occupational needs of particular plants. i close the quotation at that point.
that was made clear yesterday. but i am glad the senator has brought it up again. the penalty clause was  in the substitute bill. it was left out. paragraph (5) to which i referred a little while ago was omitted from the draft presented by the senator from wyoming and the senator from west virginia . that was added by the committee itself on motion of the senator from vermont [mr. austinl. and is in the bill by committee action. therefore. i think it is fair to say that the endorsements of the substitute by industry and labor do  carry with them any expression one way or the other on the penalty clause.
i thank the senator from new jersey. if we do hing. it seems to me we are letting the soldier down. because there are some things which can be done voluntarily which are in these 14 points. if we go too far. as i believe the may bill does. we are interfering with what the senator wants to see done. whereas if we go forward and supplement the law. i feel we are on the right track. the reasons why i believe this bill provides the necessary program are. first. that it applies the necessary pressure to increase production. next. it applies to all labor forces.  merely to the onethird between 18 and 45. but to all labor. next. it is suited to the size of the need. the need is for an increase and a reallocation of labor.  a major increase in numbers but an important reallocation. the substitute reaches toward those very points. it assists with the reallocation. and it superimposes on the existing practice some new obligations that will increase the labor available for essential war work. next. it is based upon the voluntary system  in use. and does  carry with it the natural reaction that comes from forced action under a draft act. it would  result in litigation. whereas the other. as indicated by some of the communications. might well bring us into litigation on fundamental points. finally. as to the morale factor. i believe the passage of this bill will contribute more to the morale of the troops than the passage of the original measure. . that brings me to the list of the 14 points which i believe are important. and which show exactly what this bill does. as an introduction to the 14 points. i refer to page 12 of the bill before us. in section 1 (b). because there are listed 5 summarized purposes of the bill under which the main points can readily be grouped: (b) the purposes of this act are to provide the most practicable and effective means to accomplish the fulfillment of such obligationthat is. the obligation to workand to provide for making the most effective use of the manpower resources of the nation by the following means. among others: (1) by providing for the accurate determination of manpower requirements and supply. and of the relative urgency of the needs of employers for workers. i may point out that without the act we would have been unable to do tht.
. each year we celebrate the anniversaries of the independence days of three baltic nationslithuania. latvia. and estoniajust as today we celebrate estonias declaration of independence 47 years ago. after centuries of oppression. all three nations achieved their independence during the upsurge of selfdetermination following the close of world war i. twenty years later these baltic states lost their hardwon independence in the face of stalins orious aggression pact with hitler. under the protection of which the soviet union subjugated much of eastern europe. the taste of freedom the baltic states experienced during that 20year period has lingered on. in spite of the mass deportation and russification campaigns of the soviet union. during these years. the baltic states enjoyed the kind of progress that could be achieved only under their own free governments. through their own voluntary labor. this kind of labor is born out of love.  out of force. out of love of ones country. for the advancement of that country for the advancement of oppressors. out of love of ones children. for a brighter future for those children for a brighter future for oppressors. during the years of freedoms. all three nations witnessed a new prosperity. with expanded trade and constantly rising industrial and agricultural production. we hope that the people of the baltic nations of estonia. latvia. and lithuania will soon be able to work.  out of fear. but out of love of their independent nations.
. i was unable to be present in the senate during the consideration of four amendments offered to s. 3293. authorizing certain appropriations for the department of defense. and of two amendments offered to h.r. 14940. authorizing funds for the arms control and disarmament agency. had i been present. i would have voted "yea" on all six amendments. these amendments were offered by the senator from michigan to limit authorizations for research and development to $7.366.600.000. by the senator from wisconsin to reduce by $342.7 million authorizations for missiles. by the senator from kentucky to bar use of funds for deployment of an antiballisticmissile system until the secretary of defense has certified to congress that the system is practicable and its cost can be determined with reasonable accuracy. by the senator from new york to weigh as a favorable factor in awarding defense contracts the undertaking by a contractor to employ a substantial number of unemployed or lowincome persons thereon. by the senator from pennsylvania to authorize $33 million for acda for 3 years. and also by senator clark. to authorize $20 million for acda for 2 years.
i want to express my thanks to the senator from missouri for his initiative in trying to get to the bottom of this question of laos. i also express my thanks to the foreign relations committee staff members who have been emously helpful in bringing the matter to our attention. my only contribution on the point. if i have any to make. is this: what we should be most concerned about is finding the best course of action for our country to follow in laos. we should  overemphasize maintaining the dignity of the senate or placing the question in dry. legalistic terms. of course. we must be concerned with preserving -the proper constitutional role of the senate. but our main purpose should be to avoid unnecessary strife. suffering. bloodshed. and catastrophe in southeast asia. that is why it is terribly important to get the facts out. so that a judgment on this matter can be made by congress and by the people. if the presidents actions in laos are necessary in order to end the war in south vietnam more quickly. then his contention should be tested. we shall never be able to judge this unless the facts get out. and that is what we are after. we are trying to find out the truth. i do  think it is terribly important whether or  there is a technical violation of the regulations or the limitations placed in appropriation and authorization bills. so long as we can get the facts out. it certainly was  the purpose of congress in drafting these limitations to hamstring the president in order to glorify the senate. that was  the point. the point was that the senate did  think it was a good idea for the united states to hire men to fight in laos. whether they be regular thai troops. whether they be irregular thais. or whether they be from timbuktu. we thought the idea of mercenaries was bad. and that is why we put the prohibition in the law. i am  terribly interested in whether the administration. by calling the thai troops irregulars. successfuly avoided that prohibition in a legal way. i am deeply concerned that the administration placed the thai troops in laos. and in that way extended the war.  that the administration did  think it was doing the right thing. of course. it thought so. i think the administration was mistaken. and the american people should have the facts to decide whether or  a mistake was made. the ultimate purpose of our inquiry this aftern. i suggest. should be what  has exceeded his authority. we want to stop the fighting. that is what the people -are interested in. and that is why we need the facts.
. the current telephone stoppage illustrates again what should already have been amply clear from the railroad and coal general strikesthat the basic and justifiable fear of the country is labor strife resulting in national paralysis. therefore. if the congress is to legislate on labor in the national interest it must first lay at rest this fear by passing a bill for seizure of any plant. mine. or facility by the government. the immobilization of which threatens to paralyze the national ecoy. this done. we can consider other labor legislation to deal with collective bargaining. union democracy. and union responsibility without trading on this overriding fear of national shutdowns. a governmentseizure bill must provide only for that minimal operation by government essential to the public health and safety. compensation to owners should be limited to the use value of the enterprise taken over as shut down. and  of the going concern. we must have plans and skeleton staffs for direction of properties so taken over in the appropriate government departments. or in a department. just as we have staffs for industrial mobilization in the war and navy departments. the injunction bills  being talked about say they do  propose to make any eumployee work against his will. but they propose hing less than that. government seizure and emergency operation promise results.  punishment or government strikebreaking.
 of a near east development commission to investigate and make recommendations on. first. immigration and resettlement of displaced persons and ref ugees. second. improvement of standards of living. social services and educational opportunities. third. establishment and development of agricultural and industrial projects to increase productivity. and fourth. improvement of opportunities for technical and university education. at that time it was pointed out by this group that vast potentialities exist in the near east for redeeming 10.000.000 to 15.000.000 new cultivatible acres of agricultural land. as these areas  being neglected had in ancient times supported great civilizations and great population centers. an estimate of $500.000.000 was given as the cost of such projects largely to be located in the river valleys of the jordan. the tigris. the euphrates and the white nile. this policy was  taken up by the administration and while the report of the unciappmission indicated that political and social conditions are  ripe as yet for largescale projects of this kind. the united states near east diplomatic representatives meeting at cairo recently appeared to indicate that such a program was essential. the sponsors of house joint resolution 427 et sequentia had also pointed out that the near east urgently needs for its development consumer goods. for which it ha. depended for some decades on the british under the conditiofis of a feudal type of ecoy of the very poor and the very rich. the redevelopment of this area could require israel as a workshop to produce consumer goodslight metals. textiles. hardware. furniture. household appliances and processed foods which the near east urgently needs. accordingly. i suggest for consideration of the department of state. and the american people. the following sixpoint foreign policy to be pursued by us in the near east: first. divorcement of the united states from british imperial interests in the near east. endorsement of the interest of the people of the christian. moslem. and jewish faiths in the security of the holy places and the placing of them under international control. and in the peace. security and ecoic. political and social development and reconstruction of the near east. second. a review of the situation of arms and armaments in the arab states and in israel with a view toward establishing the balanced strategic requirements in that area between them. third. a specific request by the united states to great britain to refrain from further shipments of arms. aircraft. and naval vessels to the arab states until the foregoing steps have been accomplished. fourth. consideration by the security council of the un or by a special meeting of the general assembly (a) of the developing arms race in the near east. (b) of the situation regarding jerusalem with a view (i) to establishing a regime for the administration of the holy places there and throughout palestine. and (ii) to the impracticability of proceeding with the internationalization of jerusalem. fifth. united states insistence on full british cooperation in a renewed drive for peace treaties between israel and the arab states. sixth. establishment of the near east development commission. as called for by the house and senate resolutionshouse joint resolution 427 and senate joint resolution 98and implementation of the work of such commission by the early initiation of point 4 projects. both by the united states and by the united nations. continuation of present policies and present developments by the united states. without seeking corrective action has already involved widespread protest including protests from our principal labor organizations. the a. f. of l. and the cio. peace and necessary development in the near east. hence the protection of that area from communism. will  be earned by a program of inaction in the face of ackledged facts. any more than peace and freedom were so earned in china. the activation of our near east policy is essential and affirmative action is called for.
. which went over to look into the dp situation and came back with a report which i think. with some humility. was the beginning of the profound congressional interest in trying to work out that problem. we got into it because the international refugee organization was to receive an appropriation from the congress of well over $70.000.000 as the united states contribution to the solution of the dp problem. and because in connection with the occupation of germany after world war ii certain obligations were undertaken by us in an authoritative way through our occupation commander. and otherwise with respect to the disposition of the displaced persons in europe. we found in 1947 that here was an outstanding fine reservoir of man and womanpower which ought to be utilized for the benefit of our country. after very. very thorough debate and thorough investigation this congress and this house  only passed the dp bill in 1948 but also subsequently. reflecting its views as to the character of the problem and the way it was handled. increased by well over 100.000. the number of displaced persons permitted to come into the united states. what we are being asked to do  is to complete the program and it is very desirable from both a foreign policy and financial point of view that it be completed. first. from the foreign policy point of view. there are few programs that reflect as much credit on the united states in terms of the leadership of the free peoples of europe and of the world since world war ii in view of the grave injustices of slave labor camps and similar outrages on the peoples of europe by the nazis which resulted in bringing into being the dps. that was a very grave problem which required leadership. which the united states gave. it was united states leadership that made possible the resettlement. really. of all the dps because it was clear from the beginning that hing could be done unless the united states led. and the united states did lead. what we are being asked to do  is to consummate the program which we earlier undertook. as to the financial side. we have supported our part of the iro. and if the iro must go on we probably will continue to support our part of it with the millions of collars which it takes. we have a pretty good opportunity  if we extend this program to complete the evacuation of the displaced persons camps. the displaced persons camps are due to be pretty well wound up by october or at the latest december this year. this extension will go far to help to do it. otherwise we may find ourselves with a continuation of iro and the necessity for more appropriations on that score. aher thing i would like to emphasize is that there is question of groups involved. the act is seeking to take care of those who will be most useful to the united states on the ground6 of skill and character. i might tell the house. as -a matter of parenthetical interest that there were originally a great many jewishdisplaced persons. as everybody ks. some 22 percent of the total. but the great majority of these were happily resettled in israel. where they are doing a very constructive job. we are dealing here in this extension  with groups but with people who are going to be useful to the ecoy and the future of the united states. i certainly think on those three grounds. the continuance and the consummation of the dp policy which we adopted in 1948. which led to the international solution of the problem. a financial saving. and a very important financial saving. if we move to wind up the dp camps . and the fact that we are getting people who are very desirable for the future of the united states. this particular measure ought to pass. i should like to take 1 minute to make a personal reference. because obviously this bill is going to be opposed very strongly by the gentleman who made a bitter personal attack on me just a little while ago on the floor. i have said once before in answering what i considered to be a vicious attack on americans of the jewish faith by the same gentleman that i would  move to strike out what he said. because i believe that every once in a while one has the chance to feel that despite the fact that one is only a single member of 435 members he can do something useful here. one of the things i think i can do that will be very useful is to let these hate denunciations stand as monuments to what can happen in this country if free americans will permit themselves to be scared by the kind of denunciation which is made here by this particular member. i will permit myself to be scared . i assure you. will i suffer a heart attack. as one of my colleagues from new york did. i understand. long before i was here. in a similar situation. as i say. i will  permit myself to be silenced by terms of opprobrium which may be hurled at the things i do and the reasons i do them. i should like to stand a little bit on the record. i should like to tell the gentleman from mississippi . incidentally. that i have a bill before his committee. a bill needed in fairness to the provisions the law has made to encourage home ownership by veterans. i hope very much the gentleman will demonstrate the americanism he preaches by giving a full and fair hearing on the subject matter of the bill regardless of the fact that i introduced it. let us just take a lock at my record and his. the record will show. i believe. that in foreign affairs matters the gentleman from mississippi voted contrary to the way i did. and very much the same way that a certain gentleman from new york voted who was here up to this congress. who was charged with following what he calls the communist line. that is a very strange identity of voting. i might say to the gentleman that when it comes to serving my country and going back to where i belong. i happen to belong on the east side of new york. and i go back there very frequently. lnd i like it very much. in addition. may i say to the gentleman that the gentleman had promoted a multibilliondollar pe icn bill in this house estimated to cost well over $100.000.000.000. which was defeated. which would have started a precedent that could have bankrupted the united states and done exactly one of the greatest acts that the communists want. to hand this country over to them. after this defeat a perfectly reasonable and proper veterans pension measure did pass. replacing the one promoted by the gentleman. may i say that the gentleman from mississippi opposed the ..uropean recovery program and the mutual defense assistance program. the defeat of which milions of americans believe. as i do. would have turned europe over to the communists. i do  make personal attacks in the house and i am  going to start  and this matter is ended as far as i am concerned. i am only saying these things because of the personal attack that has been made on me and because i think everybody in this house admires some spirit. i think i have a little bit of spirit. may i say i think everyone in the house serves his country as sincerely and with as deep conviction as he ks how. and i say that. although i doubt that the gentleman from mississippi would say that about mei say that about himi think he is sincerely trying to serve his country and all i ask is that regardless of what the gentleman from mississippi thinks or says about me. i am only solicitous about the fact that the other 433 members shall feel that in my way and with deep sincerity and out of love for my country. for which in world war ii i was perfectly willing to give up my life. i am serving my country for its best interests.
. i am today introducing the national act against age discrimination in employment. it makes discrimination in hiring or firing workers over 45 years of age an unfair employment practice which can be redressed with recovery of back wages and ceaseanddesist orders. judicial review is provided and the bill emphasizes conciliation and investigation. adminstration is vested in the wage and hour administrator of the department of labor. this bill is in effect a fepc for older workers. a vital resourcethe working power of older citizens. both men and womenis being wasted at a crucial time in our national life while the burden of relief rolls and state and municipal aid for our olders citizens becomes drastically increased due to shortsighted discrimination against the hiring and retention of older workers. we can afford any of these wastes. the enactment into law of the bill which i have proposed will  only deal directly with the job problem but will focus attention on the other problems of older the citizenrehabilitation and retraininz. housing. recreation. retirement. pensions. and social security. there are 11.500.000 men and women over 65 in the united states making up about 8 percent of the total population. estimates are that by 1975 there may be close to double that number. if we do  see to keeping our workers over 45 employed during the next 25 years they are likely to become public charges in increasing numbers. in addition. current employrient. considering the liberalized provisions of the socialsecurity laws applicable to ulder workers. will make more of them eligible in the ensuing years for benefits under the social security system. the mounting demands on federal. state. and municipal budgets for oldage assistance is shown by the experience of the city of new york. where welfare commissioner henry l. mccarthy. recently declared that within a period of 9 months from july 1. 1950. to april 1. 1951. the number of employables on the relief rolls over 40 had risen from onehalf to twothirds of the total. commissioner mccarthy found a direct "prejudice against hiring workers over 40." experience in other parts of the country bears out this situation. for older people a job is the best guarantee of status. independence. and health. for c(:ample. the 1949 report of the new york state joint legislative committee on problems of the aging lists as the first of five basic shortcomings in current employment practices concerned with the aged "widescale prejudice against hiring workers over 45." the problems of defense mobilization have reduced the number of unemployed to almost the irreducible minimum of 1.600.000. yet demand for over 3.500.000 additional workers is expected in the next year or two. the only way this can be satisfied is through the employment of older workers. the handicapped and women. in this field older workers represent the most fruitful source of employment with the least ecoic and social dislocation. it is estimated that older persons. women. and farm workers can supply 2.000.000 of the 3.500.000 additional workers needed. but the contribution of women will be very materially less than it was in world war ii. it is estimated that only 900.000 women are  seeking jobs against the 4.000.000 drawn into the labor force during world war ii. many of these remained at work after world war ii and the increased birth rate has given many of the others young children to care for. traditionally older people found it much easier to gain employment than today. going back to 1890. 68 percent of all men over 65 were in gainful occupations. by 1950 this figure had dropped tb 43 percent and it is dropping further. an idea seems to be abroad that the complexity of modern business and industrial operations excludes the employment of the older worker. those who have employed older workers in world war ii found them steady and reliable with a minimum of absenteeism due to illness or other causes. the state of massachusetts has had legislation for some years declaring unlawful the discriminatory practices in hiring or firing workers between 45 and 65 years of age. this is an excellent precedent to which the congress ought to give its attention.
. during the weeks between april 19 and may 16 we commemorate the 15th anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising. that event during the height of world war ii an almost unarmed and desperate jewish remnant herded into the ghetto at warsaw rose against their nazi captors. choosing death through battle rather than to submit to the extermination which had been the fate of so many of their coreligionists. the warsaw ghetto uprising. which itself began on an anniversary of freedom. passover eve. 1943. is an event marking indelibly in history mans indomitable spirit and his eternal fight against tyranny for human dignity and freedom. today all that remains of polands prewar jewish population of 3.300.000 are 30.000. the climax to 1.000 years of jewish life in poland. the tale of heroism which represented the uprising in the warsaw .ghetto has been told time and again. the warsaw ghetto uprising was the high. dramatic point of the resistance against the extermination by the nazis of 6 million. an estimated onethird of the jews in the world. there were uprisings by the unarmed few against the armed many elsewhere but what happened in warsaw was so dramatic as to symbolize the resistance effort. in october 1940 the nazi germans herded most of warsaws 330.000 jews into a ghetto separated by barbed wire and high walls. beginning in midsummer. 1942. the nazis began deporting these unfortunates. plus other jews from all over europe who had been confined in the warsaw ghetto. to the mass extermination camps. the deportees and the community had been under the impression that they were destined for labor details until rumors began to sift back as to the actual fate of those sent away. a mi revolt in january 1943 had been cruelly suppressed by the nazis. when. in the spring of that year. it was realized that the germans meant to exterminate the remaining 40.000 to 50.000 and the stories of deportation for labor were mere fabrications to lull into a false sense of security those left behind. the remnants decided to fight to the death rather than submit to slaughter. illarmed. illprepared and with almost hope of survival against the soldiers of the nazi army that had swept across all europe. they fought. the revolt began in the middle of the night of april 19. 1943. the first night of the passover commemorating the biblical story of the flight into freedom from egyptian slavery of the ancient israelites. the fight lasted for weeks until the entire ghetto. every building. every bunker. every structure was destroyed. leveled to the ground and burned and every living creature killed. those who escaped immediate death were immediately deported to the extermination camps where they met their end. nazi general stroop spoke the epitaph in his final report: there is more any inhabited jewish quarter in warsaw. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a statement issued at that time from within the ghetto. on the ninth day of the struggle. by two of the leaders of the movement. and signed by them. this statement has found its way out into the world. it tells its own dramatic story.
. i am most desirous to proceed with a speech i desire to make on the minimum wage bill and to make some observations as to what has been advertised in the press as a war of nerves in respect to the bill. before doing so. i should like to accommodate the senator from kentucky . who has an appointment he desires to keep
s message was mainly concerned with the problems of youth unemployment. and of urban and rural families in endemic poverty. this is. of course. critically important. but the poverty of the aged and their special problems. the poverty of our racial miities and their special problems. and the problems of the slums were passed off without much comment. these were lumped together in one paragraph where there are recapitulated the principal measures of the kennedy administration. upon which there has been action. it would be a serious mistake to distract the congress from these essential measures. thus giving an opportunity at least for delay. and perhaps for omission. of the programs which have been pending here for a long time. third. there is too much emphasis on the federal effort and  egh opportunity for others to share in the responsibility. the arbitrary allocation of federal funds for the proposed programs and the ratio of federal participation90 percent in most instances and 100 percent in someare too high. there should be greater emphasis on state matching programs and greater sharing with contributions from voluntary organizations. foundations. state and local governments. depending upon their capacity. their programs and the organization of their activities. the business incentives are good but too small and too limited to make an appreciable dent in unemployment. it is uniquely a program for that purpose. fourth. a clear line of distinction is  drawn between the unemployed for whom effective unemployment compensation has expired. and the endemic core of the poor. this is  calculated to help either of these two great groups. for the war on unemployment should have an equal priority with the war on poverty. for example. we should  be diverted from legislation to effect the national adjustment to automation which is estimated to mean a change of 2 million jobs a year. so far the suggestion for a study commission is the only thing which the administration has come up with on that vital subject. i share in this suggestion. but i point out. also. that the war on unemployment  lags far behind the measures and appropriations called for in the war on poverty and therefore should be upgraded in these practical terms. both fronts must be moved upon simultaneously. fifth. the great complex of community facilities and services  existing in this general field are  adequately dealt with. for example. there is an appropriation in the federal establishment for day care centers for the children of working mothers. which may very well need to be tied into this program. or at least should be considered in connection with it. there is the program resulting from a revision in the law providing for aid to dependent children. which calls for permissive work requirements. and this also should be tied in with the war on poverty. there are such other problems as. for example. special instruction in the primary grade. schooling of children from poor families. and the provision for social workers and other technicians in sufficient numbers. with adequate training. which will develop as this program is developed. the important thing  is that before we can be adequately prepared for the war on poverty. congress will have to do the job which the administration should have done. had it  been under pressure to get this program out before the public. it is most important that the american people understand that the job will have to be done here in the congress. and in my judgment. i believe it will be done.
. that. to me. seems to be absolutely fatal. second. there is discretion whatever as to the buyer. suppose the buyer is a veteran of vietnam. are you going to tell him. "im sorry. son. but i reserve my sovereign right to discriminate against you." withstanding that i may employ a broker who only lives because he is licensed by the state. as senator hart has said. this is a key amendment. senator byrd is absolutely right. it is a very key amendment. and because it is a key amendment and destroys everything we are trying to construct. it should be rejected. and i hope the senate will do so.
 nixon. during her recent visit to buy additional defensive armshope-: fully on less onerous termsassumes a new urgency. if the united states does  lose its nerve and does  allow itself to be maneuvered into pressing israel to accept measures which could compromise its security. current radical arab and soviet policy will fail. the bankruptcy and total negativism of its premises will be exposed and a new era of opportunity and enlightenment can open in the middle east. but if israel loses her viability as a free stateeither because we unwittingly encourage her enemies to think they have a chance to wage one last holy war against her. or because our "balanced" policy forces israel inte bankruptcy to maintain her military de. fense against such a warit would po.5. the gravest implications for the unitw° states and for the peace of the world.
