still. the situation persists. i can see how a senator like myself. with all this information at hand. can fail to ask the senate to act on it if the president does --and he will . i say he has the power to do so immediately. the department of health. education. and welfare does  agree with me as to the power which that department has. the department of defense. the department of labor. the post office department. and other departments have acted entirely equivalent to what i am proposing. why must this department be an exception. the former secretary of health. education. and welfare . who is  in the chamber. is the author of the policy about onbase children. he himself offered such a proposal. but he himself. as secretary of health. education. and welfare. felt bound by the opinions of lawyers in his department. i can quarrel with him about that. but i can and do quarrel with the president who appoints the secretaries and who has the authority to act. this whole problem has  been swept under the rug. a few days ago we received the 1963 report from the u.s. civil rights commission. i call the attention of the senate to page 196 of that report. headed "discrimination in education." i want the senate to k what is happening under the cover of this situation. the commission reports the following experience. on page 197: this has been an embittering experience for many negroes. for some negro families. assignments to southern installations require them to expose their children for the first time to segregated schools. in some cases. children must travel up to 40 miles each day to and from the nearest negro school. they frequently find rundown buildings with obsolete textbooks and equipment. and overcrowded classrooms maintained by inadequately trained teachers. in states such as mississippi. where 357 of 642 negro elementary schools do  meet minimal state national. but state. state of mississippiaccreditation standards. the quality of the education may be so inferior as to jeopardize the students chances of acceptance when he seeks to enroll at aher institution. segregation has an added impact on both white and negro families living on military installations. they see their children. who live and play together on base. line up by race to await the arrival of segregated school buses to take them to their segregated schools. i  read from page 199 of the report: the result has been that there are schools adjacent to military installations which are built. maintained. and operated almost entirely with federal funds and attended almost exclusively by the children of military families. which exclude negro children. at one air force base in alabama. negro children bypass such a school every day on their way to the more distant negro school.  only is the school operated with federal funds. it was built upon property deeded by the federal government to the school district in 1955 soon after the defense departments policy of integration of onbase educational facilities went into effect. the deed did  require that the school be operated for the benefit of all children. one further aaly it seems to me indicates the ridiculousness of everything we are doing. we are extending the impacted areas program. we are authorizing the appropriation. and at one and the same time we are suing in court to desegregate some of the schools to which we are giving money under the impacted areas program and to which we are agreeing that the deartment of health education. and welfare is compelled to send children. withstanding that they are segregated. how silly can we be. suppose i owed somebody $100 and he owed me $200. would i pay him the $100 and sue him for the $200. i would have to be insane to do so. but that is exactly what the united states is doing. the united states is paying federal funds to these segregated schools. and then is suing them in court to restrain them from being segregated. it was bad egh when that plan was in effect. up to june 30. 1963. however. that plan has expired. we are  renewing it. we are apparently going to renew it on precisely the same basis. that is what we shall be doing if we renew the plan without my amendment being added to the bill. . they can read. they have a few pretty good lawyers. certainly as good as i am. they understand what it is all about. they can read the constitution. when members of the senate talk about the danger to domestic tranquility in the civil rights revolution. i hope they will think of cases like this. blatant to the point of stupidity. yet we hide our heads in the sand. i close upon this e. we are sometimes told that if one of these amendments were to carry. we would kill the bill. and therefore it is bad to offer it. i am in favor of federal aid to medical schools. to graduate schools. to dental schools. and to education generally. therefore. as a liberaland i am proud of the designationi am told that i should  offer an amendment which would kill the bill. however. we are engaged in a struggle for the very soul of america. and i believe that struggle is more important than any bills.  merely the bills i have named and which i support. this is an ideal case for doing precisely what i have been advocating. most of this money goes to southern states. they get millions of dollars. we do  get very much of this money in my state. or in many other parts of the country. this money will very heavily subsidize southern schools. that is where it would hurt. let our southern friends filibuster. that would be fine. let them be the ones responsible for their  getting the money. this is the ideal bill on which to add such an amendment. if they kill the bill. they kill something they dearly want. i doubt very much that they would do that. although i am  privy to their plans. for just about every reason one can think of. and  only for the sake of justice under the constitution. but for commonsense. let us adopt the amendment. i would like to change the policy of the department. which in my opinion is only tying its own hands by its own interpretation of what the law says. etheless. we face a reality.  a theory. let us untie the departments hands. so that they can proceed to do justice to children of parents who l1ye off the base. just as we do for childitn of parents who live on the base.
