i thought that was the mandate of the committee. but i wanted to have it clear on the record. i am confident that with the explanation of the chairman of the subcommittee. the bureau will allocate to this project funds completely sufficient to bring about this declared objective at the earliest possible moment. i am equally confident that the officials of the bureau are as anxious as anyone that it solve the problem. i have every reason to believe that they understand the great anxiety of the residents of communities threatened by the disease and k that those communities are struggling with all their resources to prevent its spread. i can agree fully with the statement that from the standpoint of eradication the program is out of hand. if it is meant by that that it is hopeless. certainly we in massachusetts. and i suspect others in similarly affected areas. have  given up hope. at any rate we there. in cooperation with our state and county governments. are doing all within our power to locate diseased trees and then destroying them. by the same token. in view of what we are doing i can agree fully with the statement that from the standpoint of a cooperative. general control program. this disease is out of hand. i am certain i can say with accuracy that in massachusetts just the opposite is true. but i submit that this highlights the very grave. real. and immediate responsibility of the federal government and the bureau. having withdrawn from the field of eradication and a cooperative. general control program. to intensify its effort with adequate allocations from the research appropriation to discover a means of killing the insect carrying the disease. and i am sure that the committee and this body expect the bureau to extend every measure of possible cooperation to state. county. and municipal governments in the struggle to combat the effects of this disease. i understand that the bill carries $550.000 for control of gypsy and browntail moths and $3.595.000 for control of whitepine blister rust. both valuable projects. i mention that to reemphasize m3 reason for making this specific inquiry as to the committees purpose and intention with references to continuing efforts in the general research program as to the necessity of a vigorous attack on the federal responsibility in controlling the dutch elm disease. may i add that i am informed that this disease is  localized in new england. but has been discovered and is present in practically all of the states from new england west to missouri and south to louisiana. in june of 1948 the bureau reported it to be present throughout new england. in new york. new jersey. pennsylvania. maryland. delaware. virginia. west virginia. kentucky. tennessee. ohio. indiana. colorado. illis. missouri. iowa. nebraska. kansas. oklahoma. arkansas. mississippi. and the district of columbia. an extremely interesting report was made on april 30. 1948. by the ard arboretum. connected with harvard university. in which it was pointed out that the disease had come to stay and would be with us a long time. it was emphasized that it would continue to be an everpresent menace for a number of years. on ember 7. 1947. the new england council called a general meeting of scientists working on the control of the pest in new england at the statler hotel. boston. able representatives from all of the new england state experiment stations. as well as from new jersey and maryland. attended. there were. also. representatives from the united states department of agriculture and a number of canadian experiment stations. the whole problem was discussed exhaustively. and the results were a general realistic. but  hysterical. attitude toward this matter. -1 am glad to advise the house that one community within the first congressional district in massachusetts. williamstown. was even then reported to have taken vigorous measures and to have developed an excellent local solution. there a local committee of civic leaders. combining both experts and individual citizens. worked out a program with the objective of cleaning up all of the dead and dying elm wood in the town. with the excellent cooperation of the local newspapers. several civic organizations obtained volunteers to donate their trucks and men to man them. with the school students and the local garden club coordinating. the individual property owners searched for all dead elm wood and removed it. the town itself provided funds so that an experienced investigator was able to make an exhaustive check for such wood. this one thoroughly aroused massachusetts town. with an active and intelligent committee. recognizing the tragic possibilities. took constructive action even at that early date. i can report that many other communities within my congressional district have taken equally vigorous and effective measures and that they would be the last to agree to what seems to me to be a rather unfortunate e of defeatism in the opinion that a cooperative control program is  feasible and that they certainly would  admit that they were going to give up their elms without the hardest kind of a battle. i mention this solely because i believe so sincerely that the federal government. with all its technicians and wellqualified experts and with its tremendous resources. including laboratory facilities available to it. should certainly match those efforts with some kind of constructive. vigorous. and active program on its part.
