 should annce that insofar as civil rights legislation is concerned. it. too. will be considered bi-. partisan. like so many phases of our foreign policy. and that. leaving it aside as an issue from which either of the great political parties is going to take credit. we together are going to try to pass it. there is a very good chance to get it passed. i respect the opinions of my colleagues from the states that have a poll tax. and i have been here long egh to k that they respect the opinions. too. of those who disagree with them. and. despite an issue as passionate as this one. i k that those gentlemen. as would i. would never surrendermatter what the costour common right to fight for those things which each of us consider to be the inalienable rights of citizenship. ody i think is the superior of my colleagues from the polltax states in their opposition to the communist philosophy or the totalitarian ideology. but the fact is that there is more potent argument being employed today. in the ideological battle being waged in the world by the communists against us. than this situation in our own country. of discrimination against over 10 percent of our popuiation which is negro. discrimination such as i have referred to is a festering sore in our own country. and it is possible that with the strains created by a depression in the united statesshould one comeand we shall certainly fight to prevent itsomeone is going to try to make capital of this fact and to use this discrimination as a tremendous impetus to disorder and confusion. although it affects but about 10 percent of the population. it affects citizens of our common country and the constitutional guaranties for all of us. i do  see this as a proposition where those of the th are seeking to impose something upon the polltax states. we are here as representatives in the congress of the united states who speak for all of the country. and i believe all the country has the right to say how its representatives shall be elected and what shall be the qualifications of their electors. the facts show that in those southern states that have the poll tax- a very much smaller number of people. a strikingly small number of people. elect members to the house and to the senate. compared with other states of the union. . those are the facts. and the facts have a way of proving cases. and i think that over the long period of years the facts on the poll tax have proven the case. here is an instance where our colleagues from the south ought to go alonng with us. here is something that clearly ought to be done.
: an effort is being made to undo a measure which has been in effect for 6 years without any real complaint that it has  been working properly and effectively. the other point. which i think is critically important. is that everything the senator from new jersey has said about continuing discrimination up until very very recent times in respect of race and ethnic origin and color. as well as sex. is true. incidentally. i had that in my own family. my father was an immigrant from middle europe in about the late 1880s. and i am old egh to k the discrimination which was practiced. overtly and blatantly. through many of my adult years in respect of employment. one of the things that those discriminated against have resented the most is that they are relegated to the position of the sawers of wood and the drawers of water. that only the bluecollar jobs and ditchdigging jobs are reserved for them. and that though they built america. and certainly helped build it emously in the days of its basic construction. they can ascend the higher rungs in professional and other life. it will be remembered that one of the most cruel aspects of discrimination was the quota system practiced in many american universities when it came to doctors. it was the reason for the establishment of the albert einstein college of medicine. one of the great colleges of medicine in the united states. in the city of new york. it involved a tremendous reaction. the first revolt within academic ranks on the part of students and faculty. as well as the genera public. came when these facts came out. yet. this amendment would go back beyond decades of struggle and of injustice. and reinstate the possibility of discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin. color. sex. religionjust confined to physicians or surgeons. one of the highest rungs of the ladder that any member of a miity could attainand thus lock in and fortify the idea that being a doctor or a surgeon is just too good for members of a miity. and that they have to be subject to discrimination in respect of it. and the federal law will  protect them. this would be most iniquitous. i simply can believe that in this year it would be seriously entertained as a possibility by way of exemption from this bill. i hope very much. almost in selfrespect. that the senate will decisively reject this amendment.
