 even if it is sometimes strictly legally binding. there is also in the law the doctrine of ultra vires. and that doctrine applies equally to a sovereign as to anyone else. i respectfully submit. in answer to the argument. that if it is done pursuant to a contract. it is beyond the power of the u.s. constitution. and under the law as it relates to the faa itself to agree to make payment for airport shells which contain segregated facilities. i submit that the agency has recognized that fact in the new rules and regulations. but that rather late recognition does  say what it did before under its previous regulation. i have said before. and i say again. that it is  easy to propose to the senate an amendment of this character. i k it. and the senator from connecticut. who was present a moment ago. and who proposed such an amendment on aher bill. ks it. there is a certain "freeze" which occurs in the senate when a member of this body offers this kind of amendment. whatever may be the differences of view between members of the senate. it is my deep convictionand vote after vote upon this issue has shown it to be sothat the great majority of the country construes the constitution to mean that the constitution does  tolerate discrimination on the ground of race. creed. or color. and whenever we permit it. we are waiving or suspending the constitution. because that is certainly  its intent or design. especially when one finds. in an administrative sense. that the executive agency concerned is either unable or unwilling to effectuate the intents and purposes of the constitution. in this case. as i understand. the agency has intention of  making these payments unless we attach a condition in this appropriation bill with respect to denial of payment. i respectfully submit that. as we respect the constitution and the laws of our country. and the spirit in which they are to be applied. this is the fair thing to do. i close upon this e: airports are used by many visitors from abroad. they are used by diplomats. as well as by citizens of the united states. we are judged  by what we say. but by what we do. any americans heart must weep when he goes to an international airport in a great american city and sees a sign over the door. however that sign may be disguised. which indicates that it is for white only or colored only. often the signs read. "by order of local police." in order to avoid the implication that it is an order of aher agency. or it may rcad. "for intrastate passengers only." when in reality we are dealing with interstate facilities. but an americans heart must truly weep to see a sign over a door in this country which says. in effect. "white only." or "colored only." when are we going to grow up and realize that twothirds of the people on earth are yellow. black. or brown. many eloquent words have been uttered on the floor of the senate with respect to the deadly menace to the free world with reference to communist china. china has 600 million people600 million people who are yellow in color. and who identify themselves with other people of color in the world. whether they are in the united states or the union of south africa. i k of few issuesindeed. i k of issuetechnically domestic in character which is more portentous in terms of what will happen to our world than the issue of what will happen in the united states on this question. i have received many communications from indonesia and other countries. they do  ask the impossible. they do  ask the millennium. they do  ask for a tyranny to stop this practice by the use of troops. or other means of that kind. they ask only that we do the best we can. when the opportunity is here. to strike a blow for the equality of mankind in the way i am trying to do. i hope very much that my colleagues will understand the issue very well. this may be one of the few opportunities we shall have to express ourselves in this chamber. because i think the administration has very unwisely refrained from asking the congress for civil rights legislation. which is urgently needed with respect to school desegregation and other matters. in this session. this may be one of the few times when members of this body can express themselves on issues as fundamental as this for the security of our country and the cause of freedom in the world. i hope the amendment will be adopted.
