it will  take very long to make the point. the senator from washington and the senator from new york have already made it. i believe that the whole problem with the attack that the american people and we. as their representatives. have made on poverty and everything else that goes with it is that our attack has been so pitifully small. a billion dollars is just a drop in the bucket of the needs of the cities. as mayor lindsay. gover rockefeller. and many others have testified. as the senators from washington has just said. with his customary direct eloquence. for us to cut down this pitifully small amount at this time would be a great mistake.
exactly. a community action agency. for example. must submit a program. such a program covers the items in the fields of education. daycare. manpower training. provisions for the elderly. youth recreation. community workersthat is. people who might do work that is needed in the community which is  susceptible to private employmenthelping in hospitals. and so forth. they would decide on a program including these elements. and they would stipulate what they sought for each in terms of the priorities and in terms of the total resources which would be made available to them. that function  will be strictly in the hands of the politicians. they are required to consult with the public and the poor. but the decisionmaking power is in their hands. and that differs 180 degrees from the situation today. that is where everything starts. beyond that. you may administeryou may have much of the responsibility in that regard. you might break down a particular type of program into different neighborhoods smaller units. and so forth. but the basic programthe priorities and the allocation of resourcesis policymaking. and that is in the hands of the political people. if they choose to assert their power to take it. one of the most troublesome aspects of the situation is that a good part of this antipoverty program has been so stimulating and exciting because it has been a sort of burr under the saddle of the public officials themselves. in many communities. for examplewe saw it in the testimony. i believe. with respect to a city in the south. but it is quite typicalyou had tremendous shantytowns right in the center of town. it was alleged that the reason for that was the failure to enforce the building code. and it would take some form of community action to stimulate the municipal officials to enforce it. community action can be engendered by citizens. in an orderly way. having a meeting. appointing a committee. and drawing up their grievances in an intelligent manner. or by sending a committee to the city hall to testify before the council. yet you can hardly conceive of public officials who would be so broadminded that they would countenance such activities criticizing of their own effort as part of the poverty program. you can be sure that any type of work of that type will be suffocated in such a setup. the people who are for this type of setup do  want such activity. they are against it. that is why they backed the green amendment. and this suits them to a "t." but that does  necessarily suit the majority of us. and that is the essence of this argument. . i do  think so at all. it is claimed that the effective date is deferred until february 1. 1969. i do  find any such comfort in the bill. the conference report states existing program may be terminated before february 1. 1969. unlessand that is a big unlessa new agency has been designated and funded to take its place. this only means that the green amendment will  produce interruptions in ongoing programs until february 1. 1969. if city halls wish to. they are at liberty to take over beginning july 1. 1968. and that is less than 7 months away. moreover. as the program periods of most community action agencies will have run out in 7 or 8 months. negotiations will have to begin almost immediately within each community. before new applications are submitted. to determine what group will be running the program in the future. it is very interesting to me to find that this whole matter is dismissed in a few paragraphs in the report of the managers on the part of the house. i can understand why. this is their "baby." they have brought it through the conference. in my judgment. it is a sad survival indeed.  they will  make too much talk about it. let me assure the senate. they dismiss our "clarifying amendments." as they are euphemistically called. in the report. the house managers include the following sentence:
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this time. a copy of the letter dated february 20. 1973. the article from the new york times of march 7. 1973. to which i referred earlier. as well as an additional article from the new york times of today which describes the dismal summer job outlook which will obtain in new york city unless nyc funds are provided. and. the statement submibted by the hon. richard g. hatcher. mayor of gary. ind.. for the national league of citiesu.s. conference of mayors before the senate subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty
