 of the united states in his inaugural address on january 21. 1957. stressed that while this great nation of ours enjoys many of the blessings of almighty god. the continent of europe stands tragically divided and beset by the divisive forces of international communism. he stated: . the designs of that power. dark in purpose. are clear in practice. it strives to break the ties that unite the free. and it strives to captureto exploit for its own greater powerall forces of change in the world. especially the needs of the hungry and the hopes of the oppressed. yet the world of international communism has itself been shaken by a fierce and mighty force: the readiness of men who love freedom to pledge their lives to that love. through the night of their bondage. the unconquerable will of heroes has struck with the swift. sharp. thrust of lightning. budapest is longer merely the name of a city: henceforth it is a new and shining symbol of mans yearning to be free. despite the frustrating inability of this country to aid the freedom fighters of hungary to a greater or more practical degree. we salute the hungarian patriots for recording a monumental triumph during the hungarian revolution. we salute their courage in fighting the tyranny of communism which has been unable to destroy the minds and spirits of its children. although their access to literature. and to unbiased information was throttled. the growing generation of hungary still learned freedoms meaning. we have seen the structure of communist society shattered by workers and students joining together to deliver a smashing blow. it is these groups upon which the communists have counted for their future and they k  that the students and the workers are  their chattels. and above all we have seen the units of family and church sustain the spirit of a people oppressed by ruthless men. the hungarian revolution ripped asunder the deceitful mask of coexistence from the soviet rulers. the neutral and uncommitted nations stand shocked and stunned by the evidence of soviet brutality and treachery in hungary. if there is any lingering doubt about soviet motives. the fighters in the streets of budapest have removed them. a special report by a commission appointed by the international rescue committee to study the hungarian refugee situation in austria closes as follows: as the bells toll in budapest  for hungarys martyrs. let us remember that they toll for us too. we can lift our hands to ease hungarys greatest sorrow by giving in the most generous of americas traditions to those who stand in critical need. and let us also stand proudly as free men. confirmed once more in the conviction of libertys strengthand eternally grateful for the courage and heroism that has brought us hungarys greatest triumph.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from the american jewish committee in support of this amendment and also writing on behalf of the following- organizations who also support the amendment: amercan civil- liberties union. american. .council for nationalities service.american immigration lawyers association. aflcio. . association of farmworker opportunity programs. friends committee on national legislation. international ladies garment workers union. aflcio. league of united latin american citizens. lutheran immigration and refugee service. mexican american legal defense and educational fund. national association of latielected and appointed officials. national coalition for haitian refugees. national council of la raza. national urban league. and the united states catholic conference. migration and refugee services.
