. i also submit for the record the subcommittee assignments for the committee on small business. the. number of subcommittees were reduced from nine to seven. the capital formation and retention subcommittee and the government regulation and paperwork subcommittee have been eliminated. due to the strong interest of the committee members on the tax simplification proposals and their impact on small business. all small business taxrelated issues will be elevated to the full committee. the government regulation and paperwork subcommittee will be folded into the government procurement subcommittee.
. i would like to annce that on june 10. 1985. the senate small business committee will hold a field hearing in chicago. il. on the administrations plan to tax employee benefits and the effect upon small business. the hearing will be held in the ceremonial courtroom 2525. of the dirksen federal building and will begin at 9:30 a.m. for further information call stewart hudson of the committee staff at 2240840 or tom walsh at 2243052. to meet
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee has rescheduled a hearing for july 3. 1985. in boston. ma. on the impact of tax reform proposals on small business. this hearing had been previously scheduled for june 3. 1985. the hearing will be held at the john f. kennedy federal office building and will begin at 9:30 a.m. for further information. please call stewart hudson of the committee staff. at 2245175 or jim brenner of senator kerrys staff at 2242742.
. i would like to. annce a change in the location of the senate small business committees july 3. 1985. hearing on the impact of tax reform proposals on small business. the hearing will  be held at the mccormick state office building. room 2100. boston. ma. it was originally scheduled to take place at the.john f. kennedy federal office building in boston. for further information. please call stewart hudson of the committee staff. at 2245175 or jim brenner of senator kerrys staff at 2242742.
 i think the answer is that over the years. because of the pressure of public opinionand this was a selfelevation. if you willthe judges got into the habit and practice of disqualifying themselves in any case in which they had an interest. and this practice went all the way. so far that if a man had a single share or a few shares of stock in a company. and some great public action was brought against it. whether for antitrust violations. violations of the tax laws. or anything else. he would disqualify himself. i have seen that happen again and again. when we come to the point that we will all voluntarily abide by that rule of the senate which says that in the case of a conflict of interest on a matter upon which the senate is called upon to vote. a senator shall ask to be disqualified. then i will say we do  need it. that this proposed rule is a dead letter. several senators addressed the chair.
. maurice stans. the new secretary of commerce. is very well kn as a leader in banking and finance in new york and throughout the country. his broad governmental experience includes the critically important office of budget director in the eisenhower administration. he will bring to the the office a distinguished professional point of view and a dedication to the public service in an area so critical to the success of the nixon administration. for there must be heavy reliance upon the private enterprise system for major aid with massive national problems as the new administration sees its role ahead. the new secretary will be able to attract this kind of private enterprise help and will be especially skilled in encouraging and using it effectively in government.
