madam president. i have been involved in addressing the needs for better child care for many years. in the past few weeks. as i have watched the debate on child care continue and the different proposals involvedand i might say the evolution is  yet completed apparentlyi have become increasingly concerned. it seems to me that our original goalproviding parents with child carehas become somewhat obscured. let me take a moment to outline what i think we are trying to accomplish. first and foremost. our goal is to ensure that the parents have access to decent childcare services for their children. more specifically. we want to make sure that parents. especially single lowincome parents. can afford child care and that they have some peace of mind that their children are being well cared for at childcare centers or n childcare homes. to achieve this goal. it seems to me we must address three important aspects of child care: affordability. availability and quality. this involves assisting parents in purchasing care. encouraging people to become care givers. providing opportunities for private and public partnerships in day care. developing new daycare facilities. and enhancing the quality of the care provided. given these goalsaffordability. quality. accessibilityhow do these bills before us size up. the abc package includes an authorization for $1.75 billion. that is the authorization level. the appropriation level could be less than that. in any event. it provides for a direct grant to states to enhance and encourage childcare services. one hundred percent of this funding would go directly to the states. it is then split up into the following four categories. seventy percent must be used for direct assistance to the families. that is 70 percent. twelve percent must be used to increase the availability of care. ten percent must be used to improve the quality of carefor exemple. better training for the providers. finally. 8 percent is provided for state administrative costs. let us review the numbers: 70 percent for direct assistance to families. through vouchers. through contracts. through grants. the method of funding is left up to the states. twelve percent of the funding goes toward increasing the availability of the care. for example. the state may choose to offer lowinterest loans or grants to potential providers to provide the setting for day care centers. ten percent must be used to improve the quality of care. and finally 8 percent is allotted for the state administrative costs. direct assistance means a direct subsidy to poor families. quality and availability means encouraging expansion of facilities. resource and referral programs through which parents can learn of childcare services. publicprivate partnerships. training. and grants or loans to caregivers. among other things. to receive the funding. a state must establish its own childcare standards. and put up a 20percent match. this is 8020. 80 percent federal. 20 percent match from the states. again. it is then up to the states to decide just how the assistance is distributed. but the states distribution scale must focus on families with the lowest income. so that in the case of the very poor. they could receive fullysubsidized daycare services. the abc package also includes a tax credit. during tax reform in 1986. millions of poor families were taken off the tax rolls. by this action. we inadvertently disqualified those same families from receiving the dependent care tax credit. the abc package corrects that inequity by making refundable. and slightly increasing. the existing dependent care credit for the lowestincome individuals. this will made it possible for lowincome families to receive a credit of 30 to 34 percent of their child care expenses of up to $2.400 for one child or $4.800 for two or more children. these are the basic childcare provisions abc package before us.  let us examine the proposed substitute. like abc. the substitute makes refundable the existing dependent care tax credit so that poor families might benefit. again. these poor families will be eligible to receive a credit. in their weekly paycheck. toward their childcare expenses whether or  they earn egh to owe the federal government any tax. the substitute proposal also has a direct grant. of which 100 percent is given to the states to enhance childcare services. the proposal would provide $400 million per year to the states for this purpose. and require the states to provide a 15percent match. seven percent of these funds would be reserved for administrative costs. the remaining amounts could be used at the states discretion for activities such as encouraging the expansion of facilities. it might be used for what is kn as resource and referral programs. where a parent could call to find out about local childcare services. some of it could also be used for publicprivate partnerships or training or grants or loans to care givers. loans for safety and health purposes. this part of the substitute is quite similar to the abc proposal. but there is a major difference. the substitute package would  allow the funds to be used to directly subsidize childcare services. neither could funds be used to pay for the construction of new childcare facilities. or to satisfy the matching requirements for aher federal grant. in addition. the substitute proposal creates a young child supplement to the existing earned .ncome tax credit. the earned income tax credit would be changed so that the lowincome families could receive an additional amount of credit if they have a child under age 5. for the first child. the family may receive aher 8percent credit. for two or more children under the age of 5. the family receives an additional 4percent credit. as with the existing earned income tax credit. both spouses do  have to work in order to receive the credit. there is question that both of these measuresthe substitute proposal and the abc packageattempt to reach our goal: access to decent child care for parents and for their children. i am  at all convinced. however. that either bill sticks to this goal. both include provisions that seem to me to be ineffective or just plain unrelated to our childcare goal. as a result. in both proposals we have provisions which. in my view. are incorrectly labeled as childcare provisions. the abc package. kn as a childcare package. contains a new health credit and a revision of section 89. it is difficult to fathom how either health credits or section 89 directly relates to child care. i hope that the section 89 revision will ultimately be separated from any childcare package. while it is clear that section 89 has business being included in this package. the inclusion of the proposed healthcare credit is less clear. this proposal was developed under the rubric of child care. but it has little to do with childcare matters. i am distressed that it has been added to the abc bill. for the past 8 years. many of usparticularly those in the finance committeehave worked tirelessly to improve the health care status of lowincome children and their families by improving and expanding the medicaid program. we have struggled every year to find small amounts of money to pay for limited expansions in the coverage. but today we are talking about a $1.5 billion proposal that does  expand healthcare coverage at all. but rather subsidizes those families already receiving healthcare coverage. the estimate of this provision does  recognize any increased number of individuals who will be covered by it. in other words. the $1.5 billion is solely for those already paying for health insurance. we would be relieving them of the burden of paying for their current level of health insurance coverage. if we used this same amount of money to pay for an expansion of medicaid. we could assist up to four times as many individuals who are currently without any healthcare coverage. in a time of limited funding. it seems to me wasteful to consider a proposal which does  address increased access to care. the substitute also has its flaws. it includes an expansion of the earned income tax credit that carries a cost initially estimated at around $1.5 billion. the funding that it would provide for lowincome families falls far short of truly helping those families pay for structured and reliable childcare services. the small additional credits that would go to those families could  make significant dents in $2.500 worth of annual childcare expenses. indeed. the money is  tried to childcare expenses. child care for many lowincome families is a cost that can nearly equal the cost of rent. an additional 8 percent credit is  the answer to paying for child care. in addition. the substitute provides a block grant program which precludes states from using funds to subsidize the cost of child care for lowincome families. if we are here to address child care. why are we choosing between two packages that are cluttered with other matters. all of these other thingssection 89. the expansion of the earned income tax credit. health creditshave substantial price tag: literally in the billions of dollars. and yet we are  debating any of those provisions. most of which were drafted and brought to the floor in a matter of days. if those provisions were singled out and debated on their merits. i have grave doubts they would receive as much support. we have a tremendous national budget deficit. and we must ensure that we reserve our spending for our priorities. we are looking at some very difficult times ahead. hard times that will be felt by our children and our grandchildren. but here we are considering provisions with huge price tags that have very little to do with the matter at hand: child care. i. for one. have been one of the most consistent and outspoken proponents of improved health care services for children in lowincome families. the health care tax credit will  achieve that goal. at a later date i may well propose an amendment to strike this healthcare provision because. as one deeply involved in these issues. i strongly believe we can find a more effective way to spend that $1.5 billion. i would rather see the money spent on the medicaid program. on which i and other senators on the finance committee have been working for many years. i also feel strongly about expansion of the earned income tax credit. given our goal of child care. it right  seems to me to be an inappropriate use of limited funds. it seems to me that we ought to spend our time right  considering child care and child care alone.
madam president. i would just make a couple of points if i may in rebuttal to the distinguished senator from alaska. he was mistaken when he said that i am limiting the position to those that are currently filled. i did  do that. i dealt. instead. with the authorized levels. in other words. there are currently 1.108 employees and 1.203 available positions. i worked with the 1.203. so i did  say to the armed services committee or whatever committee it might be. how nice of you. you are frugal. you cut back but you are planning on taking up a surge loadas it would. for instance. in the budget committee. at a certain timeand i have restricted you back to the employees you have .  i have  done that. i have worked with the authorized positions. that is the first point. the second point is that it is extremely unfortunate. it seems to me. that what is an emergency load and an increase in the number of positions that a committee needs this year becomes the floor of the committee positions for the next year. in other words. let us say that committee a has a very important bill. a heavy load. and therefore the rules committee says yes. you need seven more positions. we will give you the seven more positions. . the measure is handled. the measure is passed. it goes to conference. we february 28. 1.991 s 24:84 february 28. 1991 coqi confer with the house. we need the staff. and the bill is done with. but we do  find that committee going back the next year and saying thank you very much for the extras you gave us. we will give you back the seven people.  that becomes the floor for that committee. the permanent floor of the number on that committee. and you build on that. therefore. we never see a decline in the committee. i sympathize and undertand the points the senator from alaska made about going to conference with the house. but that has been true for years. sure we go to conference with the house and we find the house has a roomful of staff and we have a few. i like to think we have quality. i like to think that we have done very well. i do  think anybody in this senate will say we have been bamboozled by the house in conferences. we have held our own. last year i was a member of two conference committees at the same time dealing with clean air and dealing with medicaid provisions. with the ways and means committee and the commerce committee. they had many more staff than we had. but we were able to handle ourselves. we did  think we were overcome. we did  think we were blown out of the water by a series of movements by the house and all its staff members. so i really do  think that is a justifiable reason for increasing the number of staff. so. madam president. i hope this amendment will be adopted. it gives tremendous power to the rules committee. it says to the rules committee you can move these people around. i would be interested in. sometime. having an explanation of why these three particular committees have so many people. the governmental affairs has 124 people. the labor committee  only has 124 people but. if this does  gall my colleagues. they are going to get 3 more. they are going up to 127. they are going to e out the governmental affairs committee for second place in staff size. and they are edging judiciary which holds steady at 138.
. i ice others wish to speak. i would merely point out to the senator from connecticut--and i am sure he is conscious of this--that already we have tremendous incentives for individuals to invest in iras. the buildup is tax free. if you are in the income bracket the senator from connecticut was talking about. there is a deduction available. after all. that is pretty nice. plus we have these added features that i have  changed in my amendment which would permit individuals to withdraw from an iraira standing for retirement. but we have done away with that under the proposal. so an individual can withdraw for education. health expenses. firsttime home buying and so forth. i thank the chair.
s new welfare proposals. it will be necessary to create and staff a large number of daycare facilities. and to expand greatly the quality and quantity of jobtraining programs. our older citizens. who have worked all their lives. raised their families. and learned the skills which only long experience can teach. are in a unique position to make invaluable contributions to these programs. i believe they should receive every incentive to do so. a complete removal of the earnings limitation for this crucial kind of public service would serve both as a recognition of the need for the contribution and as a reward for those who chose this path. the second bill which i am introducing would accomplish this goal. a third matter which deserves to be corrected is the serious decline in income which is often encountered as a result of the death of a spouse. expenditures for certain items. such as housing. heat. water and electricity. transportation and similar services remain essentially the same. the only decline in costs which may be encountered is in the area of food or clothing or medical services. and depending upon individual circumstances. even these adjustments may be minimal. at the present time a widow or widower is entitled to only 82/2 percent of the benefits which the couple received jointly during the life of the spouse. the bill which i am introducing would raise this entitlement to 90 percent. which i believe to be a more realistic figure in view of the expenses involved. aher problem frequently arises with regard to dependent spouses who have  themselves attained the age of eligibility. but yet are dependent upon the older partners income from social security payments. the death of the social security recipient frequently leaves the dependent partner destitute. and faced with the alternatives of returning to work at the age of 50 or 60. or receiving welfare. many persons in such circumstances would want to return to work. and should be encouraged to do so. but there are others who. for physical or emotional reasons. may be unable to assume the responsibilities of employment. such persons should be permitted the alternative of choosing to receive a portion of the spouses social security benefits. though at a permanently reduced level geared to the age of the intended recipient. as a safeguard against fraud. the legislation which i am proposing contains a requirement that the marriage shall have lasted for at least 10 years in order for the dependent spouse to be eligible for this provision. . closely related to this problem is the case of a dependent spouse under the age of 65 who is  eligible to participate in medicare. and yet is dependent upon the husbands or wifes social security payments and finds the cost of adequate private insurance prohibitive. some provision should be made for including such persons under the medicare system. if the family income is insufficient to enable them reasonably to secure medical insurance from any other source. therefore. a fifth bill. which i am introducing. woud permit dependent spouses to be included in the medicare benefits of the qualified partner if their joint income does  exceed $5.000 per year. the last bill which i am proposing today pertains to the problem of social security deductions from the earnings of older persons. many of our elderly citizens have found. to their surprise and dismay. that a social security tax is deducted from their earnings even in cases where those earnings are within the present limitation and where the persons are themselves recipients of social security benefits. in some cases. an individual may wish to have these taxes deducted in order to acquire additional quarters of work and thereby qualify for full social security benefits. in the vast majority of instances. however. the tax simply amounts to a further reduction in an already limited income. therefore. i am proposing a bill which would permit a person over 65 to elect to have his wages from employment or selfemployment excluded from the social security tax. i am hopeful that these proposals will receive prompt consideration. and will help to bring some needed measure of relief to those who deserve to enjoy.  to dread. the rest of their retirement years.
i want to assure the senator from kansas that. first of all. i did  charge the senator with desiring to gut the program. i ultimately did  use the word "gut." i think the effect of the amendment might be to impair the effectiveness of the program and. on the one hand. i applaud the senator from kansas for  adding money to the bill. but. on the other hand. i would. perhaps. rather see him. if he really believes we need more money for consultation. add money to the bill for consultation and  take money away from inspection because. as i pointed out to the senator from kansas. we only have sufficient compliance officers at the present time to inspect 5 percent of the nations businesses. . the purpose of inspection. first of all. is to find out if there are any violations of the law. but. it also serves as an incentive for employers to improve the safety conditions in their plants. it also serves as a deterrent. so it has many advantages. i do  think the senator from kansas would want to see us have a program where we did  have sufficient inspections. when i tell him 5 percent is the figure. i am sure he will accept that figure as fact. but that is the number. the only percentage that we are able to inspect at the present time. because of money constraints we only go up 2 percent to 7 percent by adding the additional inspectors that we do add in this bill. this includes the additional 833 i spoke of. if the senator believes that $15 million can be used for consultationand let me say that i personally agree we ought to have consultation. i agree with secretary of labor dunlops statement exactly. i do  want to see any punitive measures being used by inspectors in my state or in kansas or any other state. for that matter. where consultations can be effective certainly we ought to use them. we ought to use them in most instances. but i want to assure the senator that we have in this bill already $5 million for consultation purposes. in addition to that we have $38 million for the states that operate their own osha programs. in addition to that the national institute of occupational safety and health already conducts a consultation program. i am just suggesting to the senator that we have more money than we can actually use. last year we had $5 million for consultation and they only used $3 million. so they gave back $2 million. this year we put $5 million more in. we would have put more in had we thought there was more money needed or that could be used by osha for consultation purposes. but what i am suggesting. most respectfully. to the senator from kansas is that we are thrusting upon them by his amendment $10 million more than the $5 million they would get in this bill as reported. $15 million. when they only could use $3 million in the last fiscal year. i would hope the senator would recognize the necessity for the 833 inspectors. first of all. because. as i said. 7 percent is still a small percentage of the businesses that would be inspected. so it is  by any means an unreasonable figure. 7 percent. in addition to that. i hope the senator would recognize. unless he has some evidence to the contrary. that osha just can use $15 million. and if he comes to that conclusion it seems to me that at the best he would want to modify his amendment at least to some figure that osha could use realistically rather than thrusting upon them $15 million. the senator. of course. is a most distinguished conservative member of this body. he wants to see us cut costs. and i k he did  want to add to this bill. and i appreciate that and i respect it. but. on the other hand. i just want to point out to him that his amendment would be. in my opinion. appropriating money that just could  be used.
. i point out this is a bill with regard to which the late senator langer. our dear departed colleague. was the principal sponsor and i was a cosponsor. in a sense. i am picking up the torch from the place where the late senator langer because of an act of divine providence laid it for someone else to pick up and run with. at the present time. women over 62 years of age and men over 65 do  receive full benefits under the oldage and survivors section of the social security act if they earn more than $1.200 annually. or more than $100 in any month. until they reach the age of 72 when the earnings limitation longer applies. in order that this important amendment to the social security act which was previously introduced by our distinguished former colleague. the late senator langer. may be actively pursued in this body during the current session. i am submitting it this year. the house ways and means committee is reported to be scheduling early consideration of social security amendments and this bill. introduced in the other body by several representatives. is pending before it so that there is every reason to hope for action on it in the near future. the social security administration estimates that 2 million persons would benefit if this amendment were adopted. that is the approximate number of individuals who. although they or aher wageearning member of their family have already contributed the full amount required by law. are  receiving their full social security payments because either by choice or. more likely. by necessity. they are continuing to work full or parttime. they get a sum below the average annual payment of about $850 which is received by the social security beneficiaries or their dependents who are fully retired. if an individuals wages exceed the modest annual figure of $2.080. he is  eligible to receive a single dollar in social security payments despite the fact that he is paid up in full under the system until he attains the age of 72. in view of the impact of inflation on our ecoy resulting in a marked increase in the cost of such basic items as food costs. rent. clothing. and particularly hospitalization and medical care which are of special concern to older age groups. the present earnings limitations under social security are unrealistic and impose a severe hardship on many of our senior citizens who continue to contribute their talents and service to u.s. business and industry. by adopting this proposed amendment. the congress would be removing an inequitable provision of the social security act and at the same time be taking full cognizance of the needs of our older citizens who have devoted their working lives to the upbuilding of our nation and its ecoy.
on the first subject i would say that i. too. join with the senator in feeling that i should attend the rally. and i will. i believe that the expressions which were used in the invitation are expressions of intense belief which those who are demonstrating hold on the subject of their demonstration. i did  take it amiss. i hope very much that other senators will . though i appreciate the views of the senator from florida on that subject. in the substantive point which the senator has raised. it is one of the real aspects of this situation. namely. the ecoic side and the job side. antidiscrimination alone does  solve it. because though we would give opportunities. we do  wish. and would . preempt the opportunities of others. because that would  be justice. there is. of course. the general effort which must be made. and on which we have fallen down very badly. and that is in connection with the matter of the endemic unemployment problem. and the gearing up of the american ecoy to a higher e of employment and productivity. i have given my prescription for that. as has the senator from pennsylvania. who is as ardent as i am. the specialized aspect. however. requires attention. i believe that there is a very good case for a specialized effort. from the standpoint of making it possible for negroes to compete on the basis of the possession of equipment and training. i am against quotas for jobs. but i believe that in this connection they should receive preference. because there exists an opportunity for real discrimination. an analysis prepared at the request of the joint ecoic committee shows that there would be an absolute gain in the american gross national product of an estimated $13 to $17 billion annually if there could be an effective utilization of negroes on the basis of their present state of training and education. thus contributing measurably to our national productivity. if discrimination became real. rather than as it is . so often hoed in the breach rather than in performance. i thank the senator for his most pertinent observations.
. every year i make a report to my constituents in new york state on the current session of congress and on my own activities during the past year. this is my 18th report. and it comes at a time when the congress and the nation are preoccupied with the vietnam war and the threat of inflation. our involvement in asia set the mood of congress this session and affected legislative activities in many ways. i have mixed feelings of gratification and disappointment concerning this session. it is gratifying because as ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare and joint congressional ecoic committees and as a member of the judiciary and the government operations committees. i was able to help shape and guide much important legislation through the congress. in all. 71 measures that i sponsored and 42 that i cosponsored were enacted cxii- 1763part 21 into law in the 89th congress. an additional 29 measures which i either sponsored or cosponsored were passed by the senate. among the major achievements of the session in which i was particularly active are: the increase in the minimum wage and the extension of its coverage. auto and highway safety legislation. the demonstration cities program. federal aid for nurses training. the continuation and expansion of the antipoverty program. and aid to higher. elementary and secondary and international education. but the session was disappointing because its overall record was characterized by legislative lag and failure to come to grips with two major domestic problems facing our countryinflation and civil rights. particularly distressing was the failure of the senate to close off a filibuster and bring to a vote the civil rights act of 1966 which would have helped end discrimination in housing and jury selection and provide federal protection for civil rights workers. i feel thisas well as efforts to cripple enforcement of earlier acts prohibiting segregation in hospitals and schoolswas caused by untoward resentment against riots and racial disorders in many of our cities and against advocates of an illdefined "black power" slogan. inflation could have been dampened if congress and the administration took proper measures early. instead. a muchdiluted suspension of the 7percent tax credit for investment was enacted. much too little and too late to have a material effect on the drastically increasing costs of living. high interest rates and tight money. legislative lag was also evident in the number of major bills left until the last minute. such as measures to continue the antipoverty program and aid to education programs. passed months after funds from the previous fiscal year had run out. it was evident again in the failure to reform our draft law. even when its inequities were underscored by the vietnam situation. i introduced a resolution and testified in support of a proposal for national service providing more equitable selection procedures and opportunities for both military and military assignment in the national interest. because of the failures of the last session. much unfinished business remains. we must make a new effort to modify senate rule xxii. which allows filibustersthe device through which a miity of the senate can keep the majority from even voting on legislation. as in the past. i plan to be in the forefront of this fight and in the effort to enact meaningful civil rights legislation. also required will be legislation to deal in the national interest with national emergency strikes. to provide a system of federalstate tax sharing. to improve unemployment compensation and social security benefits. to help modernize our hospitals and to bring about effective congressional reform. including a code of ethics for legislators. i will continue to work with gover rockefeller and the new york congressional delegation to assure that our state receives equitable treatment under federal grantinaid programs. these represent the highlights of the past year and i will  go into the details of the 2d session of the 89th congress.
. on behalf of myself. the senator from california . the senator from hawaii. . the senator from michigan . and the senator from utah [mr. moss]. i introduce a bill to amend the unemployment tax act to require state law coverage of ceitain employees of profit organizations and state hospitals and institutions of higher education and ask that it be appropriately referred. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
i thank my colleague. as i say. i do  want to engage in debate today. but i do feel that dr. burns should have his day in court. we all k there is very grave feeling that somehow inflation has defeated all of our conventional means and that it has been accompanied by equally sticky unemployment. i suppose the country might be said to be divided almost 5050 on which is the worse curse. i happen to think unemployment is. and so does senator humphrey. but. etheless. this is a very big issue. so all i am suggesting is to give the good doctor a chance to reply and. hopefully. i can get it overnight and read it into the record.
