the senator is absolutely correct. i should like to call the attention of senators to a law enacted in georgia in 1955. in a further effort to block any possible desegregation of the public schools. it has been made a felony. punishable by 2 years imprisonment. for any school official of the state. municipal. or county system to spend tax money for public schools in which the races are mixed. the reference to that law is act 82. georgia laws. 1955. so the comment made by my colleague from illis is absolutely pertinent. and is borne out by the provisions of law. before the congress can think of a remedy it must deal with the existence of a rightand that right does existto attend a desegregated public school. according to the supreme courts decision as to what our constitution provides in that regard. in addition. congress would  legislate unless it found that there was need for law in order to bring about the enjoyment of such right. i think that is absolutely unquestioned. i have a report on this subject from the southern regional council of atlanta. ga.. of august 10. 1959. which has been brought up to date. to qualify that particular organization. one which has been cited on the floor of the senate previously. i invite attention to the fact that it is an organization which is recognized as an organization with quite liberal views. but certainly it is an entirely respectable organization. it was referred to by the able senator from alabama on page 3243 self called the attention of the senate to a report made by the very same body. he says that that organization is a biracial organization which has been working for a good many years toward bettering race relations in the south. and bettering conditions generally. and that it is  some southern conservative clique which is advocating a certain view. he is referring to the southern regional council. which is quite liberal in its views. drawing upon the work of this organization. which. as i say. is a respectable and reputable organization. we find the present situation to be as follows: desegregation whatever has appeared in the public schools of five states. namely. alabama. georgia. louisiana. mississippi. and south carolina. and in the remaining six states of the socalled deep south. varying degrees of resistance have been manifested in the years after 1954. and by 1959 they held desegregation to minimal levels.
