. several weeks ago i had an opportunity to participate in the opening of a housing exhibit in the soviet city of minsk. this exhibit. called "techogy for the american home." sponsored by the u.s. information agency. featured such items as sample rooms. appliances. and home construction methods. all of these were of great interest to soviet visitors. the exhibits primary feature. however. in the eyes of the 1.2 million soviet citizens who have stood in line for up to 8 hours to see it. was its 22 young american russianspeaking guides. for many of the soviet visitors to the exhibit. this was their first and possibly only contact in a lifetime with an american. it was their only opportunity to ask those questions which they had always wanted answeredabout this country and its culture and people. an urban worker might be surprised to learn that workers in the united states enjoy unemployment benefits and medical insurance. a farmer might be concerned with indoor plumbing or the price of a cow. but whatever the questions. and whatever the response. every soviet visitor was left with an impression of a cordial. honest. and informed young american with whom he had spoken. these young guides are to be commended. as is the agency which regularly sponsors such exhibits and programs in the soviet union and eastern europe. these exhibits provide a forum in which literally millions of people. who may never be allowed to travel abroad and might otherwise never be able to converse with an american in their own tongue. can learn something of western society. and the system and the people which produced it. i ask unanimous consent that two newspaper articles. recounting the experiences and impressions of the american guides. be printed in the record.
the significance of this report is that it calls for major areas of executive action by the president. i have ed six such areas. i think the report emphasizes the fact that the implementation of great words will be what will count. rather than the brave words alone. admirable as they are. i agree thoroughly with the statement of the distinguished senator from wisconsin . which has just been uttered concerning the president. i was sorry to see that civil rights was "kissed off" in the message to congress by one sentence. and  a very powerful one. the presidents message related  only to foreign policies of this country. but domestic policies. i am deeply disquieted that we have been hearing only about legislative action. and  executive action as well. because i am completely convinced that school desegregation can be successfully carried through except with executive action as well as legislative action. executive action is called for in the report in six areas. i shall conclude my statement by mentioning them: first. the president is urged to publicly affirm his full support of the supreme courts 1954 decision and his intention to employ his executive powers as needed to assure orderly compliance with it. second. it is urged that an anncement be made that. at a date certain. research funds will be granted by the federal government to any institution of higher learning. or its faculty. public or private. which refuses admission to anyone because of race. creed. color. or national origin. third. a national registration drive. under the personal sponsorship of the president. should be launched and supported by publications describing registration and voting qualifications and procedures in each state. fourth. desegregation of the national guard in southern states is urged. fifth. there is a need for certification by government contractors in advance that one will be denied employment because of race. this can be done by executive action. sixth. a declaration by the president that federal housing programs will be guided by integration rather than by segregation policies. these are the specifications set forth by a distinguished group. here are policies that can be implemented. to the credit of america. i ask unanimous consent that the specific proposals of the southern regional council may be included in the record at this point in my remarks.
