. i have labored for 7 years on the effort to resolve the niagara power controversy. today the senate has before it a bill which offers the bright hope that. at long lazt. that controversy shall be ended. and ended it must be. at this session of the congress. one consideration is paramountthat construction of this project may begin immediately to meet a desperate need for additional hydroelectric power from the waters of the niagara river. my efforts during these 7 years have been devoted to helping to bring the parties at interest together. it has been a lengthy and most difficult task. the bill before us is a compromise. as such it can please all of the parties at interest in all of its details. in fact. it can please anyone completely. but it is a bill that all of the parties can live with. a bill that will produce the power and distribute it equitably. it is a bill which will rescue a vital industrial area from a decline threatening it by virtue of the high cost and temporary nature of emergency power  being obtained from canada. in this connection. i point out that this is the first time that all the interests in new york statepolitical. ecoic. business. and other interestshave united on a bill of this nature. democrats and republicans. private power interests and public power interests are united in favor of the bill. as we k. this bill is before us because the senate attached a reservation to the 1950 treaty with canada which divides the waters of the niagara river between the united states and canada. that reservation specified that the congress must pass upon the development of future hydroelectric power from the american share of the niagaras waters. the controversy began as a struggle between advocates of a federal power project on the one hand and of private enterprise on the other. late in 1951. however. i proposed that the state of new york build the project in accordance with the law of new york state providing for state development. the extremes of the controversy are implicit in the legislative history of this issue. in the 83d congress. the house passed a bill providing for development of the project by private enterprise. the senate refused to go along. in the 84th congress. the senate passed a bill which provided that the project be constructed by the power authority of the state of new york. but that bill contained a preference clause governing distribution of the power in such a fashion that almost 90 percent of the power generated could be distributed outside the state of new york. the house did  concur. . however. we have for consideration a bill identical with the measure which was passed by the house on august 1. 1957. by a vote of 313 to 75.  is the time to bring this issue to a head and resolve it. * i should like to e. in passing. the situation with respect to niagara as it involves the federal courts. some time ago. the united states circuit court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled on the reservation attached to the treaty with canada by the senate in 1950. by a 2to1 decision. the court held that the reservation was in fact merely an expression of opinion on the part of the senate as to a domestic issue. if this decision is  appealed by the federal power commission. or if upon appeal it should be upheld by the supreme court. the power commission could then proceed to issue a license to the new york state power authority to begin the project forthwith. new york state would actually be better off under this set of circumstances than it would be under the legislation  being considered. nevertheless. in the interests of expediting a solution of this problem and of fairness to other states involved. particularly ohio and pennsylvania. i feel it is essential that we proceed with the bill  before us. what we decide here will of course supersede any action of the courts or the federal power commission. delay has been costly. the project planned by the new york state power authority will  cost about $600 millionall of which will be raised by issuing bonds. had it been started in 1950. it would have cost $385 million. rising construction and interest costs account for the difference. todays project will require a bond issue totaling approximately $600 million. the delay thus far has increased construction costs by considerably more than $200 million and the cost of raising the money by many millions of dollars more. the effect on the industrial complex of the niagara frontier has also been costly. though less measurable. this is a territory of electrochemical and electrometallurgical industry. depending upon lowcost hydroelectric power. the need for additional power in this area has existed for years. if industry in that territory were to expand. the rock slide in june of last year which wiped out the bulk of the power production from the american waters of the niagara river transformed an undesirable situation into a critical one. most of the electric current  used on the niagara frontier comes from canada. it is high priced. and there is guaranty as to how long it will be available. the best estimate is that by starting the new york state power authority project this year. it can go into production just in time to take over the job when the canadian power will longer be there for the use of american industries. i do  believe that there is any question about the urgency of this project. one disputes the ecoic feasibility or desirability of development of the niagara rivers full power potential. all parties agree that the power authority of the state of new york should build the project and market the power. thanks particularly to the leadership of the distinguished senior senator from oklahoma . the public works committee has produced a bill which makes it possible for the new york state power authority to market the bonds essential for financing this project. the bill. which the house very recently passed so overwhelmingly. is identical. that bill is  before the senate. it substantially conforms to new york state law and protects the interests of new york state. unlike its predecessor in the 84th congress. yet it also provides adequately. and more than adequately. for the future needs of rural cooperatives and municipal utility systems in new york. ohio. and pennsylvania. this bill contains a federal preference clause modified to accommodate the plain facts of the situation concerning this particular project. we are neither doing violence to a principle  establishing a precedent in this legislation. this is  a federal power project. it is a new york state project financed by the private sale of bonds by the taxpayers. cooperative and municipal systems in ohio and pennsylvania will get a fair share of power under this bill. i might e here that the legislatures of pennsylvania and ohio have  thus far seen fit to create state agencies which would contract with the new york state power authority for the niagara power which may be requested in those states. but if it should be sought. the power will be there. we in new york state have desire to be selfish about this power. we want ohio and pennsylvania to have a fair share. we want cooperative and municipal systems to flourish wherever they are needed. but we plead with our colleagues for a realistic approach. we urge that this is primarily a new york project. to be built by new york. to be financed by new york. and to meet power needs which are largely in new york. i therefore urge the senate to adopt this bill as passed by the house and as reported by the committee on public works. without amendment. so the costly delay and controversy on this issue may draw to a close
is the senator from wisconsin aware of a telegram which i have just received from rene dupuis. commissioner of the quebec hydroelectric commission. bearing on additional losses to the province of quebec which would result from a diversion of 1.000 cubic feet per second of water. as proposed by the bill.
it has been converted into methane gas. into use as a renewable derived fuel for steam. and into metha. where we have a proven record at union carbide. for example. in new york. and for various industrial chemicals. there is a demonstration plant for the conversion of garbage and waste at charleston. w. va. our estimate is that 75 to 80 percent of the municipal solid wastes are convertible to some form of energy.
