. from may 13. 2004. more than 1.200 students from across the united states will visit washington. dc. to take part in the national finals of "we the people: the citizen and the constitution." an educational program developed specifically to educate. young people about the u.s. constitution and bill of rights. administered by the center for civic education. the "we the people" program is funded by the u.s. department of education by act of congress. i am proud to annce that students from central falls high school will represent the state of rhode island in this national event. these outstanding students. through their kledge of the u.s. constitution. won their statewide competition and earned the chance to come to washington and compete at the national level. the threeday "we the people" national finals competition is modeled after hearings in the u.s-. congress.. the students are. given an.opportutity to demonstrate their kledge before. a: panel of judges while they evaluate. take. and defend positions on relevant historical and contemporary issues. i wish these students the best of luck at the "we the people" national finals and applaud their achievement. i am sure that this valuable experience will encourage these young rhode islanders to remain engaged with government and public policy issues in the future.*
. from may 13. 2004. more than 1.200 students from across the united states will visit washington. dc. to take part in the national finals of "we the people: the citizen and the constitution." an educational program developed specifically to educate. young people about the u.s. constitution and bill of rights. administered by the center for civic education. the "we the people" program is funded by the u.s. department of education by act of congress. i am proud to annce that students from central falls high school will represent the state of rhode island in this national event. these outstanding students. through their kledge of the u.s. constitution. won their statewide competition and earned the chance to come to washington and compete at the national level. the threeday "we the people" national finals competition is modeled after hearings in the u.s-. congress.. the students are. given an.opportutity to demonstrate their kledge before. a: panel of judges while they evaluate. take. and defend positions on relevant historical and contemporary issues. i wish these students the best of luck at the "we the people" national finals and applaud their achievement. i am sure that this valuable experience will encourage these young rhode islanders to remain engaged with government and public policy issues in the future.*
i see. i suppose that the proponents of the underlying amendment. or others if  proponents. might well try and tar those of us. such as the senator from connecticut. and i am supportive of his position. who are protesting the helms amendment. i suppose some might find it a convenient occasion to label the senator and his allies in this effort as probusing. i might say that i have reservations on busing. but i would also like to say that i think to remove busing completely as a tool in trying to achieve racial desegregation would be unfortunate. i look on busing as a last resort measure. i think busing certainly should be considered.  as the sole measure  as the primary measure. but as a possible tool to achieve desegregation. however. under the helms amendment. as i understand it. and reviewing what we went over a few minutes ago. that busing would  be permitted either directly or indirectly in any kind of a solution. am i correct in my judgment that this amendment is blatantly uiconstitutional. that if it were approved. it would remove from the executive branch the only power the executive branch has to assure that federal funds are spent in a constitutional manner. that it would require the executive branch to continue to fund school districts that it ks to be unconstitutionally segregr.ted. here is a question: am i correct in saying we have a law on the books. the supreme court. in interpreting the constitution of the united states. says that certain actions have to be taken. if this legislation were passed. it would say that it is fine to have the law on the books. but that portion of the u.s. government responsibility for enforcing the laws would  be permitted to act. am i correct in that.
. today. in 1978. the emerging nations of latin america and the world are testing the values of democracy and totalitarianism by how each system lives up to its ideals at home and hos them abroad. with the growth of freedom at stake. our words had better match our deeds. we must as a people put aside the concept that a nations strength is measured only in its armaments. its gnp or its natural resources. what good are any of these things without a committed people. without a motivated people. like all of you. most of my colleagues on this floor. anyway tho3e of my age or older. whenever we saw versions of the starspangled banner. they inevitably were illustrated with both flamboyant and gory battle scenes of the american revolution. meant to exemplify patriotism. i commend to each of you an illustrated version of the starspangled banner by peters speir which differs from the traditional version. illustrating the first words of our national anthem there are the traditional paintings of the bombardment of fort mchenry with which we are all familiar. but then when it gets to the second stanza. discussing our strength. there are pictures of combines in a wheatfleld. of scientists in a laboratory. men on the moon. bulldozers in an urban area. this is the strength of the united states of america also.  exactly what i was taught. any more than this experience with panama is what i was taught. but it is the truth. and it is as much this nation as our military prowess. indeed it should be more so if we are to prevail in the future. i started off with the words. and i will end with themi can think of any better-"right makes might." that is why this treaty is going to pass this chamber. one can doubt or will ever doubt the techogical superiority of the united states of america. i want this occasion. though. to be a superior first step on the march to our next centennial. what is it that my generation and the generations of my children and grandchildren will have stood for. and did we have the guts to take our stand when it meant something.  years and years from . when obviously the circumstances or the times would make the treaty an easy choiceand it will be so. you k that as well as i do. our battle today is against vestiges of the past. we are going to have a treaty. but why  do it when it is a test of character. when it means something to vote "aye". like anything else. you can measure the success in terms of the gamble. there is a great prize at stake here for the united states and for the principles that we stand for in this battle for mens minds across the world and in our own hemisphere. ours is a decent nation. ours is a fair nation. and ours is a nation that has the courage to make both those traits stick. that is the united states i remember. that is the one worth dying for. again.  using my words. but in the words of james russell lowell: then it is the brave man chooses while the coward stands aside. till the multitude makes virtue of the faith they have denied. the name of the song: "once to every man and nation." there will  be many more times in our lifetime when we have such an opportunity. the words. the principles of the constitution of the united states have  changed. and  comes that test of our ability to take those words and act them out. it is  easy at home. or abroad. recently. one of our colleagues recently died. and man more thoroughly used a lifetime to try to make americas words come true. to a large degree he stood alone. while observing hubert humphreys funeral the other day. i could only think to myself that if someone really wanted to pay a tribute to hubert humphrey. maybe a few of those who made it because of hubert humphrey. could pay tribute to the man by standing alone for someone else. that would be a real tribute. about a year agoin making a high school commencement address. i told the graduating class: -i could wish hing better for each of you than that once in your lifetime you would stand alone on behalf of somebody or something. if the millions of people in this country would do that all at the same time. that would define the united states of america. it would be a strength ody could lick. we would have recovered from some dim years in our recent past. once again. we would be the strongest nation in the world
let me read to the senator the appropriate clause of the bill relating to the establishment of religious freedom which jefferson himself wrote. section 2. we. the general assembly of virginia. do enact that manit does  say men or women or 10yearolds or 2yearoldsshould be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship. place. or ministry whatsoever.  shall be enforced. restrained. molested. or burdened in his body or goods. or shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or beliefs. but that all men shall be free to profess and by argument to maintain their opinions in matters of religion and the same shall in ise diminish. enlarge or affect their civil capacities. this brings me back to the request i made of the senator: where is it in this nation that a man can. where an individual can. profess his or her religious beliefs.  a class.  a school or an individual. that is. unless by his arguments here on the floor today. and those who join with him. there is a difference in the application of the constitution dependent upon the age of the person involved.
let me read to the senator the appropriate clause of the bill relating to the establishment of religious freedom which jefferson himself wrote. section 2. we. the general assembly of virginia. do enact that manit does  say men or women or 10yearolds or 2yearoldsshould be compelled to frequent or support any religious worship. place. or ministry whatsoever.  shall be enforced. restrained. molested. or burdened in his body or goods. or shall otherwise suffer on account of his religious opinions or beliefs. but that all men shall be free to profess and by argument to maintain their opinions in matters of religion and the same shall in ise diminish. enlarge or affect their civil capacities. this brings me back to the request i made of the senator: where is it in this nation that a man can. where an individual can. profess his or her religious beliefs.  a class.  a school or an individual. that is. unless by his arguments here on the floor today. and those who join with him. there is a difference in the application of the constitution dependent upon the age of the person involved.
. i suggest that the senators answer is  responsive to the question. i am still waiting to learn from the senator that provision in the constitution which gives us the power to protect the veterans against discrimination.
i might point outand i hope senators will e this carefullythat i shall endeavor to make the whole case by including pertinent printed material and reports. i do so because it might be useful to our colleagues on both sides of this question to have in one place as much of the pertinent information as is possible upon the whole subject. to continue on the subject of desegregation plans. i believe it is very clear from what has happened in the school desegregation field. that there is absolutely urgent need for some authority in the attorney general to institute suits in this particular situation. i realize that the socalled part iii was submitted to the senate and was turned down in 1957. however. law is a living. organic. and dynamic thing. therefore. if a need is shown to existand. in this case. to persistthe time comes when a body can accept a solution which it might have found unacceptable before. in the provision for suits by the attorney general. which we shall submit. there are some changes and some improvements of procedure. we also have. as a possible alternative in that regard. a provision permitting intervention. rather than the institution of original suits. however. in whatever manner the subject may be referred to. the fact still remains that there is urgent need. if the mandate of the constitution is to be hoed. for the attorney general to be given authority in this field. which he does  possess today.
 of the united states took the only action he could take. in view of the law and the constitution and the failure or refusal of state officials to act. on that score we are left in doubt. the attorney general of the united states. in a communication sent to me. and i assume sent to most other senators. said. in respect to the gover of the state of alabama: therefore. although i strongly believe that law enforcement matters should be handled by local authorities whenever possible.   being even able to reach you to learn what steps you intend to take. we have alternative but to order the following actionand he then specifies the action. as reported in this mornings newspapers. the attorney general has sent a reply to members of the senate and of the house of representatives from alabama in which he says practically the same thing. that he did his utmost to get action from the state authorities.
i point out to the senatorfor whom i have the greatest regard. as he ksthat this is exactly the problem faced in the school segregation cases. they close the schools. is that the fault of the court. which issued an order to enforce the constitution for the benefit of the children. one might say that in that instance. too. the children are suffering. they are suffering only because their elders refuse to abide by the law of the land.
i should say that we have crossed that bridge. and it is a specious and spurious argument. which will longer be accepted or tolerated. that we must perpetuate an unconstitutional. antimoral position of allowing federal aid to segregation in our schools. because we do  want to deprive children of lunches. let that burden be carried by those who would insist on receiving money from the federal government to be used in segregated schools. let them carry the responsibility. i will  accept that argument. i think that argument has been blown out of the water. it has been made time and again. let the people concerned consult their consciences as to their determination to keep schools segregated. withstanding the constitution and the laws of the united states. they would deprive little children of school lunches. but. in my judgment. the united states can do anything else. in all ho and decency. but deny funds to states which refuse to desegregate their schools.
. the trouble with the amendments is that they are directed  to institutions. but to children. we are  . and we will there is question about thatlend our support to religious institutions in violation the establishment clause. we established that position in the elementary and secondary education act. as in all other education legislation. but we do benefit with services children who do attend such schools. this is the very inherent framework of our education laws. the amendment before us. i am sure unintentionallyi am sure the senator from th carolina does  do it by designwould nevertheless fracture that practice. so we would be writing law directed at something which is  an evil under a set of conditions designed to correct an evil. we would be letting in something that is  directed at an evil. if we are seeking to correct something that would be a violation of the constitution of the united states. which could be enjoined on that ground. at the same time it would be mischievous with respect to the ability to deal with assistance to private and parochial school children. which is an essential concept of our educationallaws. for those reasons. i would be opposed to the amendment. we are seeking to deal with immediate evils. with immediate remedies. that is why the senate turned down the ribicoff amendment. therefore. let us go forward with that objective. without fracturing the whole purpose of the bill. this is  a bill to promote religious education. should we later perceive problems in regard to religious education. we can deal effectively with them later. without attempting to do it in this shortterm education measure.
. our opposition to the amendment simply is that we would allow the whole constitution of the united states to depend upon a few families. that proposition is simply selfdefeating. the country can be ru the government or a school district. or anything elseon any such theory. for these reasons i believe the amendment should be defeated on the merits. we should  move to table the amendment. it is simply wrong on the merits. i object to it. i believe the senate will reject it.
