the senator from michigan has been on his feet a long time. and the senator from florida wishes to speak. we would expect senators from states to justify the conduct of their states. that is laudable. i do the same for new york. the senator does the same for michigan. as do the senators from florida. th carolina. or any other state. first. must we  prescribe the procedures to prove our case on the floor. this is the first day of debate. i shall address myself to the bill tomorrow. as will many other senators. the congress is making a finding. without a finding of widespread abuse of literacy tests or other devices to avoid the provisions of the 15th amendment. we should be defeated. therefore. we must make our case and meet our burden. secondly. having made our case. we must provide machinery which will eliminate the abuse where it is demonstrated that there has been abuse. it seems to me these are two courses along which we who are proponents of the bill must have absolutely open lines and understand our responsibility. i deeply feel that if anybody can show where any road is shut off for a particular county or state. within the principles laid down by this legislation. i shall do my best to correct it. from that point of view. i have studied the bill in the best conscience i can. unless we can defend it on that ground. we have to change it. one would be more ready to admit that than i. but i feel that the scheme of legislation. considering the problem which we have to meet. is a fair. decent. and just one. and enables thosewho should escape from it to escape. however. the problem is so deep. so long standing. and so intolerable to the country that those who would get out of it will have to take a little trouble to do so. i do  believe that to be unreasonable in terms of what the supreme court construes as reasonable in carrying out the purport of the constitution. if we could prove that there has been widespread discrimination and denial of the right to vote. then we could  qualify these measures. because they would then contravene other sections of the constitution which gives the states the power to control who shall vote and who shall  vote within their borders
