. last summer. i heard about the case of tsalo and khaya lipchin. an elderly couple in leningrad that had been seeking exit visas since 1978. the lipchins. who wished to join their only son leonid in massachusetts. had been refused permission to emigrate 17 separate times in 9 years. the reason given was the convenient allegation that national security would be endangered by allowing emigration in this case. it was alleged that mr. lipchin had had access to state secrets during his employment in the computer industry. the lipchins denied this claim of access to state secrets. and finally this year they were vindicated. the committee for state security [kgb] of the u.s.s.r. determined that alleged access to secret information by tsalo lipchin was  a valid basis for refusal of permission to emigrate. still. however. the lipchins lacked an exit visa. at this point. i made an effort to bring their case to the attention of soviet authorities. i wrote letters to general secretary gorbachev.- to rudolph kuznetsov. head of the visas and registration department [ovir] of the u.s.s.r.. and also to the chief of the leningrad office of ovir. i pointed out to these officials the simple desire of the lipchin family to be reunited in the united states. i also mentioned the fact that khaya lipchin had suffered a stroke in 1986 and remained ill. in addition. i asked the u.s. embassy in moscow and our consulate in leningrad to lend a hand with the lipchin case. a little over a month after i got in touch with these officials. the lipchins finally received word that they would be allowed to leave the soviet union. whether or  my intervention made the difference is impossible to say for sure. but i have doubt that pressure from the united states at least nudged the lipchins file closer to the approval category in the leningrad office of ovir. tsalo and khaya lipchin are  in italy awaiting final approval of their papers so that they can come to the united states to join their son. also resolved in the last few months was a refusenik case in which i had a longstanding involvement. it concerned the family of mikhail lieberman. of the city of bendery in the moldavian republic. mr. lieberman. a professional metallurgist who had worked for a mining enterprise in siberia. faced the same allegation as tsalo lipchin: access to classified information. like mr. lipchin. mr. lieberman denied the charge. and yet soviet officials refused to grant him an exit visa. unable to work in their professions while they awaited approval. mikhail lieberman and- his. wife hanna experienced a great deal of hardship during the years they waited for an exit visa. in 1978. i asked the state department to intervene in the lieberman case. in april of this year i wrote directly to general secretary gorbachev about the liebermans. requesting approval of their application. . at long last. there seems to be good news for this jewish family. recently published lists of jews approved for emigration from the u.s.s.r. include mikhail lieberman. and i am optimistic that he and his family will soon be settling in israel. it is obvious from these and other happily resolved cases that the pendulum of soviet policy on jewish emigration has swung in the direction of liberalization. we should  forget. however. that this is a new and recent development. a policy change that can be reversed again just as suddenly as it was this year. i would like to close my contribution to the 1987 call to conscience with the message that we must  let the approval of 6.000 or 10.000 or even 50.000 exit visas allow us to become complacent. for every tsalo lipchin and mikhail lieberman. there are many more soviet jews waiting anxiously for permission to emigrate. for every wellpublicized emigration of a natan shcharansky or an ida nudel. there are thousands of less famous refuseniks aching to leave the soviet union. and suffering for their decision to come forward and apply to leave. indeed. there is understandable fear that. as able soviet jews are granted exit visas. the world will believe that all goes well and efforts. to obtain religious freedom for jews in the soviet union. can be relaxed. as americans we are in many ways guardians of the principle of religious freedom. for this reason. i believe we have a moral obligation to champion the cause of soviet jews. until the unlikely day when genuine religious freedom is established in the soviet union. or when soviet emigration is freed from the capricious grip of the totalitarian soviet bureaucracy. we must  give up this struggle.
