 kennedy was aware that nations are judged in the sweep of history as much by the quality of the arts and the support they receive as by the prosperity of their ecoies and the strength of their defenses. he sought by his own example to encourage americans to k and respect the arts. we can do less than to follow his lead and insure the success of the center.
there are precise figures but the fact essentially is that the united states. whether you have private or foundation or government support. is spending much less. i might say that i talked to macnel lowry of the ford foundation this morning who. as the gentleman ks. has perhaps dispensed more money than anyone in america to support the arts. and he told me that in a number of countries in eastern europe and countries on this side of the iron curtain much more is being spent than we are spending here. for example. he mentioned that in prague there were 28 permanent resident theater companies being supported and which put on performances every night whereas in this country. we are fortunate if we can support even five resident theaters.
. he served in the house of representatives for 45 years. which is a legendary period of time. my colleague will perhaps deal with aher phase of dans life. we both loved him dearly. i wish to speak of dan reed as an athlete. a football player. he was a great man in that field. and one always knew it when one looked at him. even in his eighties. dan reed had other memorials in addition to those engraved in annals of the republic. he also built men. upon his graduation from cornell he coached football at his alma mater and other colleges in the east. he pioneered the use of pictures of his team in action to point out the errors of the players. projecting the pictures on a screen in the form of color slides. he carried this deep interest in color photography with him the rest of his years as a hobby. based upon his feeling for football. and the great reputation he achieved in it. dan reed will always be to me a model of the straight man. both in his life and in his work. as well as in his devotion to the great sport which takes the best men have and uses it to the full. dan reed was a mentor. a friend. and an inspiration. those who knew him mourn him. all will miss him.
