. i thank my colleague. the amendment is offered for the very reason that it will especially help senators from states with major citiesand that is most all of the stateswhere taxpayers are inadequately represented in the chamber and where a certain rural aura persists. withstanding. the emous population shift in the case of the city dwellers. some 70 percent plus of the population. has  received adequate consideration in the farm legislation. we are caught in something of a crack. .and that situation is increasing. we need a provision that would give an assured income for the smaller people so that they would be on more equal terms with the larger farmers in terms of some type of price or target price. that is why i could  vote with my colleague for an amendment that would eliminate or phase out the situation. however. the plan he is  offering seems to me to be hoable and perfectly proper. the most desirable outcome for farm support would be that which would enable the small farmer to be on an equitable basis with the larger farmer and let the major farmer take his chance in the market place. i have the feeling that he would do very well. with the housing situation. the mortgage money. and so forth. but  with a price subsidy. in order to get to that stage. we at least have to be intelligent and reasonable on the price subsidy question. such as those of us like myself and senator buckley. who represent states with big cities. the plan the amendment offers is designed for that purpose. and i really understand the feeling that other senators from states with major cities in them that they ought to be very thoughtful about this matter. it could easily be run down as aher one of the amendments that will receive 15 votes. there is going to be a day of reckoning. i remember when i was in the house of representatives when only 25 house members maintained that position. there is bound to be some occasion when there will be a revolt by the city dwellers. he wants the farmer to produce. however. the pendulum tends to swing much too far. and as i understand the thrust of the buckley amendment. it seeks to bring that pendulum back to mal. however. it has to be within reason. i join with my colleague in his plea to the senate to act favorably on the amendment.
