. today i along with senators lieberman. warnsr. jeffords. durenberger. and others are reintroducing legislation to designate april 15. 1992. as national recycling day." raising public awareness about the real benefits to society from recycling is essential if we are to recover valuable materials from our waste. and minimize the garbage which is filling up our landfills. recycling. which began as far back as the settling of this country. has evolved over the years. many of my colleagues will remember the materials conservation efforts during world war ii. when aluminum foil was carefully saved. used automobile tires collected. and many other consumer items were recycled and put toward the war effort. today. in many communities recycling has become a daily part of life in america. most of us have recycled materials at some point in our lives. typically paper. aluminum. or glass. however. while many of us may be familiar with recycling there is still an emous need for public education to inform consumers that garbage does  disappear when the sanitation worker loads it into the truck. with the help of environmental advertisements and media events aimed at increasing awareness about the waste problem. our society has come to realize that there are very real costs. both financial and environmental. associated with the continued proliferation of municipal garbage. still more needs to be done. in the united states today we continue to face a crisis in solid waste management. this country generates about 160 million tons of solid waste per year. almost double the amount produced in 1965. if present trends continue. the united states will generate close to 200 million tons per year by the turn of the century. towns and cities across the united states are realizing that the city dump will be forced to close its gates in a few short years. in the last two decades alone the number of landfills accepting solid waste has been reduced dramatically from about 30.000 to 6.000. it is becoming virtually impossible to establish any new landfill sites because of the " in my backyard syndrome." and the rising value of land and real estate. realizing then. this urgent crisis. this threat to human health and the environment from burgeoning mountains of trash. we have looked to techogy to provide us with an easy solution. such techogical fixes. however. have  eliminated the undeniable need for significant changes in the way we conduct our daily lives.  only must we find more environmentally sound ways of handling municipal trash. but we must also greatly reduce the amount of garbage we generate -in the first place. this will require a concerted effort on the part of consumers. manufacturers. and government. that is why we are reintroducing legislation to designate april 15. 1992 as national recycling day. reducing the amount of household garbage we .generate poses the most difficult of public policy problems: changing human habits. the purpose of this legislation is to encourage a public attitude that can allow these needed changes to take place. people must be made aware that their actions do have a critical impact on reducing the amount of garbage entering the waste stream. as recently as january of this year. i cochaired a special hearing at which children from across the nation gathered to remind government leaders that unless we. as citizens of the earth. take steps to change our environmentally unsound habits. we will deplete the bountiful planet which provides us with somuch. at the federal level. there are several legislative proposals to increase the amount of waste we recycle. my home state. rhode island. was the first state to pass a mandatory recycling law. cities and towns separate recyclables such as glass. paper. aluminum. and plastics for curbside collection. today almost every town and city has some form of recycling program. but still less than 15 percent of the waste we can recycle is actually being recycled. progress in recycling depends upon the cooperation of all of us who generate waste. and the commitment of industry and the government to expand the market for recycled products. one good example is the currently increased market for rubber from recycled tires used in asphalt for new roads. the benefits of recycling also includes employment. according to one study. recycling 10.000 tons of material spawned 36 jobs. compared to 6 jobs created for landfilling the same amount. some communities have formed working partnerships with workshops for the disabled. developed and administered job training partnerships. or otherwise found work for unemployed labor in recycling programs. in my own state. the rhode island department of environmental management estimates that 300 jobs have been created by recycling. what needs to be stressed here today. as we reintroduce legislation aimed at continuing to promote public participation in the battle against solid waste. is that the battle can be won. drastic solutions are required.  are big sacrifices sought. with relatively small changes in habits. educational initiatives. and reasonable laws we. can overcome the crisis we  face. i urge my colleagues to help us move closer toward this goal. by joining us in redesignating april 15. 1992. as national recycling day.e
