ial impoundments by either permitting or disapproving them on a casebycase basis. we will be well on our way toward correcting the imbalance of power between the two branches in this vital area. in this regard. i believe the senate bill is preferable to the present house bill. in that it requires affirmative action by congress to approve an impoundment. while it is a welcome step. we must recognize that this bill is only a modest effort. much more will need to be done before congress fully reclaims the constitutional prerogatives vested in it. specifically. in my judgment congress must reconstitute its own watchdog agency. the general accounting office. with new powers to exercise oversight under the direction of congress over administration of the federal budget by the executive branch. this agency must be equipped to evaluate and report to congress with respect to the consistency with congressional intent of each proposed budgetary action by the executive. impoundment of funds should be allowed under law unless it has first received the specific approval of both ilouses of congress or. in appropriate cases. the comptroller general acting as a delegate of congress. conversely. and of extreme importance in light of recent revelations about massive secret military operations in cambodia in 1970. the comptroller general should be empowered to effect a cutoff of funds being spent by the executive unlawfully or clearly contrary to the legislative intent of congress. these strong measures are offered in h.r. 2403. which i introduced earlier this year with 47 colleagues. i hope that the bill before us today will launch a renewed sense of responsibility and resolve on the part of congress. the real question of restoring coequal powers to congress is  the constitutional question. but more fundamentally. a question of will. if congress has the will and the independence it can restore checks and balances to our government. further. a thoughtful and powerful congress would be in a position to encourage. indeed to insist on. cooperation by the executive branch. what is needed in our system of government is a capacity of both the executive branch and congress to work together in the national interest. with a clear understanding by both of their accountability to the american people. failure by the congress to act in this area can lead only to a onesided confrontation which the congress would losean outcome whch would be inimical to the best interest of the american people.
that is a bit of ingenuity that i am afraid i have  mastered. let us take that slowly. you can add innumerable amendments to the bill that cost millions or billions. and if a point of order is  raised to each amendment at the time and is adopted. the whole measure itself. which  involves these billions above any budget limitations that were there. is perfectly all right. could the chair lead me through that alice in wonderland safely.
. i rise today in strong support of s. 1374. a bill which i introduced last year along with senators pell. kennedy. and kerry. to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. this legislation was revised in order. to address concerns raised by members of the committee on energy and natural resources. and was consequently approved unanimously by that committee on september 18. i believe the bill. in its present form. is a model of fiscal restraint and realistic goals. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations the cultural. historical. recreational and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers of the blackstone river valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley an appreciation of the larger national patterns of .industrial development may be gained. the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes which are at present underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of waterpower for industry occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year samuel slater constructed the first waterpowered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options" to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the development of an interstate heritage protection plan complimented by an expanded level of federal recognition. support and technical assistance. the legislation takes account of the recommendations of the national park service. and builds upon the research and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island blackstone citizens advisory committee and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. this legislation will establish a commission to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission will operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the establishment. design and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $500.000 per year. the commission will be composed of 19 members. including the director of the national park service. the director of the department of environmental management of rhode island and massachusetts. the directors of the departments of ecoic development for the two states. four representatives of local government from each state appointed by their govers to represent local interests. and two individuals from each state to represent the states interest. the department of the interior will provide technical support to the commission. two employees from the department of the interior will be assigned to the commission to enable it to carry out its responsibilities. a sum  to exceed $75.000 is authorized to be appropriated to the secretary to carry out the secretarys duties regarding these two employees. national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance today the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park will become a reality. i urge my colleagues to join with sentor pell and myself in supporting this important and worthwhile bill.
that is a bit of ingenuity that i am afraid i have  mastered. let us take that slowly. you can add innumerable amendments to the bill that cost millions or billions. and if a point of order is  raised to each amendment at the time and is adopted. the whole measure itself. which  involves these billions above any budget limitations that were there. is perfectly all right. could the chair lead me through that alice in wonderland safely.
. i rise today in strong support of s. 1374. a bill which i introduced last year along with senators pell. kennedy. and kerry. to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. this legislation was revised in order. to address concerns raised by members of the committee on energy and natural resources. and was consequently approved unanimously by that committee on september 18. i believe the bill. in its present form. is a model of fiscal restraint and realistic goals. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations the cultural. historical. recreational and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers of the blackstone river valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley an appreciation of the larger national patterns of .industrial development may be gained. the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes which are at present underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of waterpower for industry occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year samuel slater constructed the first waterpowered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options" to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the development of an interstate heritage protection plan complimented by an expanded level of federal recognition. support and technical assistance. the legislation takes account of the recommendations of the national park service. and builds upon the research and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island blackstone citizens advisory committee and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. this legislation will establish a commission to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission will operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the establishment. design and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $500.000 per year. the commission will be composed of 19 members. including the director of the national park service. the director of the department of environmental management of rhode island and massachusetts. the directors of the departments of ecoic development for the two states. four representatives of local government from each state appointed by their govers to represent local interests. and two individuals from each state to represent the states interest. the department of the interior will provide technical support to the commission. two employees from the department of the interior will be assigned to the commission to enable it to carry out its responsibilities. a sum  to exceed $75.000 is authorized to be appropriated to the secretary to carry out the secretarys duties regarding these two employees. national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance today the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park will become a reality. i urge my colleagues to join with sentor pell and myself in supporting this important and worthwhile bill.
s statement makes it clear that any high stakes gaming. including bingo. in rhode island will remain subject to the civil. criminal. and regulatory laws of our state. congressional record. september 15. 1988. p. s. 12650) the fish and wildlife service. the national park service and the forest service should promulgate rules which ensure that the public has the ipportunity to participate fully and comment on the issuing of permits. rightsofway or easements for any telecommunications facility placed in any unit of the national refuge system. the national park system or the national forest system. conference agreement does  include language proposed by the senate restricting employee relocation costs. however. an area of concern with respect to agencies funded by the interior bill is the large number of employees affected by.. and millions of dollars spent each year on. relocations and transfers of.station. reductions in this area can result in significant savings that can be applied to agency operating programs. all land management -agencies are encouraged to reduce both the number of employees relocated and the total cost of relocating employees by 10 peicent in fiscal year 1997 and to plan to reduce the number by an additional 10 percent in fiscal year 1998. using the average of fiscal years 1994 and 1995 as a base. alf agencies should include in the fiscal year 1998 budget request to congress a report on the progress and plavis for achieng reductions iirrdlocatien ts end emplo ee r loca tlon s. - " " :. / "
. the legislation i am introducing with senator williams today establishes a new system of protecting areas of outstanding ecological. scenic. cultural. historical. and recreational significance. our bill is designed to provide protection to areas like new jerseys pine barrens that are too big. too complex. too valuable. and too interwoven with the fabric of existing communities to be protected by the federal government alone or by any existing system of parks. recreation areas. or preserves. the bill provides for a system of protection through a partnership of federal. state. and local governments. it permits continuation of private ownership when private use of the land is compatible with the need for protection of the area and seeks. to the greatest extent possible. to protect against loss in value of privately held land without just compensation. my sponsorship of this bill grew out of a concern about the need to protect the new jersey pine barrens. the largest undeveloped stretch of land on the eastern seaboard. from development that would destroy its intrinsic and unique values. for a number of years i have been searching for a means of providing greater protection to this area. which the bureau of outdoor recreation has said is "among the most outstanding natural areas in the country." in the process. i learned that there were a number of others who shared my concern and had identified a number of other areas in this country which meet the criteria for designation as a national park natural area. a national recreation area. or some other form of protection encompassed in existing law. for various reasons. these areas do  fit in well with existing programs that call for a unilateral federal effort and rely principally on fee acquisition of the lands involved. we believe our bill will provide a mechanism for handling an increasing number of bills that have been introduced to provide federal protection for various areas. particularly those that would involve an impractical degree of federal land acquisition. our bill will permit protection of these areas without extensive acquisition of land. without extensive disruption of private land ownership. and without unwarranted preemption of state and local governments. under our bill. each unit of government is assigned the role it is best suited to play. in all cases. actual land acquisition is held to a minimum and other means of land management are given priority. for example. once a national reserve has been established under the provisions of the bill. the federal government will be authorized to provide funds for acquisition of a limited number of strategic sites within the reserve. but payments also will be authorized to compensate private landowners for the right of public access. for the costs of other compensatory payments to landowners. for payments in lieu of taxes to local units of government. and for costs of development of special public recreation and historical interpretation projects. in addition. the federal government will be authorized to purchase land which then would be resold or leased to the original owner or others with restrictions on its future use. thus protecting the interest of the landowner and meeting the needs of the reserve. our bill also seeks to assure the greatest possible degree of state. local. and public involvement in the development of a national reserve. an area can be inated for designation as a national reserve by a member of congress. the secretary of the interior. the gover of a state. two or more units of local government. or a state legislative body. inations will be presented to the secretary of the interior who. with the help of a council established by the bill. will screen the applications to determine if a feasibility study is warranted. among the criteria to be considered by the secretary during this process is whether there is adequate local interest in protecting the area. on the basis of the feasibility studies. recommendations will be made to congress that an area be designated as a "national reserve planning area." an exception to this process is made for new jerseys pine barrens. which is designated in the bill itself as a "national reserve planning area." since it is already kn that this area meets the criteria for such designation. once an area is designated as a national reserve planning area. a management plan will be drawn up for the area and submitted to the secretary of the interior who. if he finds it meets the criteria in the bill. will submit the plan to congress. only after specific approval of congress of the management plan would an area be officially designated as a national reserve. since the pine barrens is designated as a planning area. preparation of a management plan for that area can begin upon enactment of this bill. the pine barrens is located in the southern half of new jersey. between the famous seaside resorts and the major new yorkphiladelphia corridor. the theasts intensive urbanization has bypassed this 1.500squaremile remnant of a pineoak forest. it is a subdued. restful area with low shrubs and dwarfed pines and oaks growing in a highly porous soil that absorbs 90 percent of the rain that falls in the area. the porous soil has created an aquifer that stores some 17.7 trillion gallons of water. an amount equal to 10 years of rainfall or the equivalent of a lake 2.000 square miles in area and 37 feet deep. because of the porous soil and the shallow depth of the aquifer. this giant underground reservoir could easily be polluted if intensive development took place in the area. in terms of recreation. the pine barrens offers boating. hunting. fishing. hiking. nature study. and camping to some 50 million people who live within a radius of about 50 miles of the area. the unusual combination of soils. water table. and climate make the pine barrens first in the nation in blueberry production and third in cranberry production. fortunately. this type of activity is compatible with protection of the other resources of the pine barrens. the flora and fauna of the pine barrens include many relics of the ice age. most of which are rare and unusual and some of which are found here else in the nation. all of these values must be protected. at the same time the interests of local government and private landowners must be protected. we believe our bill will accomplish these objectives to the greatest possible degree. we believe it provides a means of protecting  only the pine barrens but similar areas throughout the country. we expect the bill to receive wide national support. at the end of this year. the administration will release its urban park study. which we expect will also recommend the approach contained in our bill. we urge careful consideration of this bill.  only for the protection of new jerseys pine barrens. but also for its application to other areas of the country in need of similar protection. areas of national significance that are better kn to other members of the senate. by mr. hansen:
i believe the point the bonds issue senator is making about the new way of handling these problems is very wise. net income froi i interrupt the senator only to empha- net income size it and to point out that that is what net expens is happening. we are trying it in new york. and people in other areas are thinking in these terms. king that other members feel so strongly about less: payments i federal financing in situations where bonds rede they feel the areas do  have the resources or the credit standing. i believe it helps them. because if we take the total eqi strain off the totality of what is required cf the united states. we make it easier i deduction. ling of projects which truly kind of help. i shall support the bill  enate. kins. i thank the senator nent. we need a second panama efore. all we have to do is to ie panama canal company rrent revenues of the canal venue bonds to construct the ress has created the st. law-. .y development corporation.  authorize this governy to issue revenue bonds to plants and possibly even to fleet of barges and other * the seaway upon its comreally want to go hog wild type of authorization. we ission the inland waterways to issue revenue bonds to cks. bridges. and barge lines. save the congress the bother ting funds for navigation on waterways. many government corporanany opportunities to build es without congressional apmerely by the exercise of nt of revenue bonding auce where this would lead us. is give this measure a little consideration. this we rethis evening when we deion to recommit. ssage of this act would mean licies which have been in efhalf century in other river se country. state of texas. for instance. sngress to urge authorization needed comprehensive water ogram for that great state. s adopted will be largely rein nature. and where reveing power and municipal res are involved. the citizens ot only will be expected to capital investment. but they required to pay interest as requirement which has been f congressional policy since the reclamation act of 1902. people in the west accept this fact. and they approve federal assistance of this type. however. when we get into the tennessee river valley. we are confronted with a unique set of ground rules. here. the federal government  only builds flood control. navigation. and water conserving projects but the bill today is inconsistent with a 1948 act which required amortization of the investment. without interest. in 40 years. the people in the missouri river basin. the columbia river basin. the colorado river basin. and the other great river basins of the country certainly have objection to federal assistance for water resource development on the tennessee river. these other areas generally support water resource developments throughout the country. but they have a legitimate question: why do the other river basins pay interest on project costs allocated to power. while the good people in the tennessee river area get both hydro power and steam power facilities built at federal expense without. interest. i hereby request unanimous consent to introduce at this point 2 schedules prepared for me by the comptroller general. which shows the total federal investment in tva and the financial operations of the tva for the period 1952 through fiscal 1956.
. this is obviously an attractive amendment at first impression but i agree with the senator from georgia as to its effect and therefore believe it unwise. i think it would lead us into a very serious trap. especially in times of grave concern for the national security like this. when we place a fixed fiscal roof over ourselves in certain categories with percentages when we face the problems which we face in the world. we are making a tense resolution underwriting the concern of those who say that we put a price tag on everything--even securitythat we are  worried about national security. but only about costs. i feel i must vote "nay" on this particular amendment.
. we have a duty to save the taxpayers money. and we have a duty to keep viable the american ecoy. i wish to identify myself with the remarks of the senator from ohio [mr. lausche in stating that we have a higher duty. which is to keep the american taxpayer alive and to keep alive the government of the united states and the free world structure in which it lives. that is what we are talking about. this whole bill. as the administration recommended it. represents only 1 percent of the gross national product of the united states. how are we going to defeat the russians. we would  have egh soldiers in this country. if we mobilized everyone. including those from 13 to 18 years of age. to defeat the 900 million behind the iron curtain. we can only do it if we mobilize the whole world force on our side. if. for these ridiculously small sums of money. we will  give men the opportunity to die for freedom. they will . and they will take us at our word. they may even join the other side. if that is what we want by saving only $235 million. then we shall deserve what we get.
 for his signature. the 1980 date. although it may seem like a long way off. is rapidly approaching in terms of the lead times necessary for the construction of these facilities. it is imperative that federal funding begin to flow during the 1977 fiscal year. and i believe because of the cooperation of the members of the commerce committee that result will be achieved. i urge my colleagues to support this bill.
