. i think punitive legislation on the federal level can very well have the same effect on students as the "bust" to which i referred. this is  to say the measure which the senator from arkansas proposed will or will  have this effect. but it will certainly give us the opportunity to appraise the situation. i do  believe a case has been made for federal legislation. in this situation  confronting our campuses we in the congress can take action. we can and must address ourselves to the major problems of our society with a sense of urgency and immediacy. we must bring the war in vietnam to a conclusion and begin the process of reallocating some national resources away primarily from military uses to correcting hunger. poverty and other social inequities. and to providing education and health. as the hearings of the permanent investigations subcommittee continues. we should keep before us the possibility that federal legislation is desirable. this has been the conclusion of our colleagues on the house committee on education and labor. on the other hand. we should also bear in mind that these hearings could result. for example. in legislation which would require colleges and universities to file information concerning their policies and procedures.  only for the maintenance of order. but also for the preservation of academic freedom. the stimulation of ination. the improvement of communication. and the participation of students and faculty in the universitys governance and mission. other reforms which we should consider include the enactment of new programs for strengthening the capacity of colleges and universities to enlarge contact with and involvement in the communities around them. this includes assuring all disadvantaged youth a higher education opportunity. establishing meaningful youth advisory procedures throughout our society and institutions of government. and. of course. lowering the voting age to 18. the problem of student unrest and disorder requires firmness and. at times. punitive action. our colleges and universities need order if they are to carry out their mission and if academic freedoms are to be preserved. but firmness and order. by themselves. are  egh. they will bring neither peace  progress to our campuses or to our society. they must be combined with new opportunities for participation of students and of change and ination. there must be new institutions and arrangements which will build into our colleges and universities the opportunity for a continual process of reform and responsiveness to all the members of the academic community. including students. that is the response which is demanded of us. until we are prepared to act in such a balanced and judicious manner. we had best  act at all.
