the timetable of inaction on civil rights at this session need only be compared to the legislative history of 1957. when the first major civil rights bill in more than 80 years was passed by the congress. to point up the gravity of our predicament this year. in 1957 the senate judiciary committee held 13 days of hearings on civil rights legislation. including the major administration bill. this year. the subcommittee on constitutional rights has held 21 days of similar hearings. completed on may 28. on june 18. 1957. the house passed the civil rights act of 1957 and sent it to the senate. so far this year. the civil rights bill has  yet been reported out by the house judiciary committee though it has been reported to it by representative cellers subcommittee. on june 20. 1957a date which has passedthe senate voted  to refer the housepassed bill to the senate judiciary committee and placed the house civil rights bill directly on the senate calendar. so far this year. there is such bill on the senate calendar and the judiciary subcommittee has been able to hold only one executive session to work on the legislation. through inability to get a quorum. and only yesterdayjune 30because of an objection raised to holding a subcommittee meeting while the senate was in morning session. on june 19. 1957. the civil rights debate started in the u.s. senate. it lasted for 24 days of actual debate. and ended on august 7. 1957. when a bill greatly weakened. i believe because of the threat of filibuster. was finally passed and returned to the house of representatives. on august 27. 1957. the house took up the senate amendments. and final senate concurrence took place on august 29. on august 30. 1957. congress adjourned. if we started to debate today on a civil rights act of 1959. and devoted a simliar period of consideration to it. the earliest foreseeable adjournment date would be midseptember. and that would allow little time for debate on other vital national issues. yet since the end of the korean war in 1953. the latest adjournment date for a regular session was august30. 1957. if history repeats itself at this session. and the senate is to wait for a housepassed civil rights bill and then to take it up without reference to its own judiciary committee. we could be in session many more months. it was 212 months from the date that the house judiciary committee reported its civil rights bill to the floor in 1957 and the date on which it was approved by the house of representatives. then it was over 21/2 months more before final approval in the congress. even if senate debate in 1959. once it starts. were to be substantially shorter than was the debate in 1957and we have reason to believe that it would bethe pressures of adjournment time and other vital legislation could still coerce us into holding. a stopwatch on the amount of time that could be expended on one major issue at the sacrifice of others of vital national concern. a filibuster. or a threat of filibuster. is  the real danger at this sessionit is the calendar. and the opponents of civil rights k it and can make the most of that fact to defeat any civil rights bill. by following the process  being followed we could be here until ember. let us take a look at the measures which are pending before the senate for consideration. they are in the main reasonable. even conservative. i have introduced a bill. s. 456. cosponsored by senators keating. case of new jersey. cooper. scott. and allott. to amend the existing part iii in the civil rights act of 1957. to give the attorney general the authority to bring civil suits for the protection of other constitutionally guaranteed rights. including the right to obtain desegregation of the public schools in accordance with the supreme courts historic 1954 decision. this bill is both reasonable and moderatecivil.  criminal. proceedings are involved seeking compliance with the law. it is indispensable if we are to sustain the hand of southern moderates who. though they may  agree with the specific desegregation decision. recognize it as the supreme law of the land and seek an orderly transition to a society where equal opportunity is the rule as well as the law for all. under present law. an individual may bring suit for civil injunction to protect his civil rights. but in many cases such a person may  be financially able to begin proceedings and the antibarratry statutes  on the books in six southern states make it increasingly difficult for those deprived of their rights to seek the help of others to get judicial redress. the attorney general must have power to act upon a showing that the person about to be deprived is himself financially unable to prosecute a civil proceeding on his own behalfhe can. of course. select his case and is  obliged to take each one. i am well aware that it is  the position of the justice department that we should delay in considering this provision which it strongly supported 2 years ago. i can agree with this position. by postponing action in this area we are  increasing the likelihood of new gains a few years hence. instead. we are inviting the hardcore opponents of civil rights to toughen their resistance through additional laws. and other techniques which will discourage the members of any miity group from safeguarding or securing their rights. this legislation is similar to a provision in senator douglas omnibus civil rights bill which i have cosponsored. his bill represents a broadscale attempt to provide federal leadership in school desegregation by making available at the local level technical and financial assistance. and ultimately provides a means for implementing school desegregation plans. in addition to the bills i have mentioned. it is equally important that congress act on the administration proposals. of which i am a cosponsor to assist school districts wishing to desegregate. to extend the life of the civil rights commission for aher 2 yearsalso covered in a separate bill. s. 435. which i previously cosponsored with four other senatorsto assure education to military dependents in areas where local public schools are closed to avoid desegregating. to put a statutory base under the presidents committee on government contracts. and to give the attorney general subpena power in voting rights cases. the most significant thing about the civil rights proposals  pending in the senate is. of course. that a bill has been introduced by the majority leader. senator johnson of texas and thus he has placed his personal prestige behind legislation in the civil rights field. three sections of senator johnsons bill parallel proposals made by the administration. by me. and by several colleagues which would outlaw hate bombings. extend the life of the civil rights commission. and give the attorney general subpena power in investigations concerning the right to vote. that is the most controversial part of the bill introduced by the senator from texas . however. that section of his bill proposing the creation of a community relations servicesimilar to the mediation and conciliation services to deal with labormanagement disputesas it is  set forth. has aroused the greatest interest. this proposal poses a serious problem if it is wrongly conceived. one must be most careful that the subject of conciliation is  "whether to obey the law" or "how far to obey it" but rather how to obey it and how to avoid crisis in community relationships. including the recognition of the supreme court decree on public school desegregation contained in the administration bill. and  contained in the johnson bill. with appropriate amendments this proposal can represent a meaningful contribution alone. but in conjunction with other meaningful provisions. but all of these proposalsthose of the majority leader. of the administration. of the many members of the senate on both sides of the aislewill come to naught. if we do  succeed in getting legislation to the floor without further delay. it will be small consolation that we have had even a small change in the rule on limiting debate and that all these proposals have been introduced. if it is the running of the clock that defeats civil rights legislation in 1959. i strongly urge the members of the subcommittee on constitutional rights. the members of the full judiciary committee. and especially the majority leadership of the senate to give us a prompt opportunity to take up the civil rights bills at this session while we still have a chance to complete action on them. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the text of a resolution adopted by the special commission on civil rights of the new york county lawyers association at its meeting held cv782
. that "there isnt any federal statute that was involved" in birmingham. ala. i pointed out that situations such as those which are occurring at birmingham can be reached through the courts. if the attorney general is given authority to bring civil actions to enforce the rights of u.s. citizens under the 14th amendment. as well as through existing criminal law statutes. the congress must play its role in such a crisis as we face. and we can be deterred or frustrated in this by the threat of filibuster. indeed. the failure to have this showdown in the congress before  must be put down as at least one causei believe an important onefor the events we have seen unfolding. in my testimony last week in a committee of the other body. i specified six priority items in the legislative program which can meet the issue and come measurably near to satisfying the justifiable complaints of the negro communityproposals which draw largely on the u.s. civil rights commissions 27 recommendations for legislation: these six items are as follows: first. the required filing within 180 days of school desegregation plans for at least first step compliance commencing the next school year. second. a sixth grade standard qualification for voting as a substitute for discriminatoly literacy tests. third. a federal fair employment practices commission covering interstate commerce. government contractors. and the district of columbia. fourth. permanent extension of the u.s. civil rights commission. fifth. prohibition of discrimination in hotels and motels in interstate commerce and the elimination of the separatebutequal clauses in the hillburton hospital construction act and the morrill land grant college acts. which are completely anachronistic since the decision of the supreme court in 1954. sixth. a broadened and effective authority to the attorney general to bring suit in representative cases for denial of all rights under the 14th amendment. which would include the 1st amendment right of assembly and petitionwhich has been the very right in issue in birmingham. we are already getting a reaction from abroad of the events in birmingham. and while there is considerable understanding of the problem as being very difficult. the propaganda value of what has happened can only help those who are opposed to our free institutions. and is unfortunately a forceful incentive to them in propagating communism in africa. asia and latin america. i believe the role of congress is as vital as the role of the executive department and that we have failed signally in the congress to meet our responsibilities to the nation in this field. the national interest will  let us wait. we had better get at it . i ask unanimous consent that there may be included in the record as a part of my remarks editorials from the new york times and the new york herald tribune. of new york. substantially to the effect of the statement i have made. as well as articles from the new york herald tribune and the new york times of yesterday showing what the foreign press is stating about this very trying issue.
