. it is my sincere hope that the government of premier levesque will reconsider the current legislative procedure for the acquisition of asbestos corp.. ltd.. and instead resume negotiations with general dynamics in an effort to find a mutually acceptable solution to this matter. furthermore. i would like to urge our state department to assist in this effort on behalf of general dynamics and the u.s. business community. in the best interests of the government of quebec and u.s. business. i hope that such an approach can be realized.0
. i would like to ask a question. if may. of the manager of the bill. . as he ks. we put a lot of effort into these corps of engineer studies. our great concern is that studies are rather casually ordered. the consequences of the studies frequently are very substantial expenditures which the towns and ctties or states involved have  intention of meeting. in other words. every selfrespecting mayor or goverand i have participated in this myselfwhen there is a natural disaster of a flooding nature. appeals to the corps of engineers to make a study. what that does is hold off the objectors. it indicates some action is taking place. the study frequently comes in recommending the expenditure of millions of dollars which the town or city or state has intention of ever funding. but at least it has the matter off the agenda. the citizens are pleased that the study is takingrlace. . therefore. in the environment and public works committee. we have providedand this has been acceptedthat the corps of engineers. when they embark on studies. require the local community to pay x percent25 percent. 30 percent. whatever it issome serious upfront money so the commnitlty will  just blithely ask for a study without ever intending to make a substantial commitment of their own sums. my question is this: is the city involved or the state or the locality. as opposed to the federal government. going to pay any portion of this study.
. i would like to ask a question. if may. of the manager of the bill. . as he ks. we put a lot of effort into these corps of engineer studies. our great concern is that studies are rather casually ordered. the consequences of the studies frequently are very substantial expenditures which the towns and ctties or states involved have  intention of meeting. in other words. every selfrespecting mayor or goverand i have participated in this myselfwhen there is a natural disaster of a flooding nature. appeals to the corps of engineers to make a study. what that does is hold off the objectors. it indicates some action is taking place. the study frequently comes in recommending the expenditure of millions of dollars which the town or city or state has intention of ever funding. but at least it has the matter off the agenda. the citizens are pleased that the study is takingrlace. . therefore. in the environment and public works committee. we have providedand this has been acceptedthat the corps of engineers. when they embark on studies. require the local community to pay x percent25 percent. 30 percent. whatever it issome serious upfront money so the commnitlty will  just blithely ask for a study without ever intending to make a substantial commitment of their own sums. my question is this: is the city involved or the state or the locality. as opposed to the federal government. going to pay any portion of this study.
i think that there is already an emerging consensus on this subject. this time last year the soviet premier wrote an article in pravda on this subject and warned that. "this time there would be hs ark" if the nations of the world failed to take the threat of climate change seriously. as a matter of fact. there was substantial discussion of these problems during the reagangorbachev summit 2 weeks ago here in washington.
if i might. madam president. i just want to do two things. first. to thank and congratulate our colleague from minnesota for the wonderful assistance he has given tl.  only in connection with this matter but on other matters as well. he is the premier leader in our environment committee on ground water and inland water problems and has been such a tremendous help. i also want to pay tribute to the leader of the subcommittee. senator lautenberg. who has done such an excellent job in connection with this and who has eloquently spoken about what our oceans mean to us. the limit of the abuse the oceans can absorb. and how this is a major step forward in trying to clean up our oceans and particularly the atlantic ocean. all of us across the world have a duty to do what we can to keep these oceans clean and to end the abuse. so this is perhaps more than a small step. i hope it is a major step forward in keeping our oceans at least cleaner than they are . * i thank my colleague who has done such a fine job. we are ready to go to final passage.
i shall  deal with the question whether new york city is well or badly policed or troubled with delinquency. i should like to tell the senator from minnesota that it was with regret that i voted against the bill. although i should have liked to vote for it. my reason being that the bill was  tied to the very problems which gover rockefeller and the mayor of the city of new york are trying to solve with respect to juvenile delinquency. one of the restrictions in the humphrey bill was that t:ie boys to be selected for the youth conservation corps must be of good character. i strongly commend the senator from minnesota. if the matter is  acted on at this session. and is to go over until the next session. to give most careful consideration to the report of the new york state commission on youth delinquency. of which i had the ho to be a member when i was attorney general of the state of new york. it outlines exactly the kind of camp which will help boys in this situation and refers to the two camps in new york state. one at th pharsalia in chenango county. and the other at monterey in schuyler county. i believe that the report of the new york state commission could be of help to the senator in respect to his bill because of the fact that it would have a direct and close relationship to the struggle against juvenile delinquency.
