. i am pleased that today we are considering the indoor air quality act of 1991. s. 455. this bill will provide substantial research and development initiatives to uncover harmful air pollutants in our indoor environment. and it will focus the efforts of the federal government on this particular problem. by focusing our efforts and providing clean air. we are making great strides in what we all say we are for around this place. and that is preventive medicine. there is  a senator who will get up on the floor and say that he or she is  for keeping our public healthy. our nation  spends. overall. on health care about $660 billion a year. that is  solely the government. that is all expendituresgovernment. industry. and individuals. through insurance or through direct expenditures. we spend $660 billion a year. that is about $2 billion a day. many of the illnesses we experience are preventable. in terms of public health. this bill will provide us a much needed ounce of prevention and help us to avoid the costly pound of cure. epa. for example. estimates that between $4.4 and $5.4 billion a year is lost in productivity due to indoor air illnesses. over the last decade. we have made considerable progress in abating some of the more harmful pollutants in our outdoor air environment. it is really remarkable what has taken place. let me give you some statistics: the amount of emissions from an automobile produced in 1990. as compared to an automobile produced in 1970. a 20year period. the amount of emissions of hydrocarbons. which cause smog. were decreased by 90 percent. in that same period. from 1970 to 1990. the carbon moide emissions were cut by 90 percent. these are all killers. there is a 90percent reduction. you might say. is the air 90 percent cleaner than it was 20 years ago. the answer. unfortunately. is "" why. because even though we made these dramatic reductions in emissions from an automobile produced in 1990 from one produced in 1970. etheless. each automobile that is left on the road travels more miles than 2 years ago. and there are more automobiles on the road. so between those twobetween more miles per automobile driven and the fact that we have more automobilesregrettably. the emissions in the air have  been cut by 90 percent. but just think what it would be like if we had  made those reductions. let us look at the lead in the air. because of going to unleaded gasoline. we have reduced. in that 20year period. the amount of lead in the air by 97 percent. people like to mock the effort sometimes that we make in the environment here. but our public is clearly healthier because of what we have done. once unsightly rivers are  returning to a condition where they are fishable and swimmable. because of these added efforts. yet. for all the progress that we have made on the outdoor air environment. we have  turned our attention to where americans spend 90 percent of their time. much is kn about the effects of indoor contaminants. such as radon. asbestos. and tobacco smoke. but there are several other contaminants we k little about. such as formaldehyde. why do we worry about formaldehyde. it comes from much of our covered furniture. others are: volatile organic chemicals. combustion byproducts. and respirable particles. there is a great likelihood that these pose a serious threat to public health. the threat from these chemicals that are in the airsome we k about. as i mentioned. radon. asbestos. tobacco smoke. and some we do  k much about. the threat of these to our livelihood is  only that we spend 00 percent of our time indoors. but we have seen the growth of these airtight buildings. because of the soaring energy costs over the past 20 years. we have made a great thrust on conservation. so we build these buildings airtight. we all k. in my building. you can open the window. i think that is true of most of the buildings around here. these are wellinsulated. energyefficient buildings. but what they did is seal in potentially hazardous substances. while reducing the amount of fresh air. emoer 6. 1991 little attention has been given to the quality and the potential health effects of the air inside our homes and offices. but there is mounting evidence that the air we breathe indoors may be at least as polluted with cigarette smoke. radioactive radon gas. or formaldehyde as the smog outside. we spend all our time worrying about outdoor air. and that is right. but we ought to worry about indoor air. too. the epa  concludes that the risk to human health from indoor air contaminants may be at least as great as those from the outdoor environment. in a recent report. this is what epa had to say: sufficient evidence exists to conclude that indoor air pollution represents a major portion of the publics exposure to air pollution and may pose serious acute and chronic health risks. this evidence warrants an expanded effort to characterize and mitigate this exposure. in other words. we ought to do something about it. thl3 statement represents a major step forward in agencys thinking about what ought to be done about indoor pollution. one of the most ubiquitous forms of indoor air pollution. i think we all recognize. is tobacco smoke. we have 54 million smokers in the united states. cigarette fumes will undoubtedly rank as one of the most significant sources of indoor air pollution. passive smokingthat means somebody who does  smoke. but is in the company of a smokermay be associated with a wide range of health problems. including increased risk for respiratory illnesses. lung cancer. and heart diseases. the surgeon general says that up to 5.000 smokers may die each year from lung cancer5.000caused by inhaling other peoples smoke. the data indicates that the ones who are most at risk are children. at a hearing on the health effects of indoor air pollution before the committee on environment and public works. it became painfully clear that there is  an adequate effort by federal agencies and states to conduct research .on indoor air contaminants. this bill that we have before us today will direct the various agencies responsible for indoor air quality to coordinate their response plans to address these contaminants. i just want to briefly describe several elements of the bill. and this will be brief. first. the bill establishes a research program for indoor air. there is an appropriate role for the federal government to be in. you can expect the states. each of the states to do this. so there is $20 million for each of 5 years to get information on the risk posed by indoor air pollution. and then we get that out to the states. second. the legislation will require epa to publish what they call health advisories. these advisories must be written in plain english so the people can understand how an average citizen can reduce his or her exposure and potentially adverse health effects from indoor air contaminants. third. this measure. this bill we are considering. provides for limited grant assistance to the states. $12 million a year for 5 years. that is spread amongst all 50 states. for development of management strategies and response programs. fourth. the bill will authorize. as my distinguished colleague said. the national institute of occupational safety and health. socalled niosh. to conduct assessment of sick buildings. a sick building is one that there is uncommon occurrence amongst the population within that building of respiratory problems. estimates of lost worker productivity due to symptoms attributable to sick buildings is in the billions of dollars. there is an amendment that was added at my request in the committee for epa to conduct an assessment of the seriousness of the indoor air contamination in schools. schoolchildren are more susceptible to radon. for example. or other harmful chemicals. the total cost of this bill is $48.5 million for each of 5 years. epa estimates the annual national cost of health care. of medical care resulting from indoor air pollution. is over $1 billion a year. i would like to say something that this bill does  do. people are going to come around here on the floor today worrying is this legislation putting the federal government in everybodys living room. are we going to be telling everybody what they can or can do with their homes.  this bill does  provide authority to regulate indoor air contaminants. if somebody wants to have a house full of radon. that is his privilege. what this bill does is take an informational approach. the health advisories. for example. will indicate the health risk of these contaminants at various levels. if a person wants that in his home. fine. that is his business. the best defense we have against an unhealthy indoor environment is for the public to k and be informed. homeowners need to be aware of the risks associated with using certain pesticides. for example. if this information can be communicated effectively from the government for the people to understand. then the marketplace will send a strong signal. for example. to pesticide manufacturers. consumers will then demand safe pesticides for home use. the same is true for cleaning solvents. many of these cleaning solvents might well be quite poisos to the air environment. furniture strippers and a host of other chemicals we bring in our home may be dangerous. americans need to k how to ensure that the quality of the air inside their homes and their offices is going to be healthy. we must begin to address the health threat posed by contaminants of the air indoors. so i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this legislation. it was passed unanimously last year. i hope we can dispose of this quickly today.
