the senator is entirely correct. in terms of his figures. . i call attention to two items of evidence upon this subject aside from the evidence of our own eyes and ears and the testimony heard in the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty. which deals with the oversight of the antipoverty program in the united states. one is the report of the house committee upon which representative perkins relied in carrying both of these bills. which are incorporated in my amendment. in the other body. representative perkins pointed out that school districts are  using a rather material amount of money they were allocated for the education of poor children in order to feed those children because there was apparently other way to do it. he pointed out that in 1968 the estimate for that type feeding was something like $37.326.000. i am quoting from the report of the committee in the house at page 4. then he pointed out that the committee itself had made a survey. and i quote the words he used on page 3 of their report. which is report  1589 of this congress. dated june 26. 1968. representative perkins said: in connection with the subcommittees investigation of need. a survey was conducted of needs state by state from school lunch program directors. the results of which appear in table 1 on page 6. when we turn to table 1 on page 6. we find the following statement: "free lunches. daily average. total children receive 1.890.876." the next column shows needy children  receiving free lunches: 4.674.491. the next column shows needy children in schools which have facilities: 927.569. this amendment would cover that problem of lack of equipment. . apparently the committee in the other body. as well as our committee. headed by the senator from pennsylvania . heard testimony of a very interesting group of people. the committee on school lunch participation. which had made its own survey and published a report entitled "their daily bread." which i have here for senators to see. this organization consisted of the following sponsoring organizations: the church women united. the national board of the ywca. the national council of catholic women. the national council of jewish women. and the national council of negro women. they came up with the following conclusion which appears on page 13 of their report: as ed in the introduction. the most cherished myth about the national school lunch program is that child who really needs a lunch is allowed to go hungry. we say flatly this is  so. the report then goes on to state that over 4 million needy children are   receiving free or reduced price lunches. then. they have a chart which indicates the disparity between the number of children in the various states in families below the poverty level. or families receiving aid to dependent children. and the number of children in each state receiving free or reduced price lunches. some of these statistics are absolutely fantastic. for example. in my state of new york the number of schoolage children below the poverty level is 705.000. the number of children receiving free or reducedprice lunches is 350.000. leaving a difference of 355.000. (at this point mr. mcintyre assumed the chair.)
