subsequently said: . a few moments ago the senate passed house bill 6953 to amend the district of columbia income tax act. as amended. and for other purposes. it is a clarifying act. and i think it will be helpful if i may have unanimous consent to place in the record immediately following the passage of the bill a copy of the report of the senate committee and also a copy of a letter from the corporation counsel addressed to me under date of june 11. 1942. explaining the reasons for the clarification.
that is why i emphasized the point that the treasurys estatetax records show that only 6 percent of the capital value of estates of over $50.000 were represented by securities of this kind. the great volume of such securities actually is in the hands of trust companies and other concerns which do  pay a graduated income tax. therefore. there is a small group. and as one witness said to the committee. it amounts to "burning down the whole barn in order to catch a few mice." the collection of this proposed tax would upset the whole doctrine relative to taxation of income from securities issued by municipal and state governments.
. i too am a cosponsor of the bill. i rise only to express the hope that the committee which hears the bill will consider the whole question of the ecoics of being a senator and will consider it  only from the point of view of senators from states which have relatively small populations. but also from the point of view of senators from states which have huge populations. for example. to give one of the aalies. i do  believe i have ever personally paid any income tax on my salary. whatever the salary was. it was always absorbed by the necessary costs of being a senator. in spite of the emous allowances. there was agitation by the bar association with regard to a limitation on the nature of practice of many of us who are lawyers and have some connection with the law in order to earn a living. these are very critical questions. we try. i k that the senators k i am very cautious about the kind of case undertaken by my firm. let alone by me. i keep them completely out of washington. it is  only true of people in the law practice. but it is also true of almost any kind of business. any kind of security ownership. the whole question is involved. we must consider when we should or should  vote on a matter or make a disclosure. for example. together with other senators. i have filed for years a list of my investmentsthose of my own. and those in trust for my family so that everyone would k what securities we even have an interest in in connection with anything i do here. the important thing is  just the disclosure. the senator from new jersey
