. one measure of a nations civilization is the quality of treatment it provides persons entrusted to its care. the mentally disabled and physically handicapped are all equally entitled to enjoy the freedom of living and a chance to develop in an environment best suited to their needs. it is their constitutional right. let me stress the necessity of providing those dependent on society with the essential elements for pursuing the high quality of life they as well as everyone else in this nation is entitled to. those elements include: recognition and acceptance of each individuals handicap and capabilities. the facilities and services best suited to meet the needs of each for comfort. happiness and emotional. intellectual and physical development. and finally. the continued sensitivity to these needs so that they may continue to grow and share their valuable gifts with society. if it is necessary to conduct a casebycase analysis to determine what care each patient requires then that is what must be done. clearly. there are some individuals who are so severely retarded that they can reasonably be expected to improve significantly even with intensive training in the sheltered environment of an institution. for these people. home or community living is an unrealistic goal. adequate facilities of the highest standards must be maintained for these people. h.r. 10 provides the mechanisms needed to assure that the rights and privileges guaranteed by the constitution are extended to those residing in institutions. simply put. the bill recognizes the vulnerability of the mentally ill and developmentally disabled who lack the resources necessary to bring actions on their own to correct systematic violations of their rights. it takes a giant step toward assuring that the constitutional rights of all americans residing in institutions are protected. both the state and federal governments have a constitutional responsibility to see to this. and this bill statutorily provides for carrying out that duty. with this in mind. i urge my colleagues to vote for favorable passage of h.r. 10.
. there is denying that these changes represent a significant politicization of the endangered species act and that these alterations are an unfortunate occurrence. conservationists should doubtless prepare to exercise even greater vigilance and to engage in more litigation than has previously been necessary. while we can be glad we have fought back many of the regressive attacks on this law. todays victories can provide us real joy. clearly. we must all redouble the effort to keep the american people aware of the importance of protecting the natural diversity of our ecosystem.o
