. i voted against the further funding of the sst last time and i have decided to vote against it again . i continue to believe that the development of this aircraft. at this time and in this way. is an unwise investment for the federal government in terms of the allocation of our federal financial resources. and it also compounds the fiscal problems of our airlines which could very well result in further calls upon the federal government for major financial assistance or even a takeover. i have carefully weighed again the arguments and evidence relating to the development of the sstincluding its potential impact on the ecoy. on the environment. on employment. on international trade. and on the present circumstances of war. inflation. and budget limitations. while i believe many factors weigh heavily against its further development. i am concerned principally with the ecoic considerations and the question of our national priorities. these are the two principal factors which led me last year and lead me  to vote against including these additional funds for the sst. i find it unseemly that at a time when we are involved in a war and when so many other crucial needs remain unfulfilled that we should be marching ahead with a federally funded program that is more of a luxury than a necessity. i would support a reduced appropriation for research and development with the intention of slowing down the pace of the development program. in that way. although total costs may be somewhat higher. actual yearly spending would be reduced. leaving funds for more urgent programs. there also would be more time to investigate and correct environmental hazards and pass. in a more deliberate fashion. any necessary environmentalprotection laws. furthermore. the general ecoy and the depressed financial conditions of the airlines would be given time to improve. with this additional time. the airlines would  be forced by business competition to buy ssts in these financially difficult times. further. a slower pace may allow development of the sst to leapfrog beyond the present concept of supersonic travel to perhaps an even more advanced aircraft. with respect to the impact of the sst on trade. i consider the continuance of an enlightened u.s. trade policy far more important to our balanceofpayments position and our export interests than the sst. the balanceofpayments argument with respect to the sst can and should  be separated from our overall trade policy. last year. a member of the council of ecoic advisers observed that if the united states goes protectionist. the sst would be dead in terms of export potential. i am  convinced that the administration or the congress will follow an overall trade policy conducive to the promotion of our export interests. if we go down the road of closing our market to the goods of others without regard to internationally accepted injury criteria. if we do  pass the generalized preferences scheme and thus encourage europe and japan to go regional. if we choose the course of trade war over trade peace. who will buy the sst. unfortunately. this is an up or down vote. one which does  leave any latitude for efforts to slow down the program and one which could likely result in the cancellation of the program. but i believe the only way i can record my views is to vote "" i. for one. do  want to see this program completely discarded. i believe other financing arrangements.  principally dependent on the federal government. can be found. certainly if the sst is going to be as commercially sound and technically feasible and as safe to the environment as is claimed and if the foreign supersonics continue to show reduced productivity potential and technical capacity. the financial community should be willing to invest its own resources in ita fundamental market.ace test of any new product. my efforts and desire to help maintain employment in the aircraft industry in new york state and elsewhere in the nation remain undiminished. but there are other ways to help in this crucial techogical area besides the subcontracting work on the sst. e for example the award for the prototype of the new air force support plane to a new york aircraft manufacturer. certainly. my desire to help the industry and the workers is one of the reasons i would support a modified program. but in this instance i believe . as i did at the time of the last vote. that the weight of the evidence requires me to vote against this particular appropriation in the interest of the overwhelming majority of the people of my state.
