ial proclamation on tariffs of 1933. waterproof footwear is defined as "composed wholly or in chief value of india rubber." this has been interpreted to mean "natural rubber." although a large part of imported footwear is composed of synthetic rubber or plastics. and compete directly with footwear composed of natural rubber. it is able to escape the american duty. in 1962 the tariff commission in its tariff classification study declared that this distinction is "technical in nature" and results in an "aaly." as the commission pointed out. there is practical distinction between footwear of natural rubber or synthetic rubber. i am today introducing an amendment to the tariff act of 1930 that will correct this discrepancy and carry out the original intent of the congress that all waterproof footwear be placed under the same tariff duty.  only will this measure ease the administration of the act. it will put the u.s. policy on waterproof footwear on the same basis as that of the principal exporters of this footwear to the united states.
 of the interamerican development bank recently addressed the 57th national foreign trade convention to give what i believe is one of the most realistic and perceptive assessments of the latin american situation and its implications for the future. and for the direction of u.s. policy. it is an outstanding and immensely valuable analysis which merits our close attention. and i include his remarks. entitled "change in latin america and the interamerican development bank." at this point in the record for careful reading:
 needs the authorization h.r. 8293 provides to implement our commitment to the agreement through september 1973. the high visibility of our commitmentif there were other reasonsargues for the united states to be very meticulous in fulfilling it. especially in these times when the fabric of international cooperation must be woven even more carefully if numerous current issues are to be resolved constructively. there are several features of the international coffee agreement which are particularly valuable to the american consumer. during periods of mal coffee harvests in the producing countries. the ica mechanism operates to stabilize coffee import pirices by linking production levels to projected world demand. from 1965 to 1969 coffee import pricesa major determinant of the retail priceactually fell. at a time when the overall consumer price index was moving up rapidly. then. in the aftermath of the heavy and damaging freeze in brazil during 1969. the destabilizing pressures on world prices were muted by the mechanism of the agreement. and prices were held well below the peak registered in 1954 when a similar short harvest occurred. the u.s. import price of coffee today is at a lower level than the average price during the decade of the 1950s. and despite two severe frosts in brazil the price of coffee in real terms has gone up only 9.7 percent during the life of the agreement. clearly. the effect of the international coffee agreement has been substantial. price stability. one can say without hesitation. is a matter of high concern in this chamber. its continuation with regard to coffee is one of the objectives which h.r. 8293 will serve well. the second objective of this legislation is less topical for the congress as it strives to strengthen our balanceofpayments position. for the 41producer members of the international coffee agreement. coffee sales represent a highly important source of foreign exchange earnings. coffee is the most significant agricultural export of the developing world. for the developing countries of latin america. africa. and asia. coffee is second only to petroleum among all commodities as a source of foreign exchange. the list of producer countries includes a high proportion with which the united states has maintained a favorable balance of trade over a long period of years. and from which we have seen the dollars spent on coffee returning to our own exporters in exchange for a wide variety of goods and services. for example. united states exports to the 14 major latin american coffeeproducing countries were $4.7 billion during 1970. to a major degree. the future of that trade depends on the smooth growth of coffee supply and consumption. worldwide. which 62 nations have found best assured through the instrumentality of the ica. but the effects extend well beyond the earning of foreign exchange by the producers. the agreement. in addition. lends stability to such elements as employment rates and governmental revenues which. in turn. lessens the uncertainties with which the planners of national development efforts have to contend. thus. the ica has a widespread salutory effect on the development aspirations of producer nations. i am convinced. for all these reasons. that the discipline to which the great number of developing countries. and many developed countries. submit in adhering to the ica is a heartening form of enlightenment and an example of international cooperation which the united states should find worthy of continued support.
. as the issue of u.s. trade policy becomes daily more visible. i am concerned by the arguments of many that the keystone in improving our trade policy is the imposition of expanded trade quotas. while there are a great number of constructive and necessary steps which can be taken to ease our trade and balanceofpayments problems. including initiatives to provide relief from unfair international trade practices and to increase the flow of u.s. exports. i fear that import quotas may. in fact. eliminate more american jobs through overall reductions in exports than will be gained by restricting -imports. i would like to take this opportunity to call to the attention of my colleagues the following report by prof. ann krueger of the university of minnesota in which the probable effect of trade quotas on our job market is analyzed:
. under mal conditions i should be opposed to any kind of a special committee of the senate. i do  think this type of committee belongs within the purview of the legislative reorganization act. or. at least. that it is in line with the interpretation which 7. think should be placed upon the functioning of the senate under that act. however. i think we have here a particular instance in which an exception should be made. had this committee  started operations a year ago and been continued as it has been to the present time. i think i should still be opposed. but. under the circumstances. as the committee has under consideration problems pertaining to steel. oil. export controls. and other questions which are extremely important to our domestic ecoy at the present time. crossing. as they do. the activities of at least half a dozen of the standing committees. i think it would be a very serious mistake to discontinue the committee at this time. whether or  it should be continued or revived after the present year. is something  under discussion at the present time. i feel very strongly that the committee. as it  stands. should be continued for the remainder of the year. presumably in the future. if this work is to be carried on by a special committee of any nature. it should be carried on by a joint congressional committee. it so happens that the work of the two committees. the committee of the house and the committee of the senate. sometimes collides. sometimes parallels. this type of work is so important that there never should be a condition in which there would be any collision or contradiction in the work of the committees involved. under the circumstances. i feel very strongly that the committee should be allowed to complete its work this year.
. i wish to join in the discussion of this matter. i gather from what the chairman of the appropriations committee has said that he is going to look into the matter through his committee. without delay. i hope he does so. and i hope the committee will obtain the full facts. it seems to me that it does very little good to lift the arms embargo unless the other situation ceases. it must be stopped. of course our arms embargo should be lifted- while this condition of war continues. but if this other activity continuesand that would seem to be the prospect at the present timeit seems to me that immediately our government should exercise its every influence to have the british governments apparent present policy stopped.
i should like to raise with the senator a question which perhaps he will include in his remarks. but i should like to obtain an answer if he does  intend to make a statement regarding it. section 3. on page 7. provides the procedure which is to be followed before the president may act. in other words. he has to furnish to the tariff commission the list of articles and so forth with respect to which it is contemplated that such agreement is to be made. then finally. on page 8. in line 3. it is provided: such foreign trade agreement shall be entered into until the commission has made its report to the president. it seems to me that this is something which might provide. unwittingly. to be sure. a veto over action by the president. does the senator intend to discuss that question.
so far as that is concerned. as i understand. the president would  be in any way prevented from going ahead under the provisions as they  exist. as the act  stands. under any executive order he may iiake he is independent. but under this proposed provision he would be utterly dependent upon action by the tariff commission. it seems to me that a reasonable limit as to time might well be provided. with the understanding that if the tariff commission were  able to obtain the information and present it within such period of time. perhaps an additional period. up to a certain point. might be allowed. after which it seems to me the president should.be allowed to proceed.
i -can see that:..that would remedy t% i ifficulty.. whybould  a provision" laced in the bill requiring that within 3 months. for example. the tariff commission must report back. and if it finds it impossible to report back in that period of time. perhaps several extensions of 30 days each might be granted. depending upon the way in which the act might be intended to work.
in that connection. i should .like to emphasize what i previously stated in the question i posed to the able senator from texas. namely. that the prob.lem in southern italy is primarily agrarian. but that does  mean that the eca undertaking is restricted primarily to industrial projects and foreign trade applicable only to industrial projects and industrial undertakings. for the most part. the land in southern italy is a very poor type of soil. the mountains are  conducive to very much production of agricultural commodities or to very much agricultural activity. the soil there -must be built up. under the eca program. measures are being taken to build up the soil. so as to put southern italy into such a condition that. from an agrarian standpoint. it will be able to take care of itself. furthermore. i wish to point out that the great population problem in italy is peculiarly acute in southern italy. and that also bears on this matter. but let it  be understood that the eca is  interested in this type of effort or is  doing anything in this field. i. myself. happen to have had some direct contacts in southern italy in recent months. and i k that a particular effort is being directed in that area of italy. all under eca.
i ask the senator from new jersey to wait just a minute. please. for i do  believe that is the whole import of the paragraph. the import of the paragraph is chiefly the fact that possibly. and very possibly. by means of an interpretation which might be placed upon it in the future. we in the senate and the members of the house of representatives might be faced with a condition wherein we would have an exact number of troops about which to debate. for instance. such a situation might arise in connection with the making of appropriations. if we are to assume that hing would be done under the terms of the resolution. we might definitely be faced with a terrifically controversial question in such a case. and it might lead to a very long debate. i do   refer to a filibuster. for there can always be long debate without a filibuster. after all. the intent involved is what determines whether a long debate is or is  a filibuster. however. let us say that. under the terms of article 3 of the th atlantic treaty. in the future we reach a point where. although a war has  started. yet we see one in the offing. judging by the conditions then existing. let us suppose that we then were to have a long debate on the matter of additional troops for europe. that is what i am talking about. any resolution we may adopt will thus have a definite effect upon us. and i am also concerned with its effect on the treaty itself in that connection.
. i have in my hand a table which has been prepared by the national milk producers federation. indicating the export price of butter and cheese in various competing countries. i ask unanimous consent that at this point the table be inserted in the record. because it substantiates very effectively and very eloquently all the senator from washington has just stated. it is very essential that this amendment be adopted. and i shall be very glad to support it.
to amend the amendment offered by mr. moody by inserting in the appropriate place the following new section: scc. 5. title i of the defense production act of 1950 is hereby amended by adding the following section: "sec. 104. withstanding the provisions of any other law. import controls of fats and oils (including oilbearing materials. fatty acids. and soap and soap powder. but excluding petroleum and petroleum products and coconuts and coconut products). peanuts. butter. cheese and other dairy products. and rice and rice products are necessary for the protection of the essential security interests and ecoy of the united states in the existing emergency in international relations. and imports of any such commodity or product shall be admitted to the united states until after june 30. 1953. which would (a) impair or reduce the domestic production of any such commodity or product below present production levels. or below such higher levels as the secretary of agriculture may deem necessary in view of domestic and international conditions. or (b) interfere with the orderly domestic storing and marketing of any such commodity or product. or (c) result in any unnecessary burden or expenditures under any government pricesupport program."
. the reaction in latin america to house resolution 560 recently passed by this house has been critical. and i might say predictable. the point that the distinguished miity leader made the other day with regard to the report has been highlighted by unanimous resolutions passed by the legislative bodies in both colombia and peru. and has been the subject of sharp criticism in brazil. mexico. argentina. venezuela. and chile. two things are indicated: the state department should be forthright with regard to its position on the resolutioer and beyond its clarification of september 21and it should reaffirm its commitment to the principle of collective security. second. i think this house should consider a resolution which would reaffirm our commitment to the collective security system of the americas under the interamerican treaty of reciprocal assistance and the charter of the organization of american states. our determination to maintain a common defense against aggression and subversion within the americas. including efforts to subvert free institutions by infiltration and other forms of interference in the internal affairs of any nation in the americas. and our active support of the alliance for progress with emphasis on selfhelp and mutual cooperation. ecoic integration of the americas through common markets. free trade areas. or other appropriate means. moreover. in my judgment. the resolution should state our intention to improve the authority and capability of the oas to take timely action in emergencies affecting the peace and security of any nation in the americas. i intend to introduce on monday a concurrent resolution along these lines with members from both sides of the aisle. as of possible interest to members. under unanimous consent i include reports on the reaction to house resolution 560 in a number of latin american countries and in the united states: [from the washington (d.c.) star. sept. 23. 1965]
. i was pleased to see that h.r. 8664. to implement the florence agreement. signed by the united states in 1959 and consented to by the senate in 1960. passed the house. my own bill on the subject is h.r. 16054. my statement should and does also cover support of the beirut agreement for audiovisual devices. the history of the florence agreement goes back to the 1949 general conference of the united nations educational. scientific. and cultural organizationunesco. i believe the agreement was a milestone in the maturation of the 50 nations that signed it. ecoic barriers on imports pertaining to educational and cultural materials serve purpose in the 20th century. nation can afford to place itself in political isolation. and with stronger reason. a nation can and should  establish a tariff schedule that forces its people into a state of cultural isolation. the effect of the bill would  be harmful to domestic ecoic interests. its greatest effect would be on the importation of technical books. antiques. and scientific equipment. for example. under our present tariff laws. books of foreign authorship are subject to a duty of 3 percent ad valorem. imports worth about $39 million are involved. see on this tsus 270.45 u.s. imports for consumption and general imports 1964. u.s. department of commerce. bureau of the census. under the bill this duty would be eliminated in this specific area. less than $2 million of revenue is involved. as our nation has traveled down the path of diplomacy. we have met many obstacles. fortunately. they have been only temporary detours in our quest for world peace. this bill widens the path by enlarging the channels of communications between nations. a societys mental growth should  be restricted by ecoic sanctions. i hope that this bill will  receive careful consideration in the senate. i believe its speedy passage will help to remove one more obstacle that blocks our path toward world peace and understanding. this congress being an important catalyst in the preservation of the free world. should  incorporate into our law the necessary powers to implement the agreement we signed in 1959.
. i urge my colleagues to consider carefully the import of the legislation i am introducing today. if we fail to bring to a halt military training programs custom tailored to suit the military needs of nations which have declared to the world that they are our adversaries. we are simply encouraging an aalous situation that is clearly contrary to our nations security.
. i rise in support of h.r. 10915. a bill that would prohibit purchases of extralong staple cotton produce from nations that have severed diplomatic relations with the united states. my own bill to similar effect is h.r. 11776. the main objective of this bill would eliminate one of the united arab republics major export outlets of extralongstaple cotton. extralongstaple cotton in the raw or processed form constitutes over 35 percent of the united arab republics export trade. these exports bring foreign capital into the united arab republic with which it can purchase military hardware for aggressive acts against israel. further. as long as the united arab republic has such sources of foreign exchange. she can afford to keep the suez canal closed and inflict trade difficulties on all nations using that international waterway. to fulfill our domestic cotton demand. the department of agriculture has informed me that we have about ayear and 3 months supply of extralongstaple cotton sitting in government surplus storage. furthermore. this measure will strengthen our own extralongstaple cotton production which currently runs around $18 million annually. but has been estimated to be able to reach over twice that production level. in light of these facts. i see reason why the united states should continue to subsidize indirectly. a nation whose enmity toward the united states is daily made obvious. and whose avowed goal is the destruction of israela model of democracy. and one of our nations most stalwart allies.
i thank the chair. . little i believe is gained by reviewing history and assessing blame on this party or that. suffice it to say that there is a long history of bitterness between greece and turkey with each nation being able to recount in detail why the other is at fault. let us take this situation as it  exists and try to determine what is best for the united states of america. there are three major reasons that in my judgment make it compelling that we lift the arms embargo on turkey. the first point concerns the original reason for imposing the embargo. namely cyprus. since the arms embargo was placed on turkey in february of 1975over 3 years agothere has been a virtual freeze on negotiations and progress toward a cyprus solution. both turkey and greece are inhibited from moving on cyprus while an embargo is in effect. any turkish government must buck strong domestic pressures if it chooses to be conciliatory regarding cyprus. such moves are looked upon as a buckling to foreign pressure. thus. the embargo hinders. rather than fosters. progress. the annual battle that takes place in this congress on the subject only serves to remind the turks that they being uniquely singled out. as senator bentsen previously mentioned and being uniquely punished. other nation has been so punished. other nation has an arms embargo on turkey. this is something only we do. ill feelings between the two nations are inflamed by the realization that the greeks are the principal supporters of the embargo. as for greece. the embargo has shifted the focus away from the real issues on cyprus to a concentration on keeping the embargo on turkey as an end in itself. the second major point that i would like to briefly touch on is the rule of law which senator bentsen also mentioned. congress originally imposed the embargo. on turkey because of turkish actions in 1974 responding to an attempted coup on cyprus. while most of us agree with turkeys point that the 1960 treaty of guaranty signed by greece. great britain. and turkey provided a legal basis for turkeys initial reaction of sending troops to cyprus. it was the second major troop movement that has caused congress to find a violation of u.s. law and impose the arms embargo. one could debate all day long the merits of both greeces and turkeys actions back in 1974. the fact remains. however. that congress found a significant violation on turkeys part and imposed the sanction of a full arms embargo at that time. turkey has  only suffered materially from the embargo. it has also been humiliated. the sting of the punishment has caused the turks frustration and bitterness. which gradually is turning to alienation. their attitude is readily understandable. just as in human relationships. so it is with international dealings: humiliating the other party never leads to permanent harmony. the sanction imposed on turkey over 3 years ago has outlived its usefulness. we have made our point. it is that apparent our best interests are being damaged. little is gained by unblindingly justifying our current position as "principle." as if there was involved here some fundamental concept written in permanency. untouched by changing events or the challenges of a less than perfect world. we will hear the word "principle" raised constantly. as though one side has a mooly on principle. third. and most important of all. the continued existence of this embargo is damaging to the best interests of the united states. we belong to and support nato because of our own national security. it is  some altruistic thing we are doing in support of nato. we do it because it is best for us. the wellbeing of that alliance is a cornerstone of our foreign policy. both greece and turkey are extremely important members of nato. as gen. david jones. chairman of the joint chiefs. stated recently before the foreign relations committee: due to their unique geographic position. their control over sea and air exits from the black sea area. and defense arrangements with the united states and nato. greece and turkey constitute a vital link in the western defense system. clearly. a strong and friendly greece and a strong and friendly turkey are matters of the utmost imrortance for the united states and nato. unfortunately. the events in 1974 have led to a situation where greek forces are longer specifizally committed to nato and the greek military has withdrawn from the natointegrated military command structure. fortunately. the state of united statesgreece relations has improved to the point where we do have reason to hope that greece will come back as a full military partner in nato. turkeys military readiness. since the embargo was imposed. has suffered tremendously. the material state of the turkish armed forces has plummeted to the point where very serious deficiencies could prevent turkey from doing its job in nato. the problems that turkish armed forces face do. indeed. go well beyond what the arms embargo has caused. we recognize that. lifting the arms embargo will  be a cureall for the problems of turkish military. the proposal before us today does  increase the amount of military sales over what turkey received last year$175 million. however. the lifting of the embargo will have immediate salutary effects on the turkish military situation: $70 million of aid that was in the pipeline in 1974 will be released. once again. turkish officers will attend u.s intangible benefits for both sides but. most important of all. ending the embargo will start healing the bitterness. humiliation. and alienation that has occurred over the past 3 years. once again. turkey can feel that she is a welcomed member of nato that enjoys the full support and friendship of the united states. she will feel we are dedicated to doing all we can to assist her military forces to become modernized so that she can defend herself and assist the alliance. as has been mentioned. a friendly turkey pins down 26 warsaw pact divisions that could otherwise go elsewhere and exert greater pressure on nato. a friendly turkey provides to the united states and nato forward basing of u.s. tactical fighter aircraft. peacetime training facilitiesparticularly at konya range. which is of tremendous importance in giving pilots realistic training in airtoground activities. major support facilities for the u.s. 6th fleet. including 20 percent of that fleets fuel assets in the mediterranean. important communication facilities. as well as storage sites for war reserve materials. should the united states elect to continue this policy of humiliating and eventually alienating turkey. the consequences can only be adverse regarding the very real and important support turkey  gives the united states and nato. already. as a result of the u.s. action of imposing the embargo. we are losing irreplaceable intelligence information from bases in turkey that have been closed since 1974. these bases are needed to restore clarity to certain areas of our surveillance of soviet military activity. i k that some say that these intelligence bases do  mean a whit of difference to the united states. they have hing to do with salt verification. some say. well. let us see what those who are closest to the situation have to state in this regard. as adm. stansfield turner. director of central intelligence. wrote last week regarding the importance of turkey to our intelligence mission: turkeys importance ranks very high because of the crucial areas in which its contribution is felt: treaty verification. support of nato commitments. and indications. warning and crises management. some of these contributions are unique and  replaceable. e that admiral turner refers to treaty verification. some have suggested turkey is unimportant as a base from which to monitor salt. may i quote from a dialog that took place on june 28 of this year in the senate armed services committee hearing involving the lifting of this embargo. secretary of defense brown was testifying. it will be recalled that long before mr. brown assumed his present position. he served as one of the salt negotiators. there are few men in the united states who are more kledgeable of salt matters than secretary brown. here is the dialog: senator nunn. how valuable are the u.s. intelligence gathering activities in turkey. secretary brown. they are particularly important both for monitoring soviet military activity in the southwestern military districts of the ussr. in monitoring development of certain soviet weapon systems. which are going on in the region of the black sea. and in monitoring development tests that are relevant to the strategic arms limitations agreements. senator nunn. how much damage has already been done in that regard. secretary brown. a fair amount. in some cases we have been able to replace those techniques. the results of collections from those stations by using other methods. although  as effectively. in some cases we have  been able to replace them. senator nunn. you have some irreplaceable intelligence activities in turkey. is that what you are saying. secretary brown. yes. sir. it seems to me that. in this period of extreme difficulty with the soviets  only with regard to salt but all the other weapons problems that exist. this is  the time to cut off any intelligence activities where we might garner additional information from the soviets. some ask "if we end the embargo on turkey. wont we lose greece as an ally. wont the opposition come to power." hing is certain in this world. we do k that mr. karamanlis. the prime minister of greece. has the strongest majority57 percentof any government in western europe. we further k that. elections in greece will occur for 3 years. we also k. as the majority leader pointed out. that we are  choosing turkey over greece. we are solely dealing with removing a thorn in our relations with turkey. i do  believe it should be essential for our friendship with greece that we have had relations with turkey. that makes sense. if we lift the embargo it is secretary vances opinion. which i share. that while there may be shortterm strains in our relationship with greece. nevertheless. putting behind us the complication of the embargo. which serves as a wedge between us and the countries in the area. will in the long run promote a reconciliation between greece and turkey. it is entirely consistentand historically true that we have both nations as close and trusted allies. in short. the united states needs a friendly turkey to carry out extremely important national security functions in that part of the world. indeed. greece and turkey are essential to each other. turkey without greece or greece without turkey stands to be under a greatly increased amount of soviet and warsaw pact pressure.
yes. i just want to reply ouickly. if i might. to the remarks made by the senator from delaware in which he said. "what do we get out of this if we remove the embargo." let me say quickly. . we do get something out of itthe united states doesif this embargo is lifted. something tangible and something immediate. i thank the chair.
. it seems to me  only toward settling the situation in cyprus but more especially in the own direct interest of the united states it behooves us to vote for the lifting of this embargo so that we can restore some sort of tranquility with our relations with turkey and indeed in our relations with greece.
. i support this measure which would extend the authority of the secretary of the treasury to waive the application of countervailing duties. the trade act of 1974 authorized the secretary of the treasury to waive the application of countervailing duties for a 4year period to encourage completion of the multilateral trade negotiations (mtn). this authority expired january 2. 1979 and the negotiations are  yet completed. the united states will gain much in terms of export opportunities for our industrial and agricultural products from this agreement. passage of this extension of authority does  in any way prejudge the merits or demerits of the mtn package. it does  condone foreign subsidy practices or other unfair trade practices. this is a procedural matter but an important onewithout it the congress will  have opportunity to consider the agreements themselves. extension of the waiver authority. which will send a signal to the europeans that the united states wishes to zomplete the multilateral trade negotiations. is supported by a broad range of industries and associations. the house of representatives passed this extension overwhelmingly and without amendments. i urge the senate to support extension of the waiver authority so that the congress and the american people can judge for themselves the fruits of the tokyo round.*
s commission on foreign language and international studies. it also has the advantage of ending the competition between higher education and the elementary and secondary levels caused by the old funding trigger provision. it does this by moving the latter elements to the elementary and secondary education act. yet. the bill recognizes the need for integration of the international dimension across all educational levels by providing for single advisory board oversight. by moving ndeas title vi to the higher education act title vi. the act has the effect of giving the international dimension of higher education legislation a more prominent place. this will benefit the teaching. research. and contract functions of our colleges and universities. it will also help to change the way the higher education act is perceived as a whole. it has the potential of leading to the review of the relationship of title vi to other higher education act titles in much the same way university administrators must develop links between their institutions resources. similarly. the addition of part b. dealing with export education. will have predictable positive effects beyond its purpose of helping the country to cope with its pressing need to export. by being combined with the old ndea. it will invite new creativity. expand the constituency of americans learning about the rest of the world. and will bring to international education the dynamism of the american business community. this could be an emous positive developmentfor education and for the ecoy. finally. it is my hope that in addition to more international education. this legislation will promote more internationalism in education. by this i mean that education in any one country stands to gain through an exchange of ideas and experiences in other countries. this legislation lays the groundwork for such shared kledge. we k that our own system bears the mark of importation. certainly horace mann and others made their own adaptations to european models. but at least it was  necessary to invent them for a second time. likewise. our contribution here today in the area of international education deserves careful study by other nations as well. as a member of the senate export caucus. and the intelligence committee. i find this to be a most important addition to the higher education act. it is a wellconceived bill. and it merits everyones support.
s commission on foreign language and international studies. it also has the advantage of ending the competition between higher education and the elementarv and secondary levels caused by the old funding trigger provision. it does this by moving the latter elements to the elementary and secondary education act. yet. the bill recognizes the need for integration of the international dimension across all educational levels by providing for single advisory board oversight. by moving ndeas title vi to the higher education act title vi. the act has the effect of giving the international dimension of higher education legislation a more prominent place. this will benefit the teaching. research. and contract functions of our colleges and universities. it will also help to change the way the higher education act is perceived as a whole. it has the potential of leading to the review of the relationship of title vi to other higher education act titles in much the same way university administrators must develop links between their institutions resources. similarly. the addition of part b. dealing with export education. will have predictable positive effects beyond its purpose of helping the country to cope with its pressing need to export. by being combined with the old ndea. it will invite new creativity. expand the constituency of americans learning about the rest of the world. and will bring to international education the dynamism of the american business community. this could be an emous positive developmentfor education and for the ecoy. finally. it is my hope that in addition to more international education. this legislation will promote more internationalism in education. by this i mean that education in any one country stands to gain through an exchange of ideas and experiences in other countries. this legislation lays the groundwork for such shared kledge. we k that our system bears the mark of importation. certainly horace mann and others made their own adaptations to european models. but at least it was  necessary to invent them for a second time. likewise. our contribution here today in the area of international education deserves careful study by other nations as well. as a member of the international trade subcommittee and of the intelligence committee. i am pleased to have been an original cosponsor of this new title vi section. when it was introduced by senators stafford and javits. it is a most important addition to the higher education act.*
i thank the distin. guished miity leader for that assistance. i k both leaders arp concerned about this issue. i had an opportunit5 to discuss it in some detail with them. it is my hope if. as appears unlikely. we can handle it before we leave. then when we return it will be possible. let us discuss the merits or demerits of the bill here on the floorin a free trade of ideas. let there be the competition of the market. let us arrive at what is best. above all. let this blls. 2216come to the floor so we might vote on it. 
. as a member of the international trade subcommittee of the senate finance committee. i strongly support h.r. 5047. legislation which temporarily suspends duties on a variety of imported products. and am pleased that the senate has approved this measure in the closing days of the 96th congress. while this measure may be controversial. it is indeed important trade legislation. h.r. 5047. like other omnibus tariff suspension or reduction measures. demonstrates our commitment to policies of freer trade. and to the benefits to be derived as a result of such trade for manufacturers and consumers alike. of special interest to me in this legislation is section 113. which temporarily suspends the current duty on warp knitting textile machines. the tariff on these products is unnecessary because there has been domestic production of warp knitting machinery used by the textile industry for the past 5 years. during this time. significant advances have been made by foreign manufacturers of this equipment. the result is a new generation of machinery which will enable warp knit fabric mills to produce a more competitive product for both united states and foreign markets. the most recent available statistics on u.s. manufacturers shows that there are nearly 250 warm knit fabric plants located in this country. which account for 25.000 employees. i am pleased to e that more than a dozen of these firms are located in my home state of rhode island. once the capital of the textile industry. and employ nearly 1.500 of my constituents. these figures may  appear impressive to some larger states. but in rhode island. textile manufacturers contribute importantly to the state ecoy and employment. today. these manufacturers. especially among warp knit fabric plants. produce goods for export as well as for domestic consumption. the existing u.s. duty on warp knitting machines of 6.7 percent ad valorem places our domestic knitting mills at a competitive disadvantage with foreign producers. most of these machines are purchased from producers located in five european countries. when a manufacturer of warp knit fabric in the united states purchases one of these new. foreignmade machines. many of which sell for over $60.000 per unit. a duty of between $3.000 to $5.000 is reflected in the price. if. on the other hand. a u.s. textile manufacturer does  purchase this machinery. his products will  benefit from the design and manufacturing flexibility of this advanced equipment. this problem was ed during the recent multilateral trade negotiations (mtn) and as a result of these discussions the duty on warp knitting machines has begun a phasein reduction from 7 percent in 1979 to 4.7 percent in 1987. etheless this agreement provides little or measurable relief for the domestic textile industry at the present time. especially in absence of any domestic manufacturer of the machinery. given the current state of the art of textile machine production. the thern textile association predicts that it would take a minimum of 5 years for a u.s. machinery manufacturer to develop equipment which would be competitive with the latest foreignproduced machines. techogy development in this area is cyclical and the new phase  underway in europe makes it unlikely that a u.s. manufacturer would undertake an expensive longterm commitment necessary to produce a competitive product. both the house and senate trade subcommittees have recognized this fact. and have recommended a 3year suspension provided in h.r. 5047. such a duty suspension will allow u.s. companies to begin their necessary equipment replacemnt programs n an orderly and extended period. during this time of high interest rates. the 3year suspension is especially important to textile plans attempting to become more efficient and productive. enactment of h.r. 5047 will be beneficial to american manufacturers and consumers. suspending the duty on these machines will encourage u.s. firms to replace outmoded equipment. purchasing the new equipment without the penalty of a tariff will mean that a greater variety of products will be available to the consumer. at more competitive prices. in this way. purchases of these new machines will stimulate both employment and exports. in fact. the u.s. warp knit fabric industry has worked diligently to expand its share of foreign markets. between 1977 and 1979. exports of such fabrics made with manmade fibers increased by 90 percent reaching sales of over $6 million. the warp knit fabrics are in demand by designers. manufacturers. and consumers. u.s. manufacturers must be prepared to meet increased demands and competition. both domestically and abroad. temporary removal of a tariff which longer serves the purpose for which it was intended will be an important benefit to the textile industry. i join with all my colleagues. who are concerned about the preservation of our free trade policies. the ecoic health of one of our nations most important industries. and the creation of new jobs through increased exports. to support h.r. 5047. the omnibus tariff bill.0
. i believe that this legislation is a welcome and needed addition to existing wildlife law. it provides sufficient safeguards against indiscriminate enforcement efforts while. at the same time. providing the tools needed to control the burgeoning international trade in illicitly taken fish. wildlife. and plants. for these reasons. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the legislation and the article from the march 1981 issue of national geographic magazine describing the extent of the international wildlife smuggling problem be printed in the record.
. on january 21. 1982.  of american express. gave a speech at the national press club on the problems facing the u.s. services industry. mr. robinsons speech emphasizes the need to reexamine all ecoic indicators to reflect the fact that service industries  employ more than 70 percent of all americans and contribute twothirds of our gross national product. additionally. mr. robinsons speech correctly points to the need to recognize the importance of service industries in our trade policy in light of the fact that in 1981. the service industry was responsible for the first overall surplus in our balance of payments since to insure the continued health of u.s. service industries. mr. robinson advocates a fourpointaction plan which calls for: first. an increase in the visibility of the issue of trade in services. second. efforts to insure that u.s. laws and ecoic and monetary policy take full account of the service sectors importance in the american ecoy. third. reform of our international trade legislation to deal with service problems. and fourth. the negotiation of an international agreement on trade in services. as a member of the finance subcommittee on international trade. i intend to promote mr. robinsons fourpoint plan and make trade in services one of my priorities during the remainder of this session of congress. i will also encourage the administration. through the introduction of legislation -and other means. to make trade in services a focal point of u.s. trade policy. mr. robinsons speech is an effective statement of the importance of focusing on the problems faced by the u.s. services industry. i commend it to my colleagues and ask that it be printed in the record. the speech follows:
i can. but because so many people are interested in this book. i thought i would read the front page so we can get an understanding of its weight and merit. this is the center for strategic and international studies significant issues series. "the ecoic importance of exports to the united states." by jack carlson and hugh graham. it is the u.s. export competitiveness project. georgetown universitya prestigious institution in washington. d.c. that is just the cover i was reading
. we must act to create an international framework to deal with trade in services problems while we still have a trade surplus in that area instead of waiting until we have a deficit. we should take steps  to insure that the rapidly expanding world trade in services remains free and open. i believe that the proposal contained in this bill will serve as an important tool for achieving this goal. the trade and investment act. incorporating the provision of trade in services. is a constructive tool that reflects the nature of our export trade and will serve to further our trade interests and the interests of liberal trade overall. i urge my colleagues to support this bill.
. i would like to congratulate the government of japan for taking a major step forward in enchancing united statesjapanese trade relations. the japanese diet has todky approved legislation allowing selfcertification for 16 broad categories of import products. . rather than subjecting each import item to costly and time consuming dockside examination. japan will  accept self certification by manufacturers. this legislation is expected to benefit 60 percent of u.s.-manufactured exports to japan. the united states already allows selfcertification of products imported into this country. this action removes a serious impediment to the sale of american exports to japan. it represents an important break through for freer world trade and demonstrates to those who seek a protectionist response to trade barriers that steady negotiations do work. producing genuine reforms rather than retaliation. by revamping their certification standards. the japanese have demonstrated a spirit of cooperation and a commitment to greater foreign access to their markets. let me commend particularly the nakasone government for recognizing the need for such reform and its leadership in bringing it about. i would also commend ambassador brock for his very dedicated and skillful work in bringing about the resolution of a matter of longstanding u.s. concern. there is still more to be done on standards. implementing regulations will have to be developed. and automobile imports must still be addressed. but the steps taken today go a long way toward resolving an important trade problem. this resolution can only be of benefit to the united states. japan. and world trade.o
. i can divine any logical reason for this situation. indeed. i find it extremely illogical and counterproductive to the trade and foreign relations goals of u.s. tariff programs such as the gsp and cbi. the present tariff schedule was established before the enactment of tariff preference programs. there is legislative history on this matter. and i can only conclude that the imposition of a tariff on reentry of products originat.ing from gsp or cbi nations was never anticipated or intended. i urge my colleagues support op this bill. end i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. while import restrictions may provide the protected industry a "free ride." protectionism is  without heavy cost. it comes at the expense of  only our trading partners. but also our trade relations and credibility as a free trading nation. more concretely. it comes at the real expense of the american consumer. we have a good many legitimate concerns about japanese trade policies and practices. but their auto exports are  among them. these exports represent fair and salutary competition. they have provided the american consumer with a choice and have shaken our own industry from its torpor. resulting in a better american car as well. let us  dissipate our energies and our trading partners good will over the narrow interests of a healthy industry. i urge the administration to resist the pressure for renewed auto import protection. and i pledge to fight such proposals in congress.
i want to say to the majority leader that sad though it is. the fourth year of the import quotas just started on april 1 so we have aher year to go. i think that is regrettable. but. etheless. we are locked into that. but. thank goodness. they are going to end next march.
. the press has been full of articles in the last several weeks focusing on the foreign trade concerns of one of the nations most import industries. the auto industry. . there have been articles about the effects of japans selfimposed auto quotas. about the ecoic recovery of the u.s. industry. its emous profits and its extraordinary levels of executive pay and bonuses. there have been articles about the japanese industrys soveiled indications that it just might be nice to us and continue the quotas after they expire in march 1985. and about the large investments being made here by japanese auto companies. and there is much editorial comment. too. about what surely seems to be one of the hottest topics in the ecoic news. wonder. the vitality of the auto industry is important because its employment. its gross sales. its impact on our way of life is so important. consumers care deeply about the cost. quality. safety. and environmental soundness of their cars. and they care very much. well. the existing temporary quotas on japanese cars are hing compared to the domestic content bill being heard today in the senate commerce committee. that protectionist blockbusterperhaps the worst threat to world trade since the disastrous smoothawley tariff act of 1930passed the house last ember 11 by a vote of 219 to 199. and is said to have about 25 supporters in the senate. it is a threat to those millions of american consumers who are buying high quality. reliable. fuelefficient japanese cars. it is a threat to the ecoy at large. and a threat to the competitive vitality of our own domestic auto industry. fortunately. a large number of private organizations. ecoists. and newspaper editoralists have grasped the nature of this threat to our collective wellbeing and responded. one hundred organizations and companies representing millions of american consumers. workers. farmers. manufacturers. and other business people across this country have joined in opposition to s. 707. and 100 ecoists. including 3 el laureates. have jicned to urge that we reject s. 707. at least 50 publications have editorially opposed domestic content legislation. ranging from .the arizona republic to the wall street journal. i ask unanimous consent that listings of those organizations and individuals be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. is the current rcra law is riddled with loopholes. and those were enacted at the time and undoubtedly recognized at the time when the legislation was passed. because when we first work on legislation. we can achieve perfection. and what this legislation we have before us today. s. 757. is all about is trying to plug those loopholes and that is why we believe it is so important. we have identified a number of gaps in the regulatory program and have attempted to fill them under this legislation. even with this bill. there will be some gaps still existing. the scope of the problem is such that we can reasonably be expected to address it comprehensively with legislation. we have got to continue to rely to a large extent on federal and state common law and statestatutory law to fill the gaps. nevertheless. we must do as much as we can to assure the public that hazardous wastes are being handled in a safe manner and this bill is important to that. . there are several key provislons that will come up. i am  going to dwell on those in detail. but i will just mention some of them. the smallquantity generator. which i talked about before. we had long discussions on what to reduce that to. whether we should reduce it from the current 1.000 kilograms amount down to de minimis. we finally settled on 100 kilograms a month. therd are 9 months allowed before we get into enactment of the requirement for the smallquantity generators of less than 1.000 kilograms a month. namely the 2.200 pounds. they have 9 months to get adjusted to the new definition of smallquantity generator which. as i say. is 100 kilograms a month. we have limitations on the land disposal which we will be discussing further. if anybody would like to raise questions in connection with those. that is a very important part. we have minimum techogical requirements in permit life. we have continuing releases on permitted facilities. and we have a provision to listing and delisting. we modify that from the existing law. then also we touch on the burning and blending matter which i mention in my statement. we have problem matters dealing with mandatory inspections in federal facilities. federal enforcement. and the export of hazardous waste. we have a provision dealing with immint hazard citizens jults. those are the principal provisions of this act. working with us on the committee and a very valuable member was the ranking member. the junior senator from maine [senator mitchell] and he did an excellent job. does the senator have an opening statement.
. title iv of h.r. 3398 contains authority for the negotiation of a free trade area with israel. this authority is timely and quite appropriate for united statesisrael trade. right  almost 90 percent of goods from israel enter the united states duty free either because of zeroduty rates or because of the generalized system of preferences. so israel already enjoys substantial duty free access for its exports into our market. despite the healthy trade surplus the united states enjoys with israel. 40 percent of our exports to israel are subject to tariffs of 10 percent or more. so a mutual elimination of duties would be a great benefit to u.s. exporters. i support this grant of authority to negotiate a free trade area. israel lacks access to its natural markets in the middle east. a free trade area with the united states. israels single largest trading partner. would help assure a market for israeli exports. my concern about the free trade area had to do with its impact on the jewelry industry in rhode island. but i am assured that the condition of the jewelry industry. and perhaps others identified by the itc as sensitive. will be taken into careful consideration during these negotiations. the u.s. trade representative has the flexibility to shield very sensitive items from severe market disruption. those who have concerns about specific industries need  therefore resort to specific exemptionsprotectionin the legislation in order to support it. the international trade commission completed its study of the trade impact of the free trade area in may and concluded that a number of products are very sensitive and would be subject to serious market disruption if immediately included in the free trade area with israel. i believe gold chain was one such item included in the itcs findings. with this kledge. the administration can consider various alternatives for phasing in duty free treatment for those sensitive products. i would venture to say that the government of israel has some sensitive items also which it will want to phase in over the long term. my support of this negotiating authority is therefore unconditional. i believe in free trade and i support the negotiation of a free trade agreement with israel. but as in any such trade negotiation. there are products reserved for special consideration by both parties. i trust that the u.s. trade representative in the course of these negotiations will continue to give full recognition to the itcs findings on gold chain.
. recognizing the validity of this concern. we suggested to senate conferees on the trade bill that the provision be modified to require that the international trade commission make the required study. the idea had received significant support from the two ecoists whom mr. may interviewed: j. michael finger. ecoist at the world bank. and robert baldwin. ecoist at the university of wisconsin. both well recognized experts in international trade. each suggested that the law be changed to require that the international trade commission spell out both the costs and benefits to the entire ecoy of proposals to restrict imports. unfortunately. the conferees did  agree with their judgment. i ask to have printed in the record the article i referred to.
. our distinguished colleague. the senator from missouri. senator danforth. today spoke before the national press club on the timely topic of the u.s. trade policy. i k that every member of the senate is aware of senator danforths energetic work as chairman of the international trade subcommittee of the finance committee. both on the committee and on the trade subcommittee. i have worked closely with senator danforth on any number of issues affecting international trade. i commend senator danforths remarks to my colleagues as an insightful discussion of u.s. trade policy. and i ask unanimous consent that the text of his address be included in the record.
. i would like to take this opportunity to clarify with the senator from south carolina a point which makes it clear that the textile amemdment which we have just adopted in way applies to imported toys. it is my understanding that goods otherwise classifiable under subpart e. part 5. schedule 7 entering under schedule 8 or the appendix to the tariff schedules of the united states would  be covered by the provisions of this bill.
then. this goes way beyond that. it says that it eliminates the quota of any country that is taking sugar from cuba. and this clearly has hing to do with drugs. we are getting into an entirely new area that i think deserves far more study than we have given it here tonight. so i hope that this amendment will  be accepted. the next amendment that would come along. i suppose. would deal with the import of shoes from the caribbean nations. those countries that have been providing shoes and possibly purchasing some shoes from cuba would  be able to export into the united states. there are all kinds of ramifications to this. . i think it is an unfortunate amendment to come up at half past 8 on saturday night in connection with a drug bill.
. we must act to create an international framework to deal with trade in services problems while we still have a trade surplus in that area instead of waiting until we have a deficit. we should take steps  to insure that the rapidly expanding world trade in services remains free and open. i believe that the proposal contained in this bill will serve as an important tool for achieving this goal. the trade and investment act. incorporating the provision of trade in services. is a constructive tool that reflects the nature of our export trade and will serve to further our trade interests and the interests of liberal trade overall. i urge my colleagues to support this bill.
. i would like to congratulate the government of japan for taking a major step forward in enchancing united statesjapanese trade relations. the japanese diet has todky approved legislation allowing selfcertification for 16 broad categories of import products. . rather than subjecting each import item to costly and time consuming dockside examination. japan will  accept self certification by manufacturers. this legislation is expected to benefit 60 percent of u.s.-manufactured exports to japan. the united states already allows selfcertification of products imported into this country. this action removes a serious impediment to the sale of american exports to japan. it represents an important break through for freer world trade and demonstrates to those who seek a protectionist response to trade barriers that steady negotiations do work. producing genuine reforms rather than retaliation. by revamping their certification standards. the japanese have demonstrated a spirit of cooperation and a commitment to greater foreign access to their markets. let me commend particularly the nakasone government for recognizing the need for such reform and its leadership in bringing it about. i would also commend ambassador brock for his very dedicated and skillful work in bringing about the resolution of a matter of longstanding u.s. concern. there is still more to be done on standards. implementing regulations will have to be developed. and automobile imports must still be addressed. but the steps taken today go a long way toward resolving an important trade problem. this resolution can only be of benefit to the united states. japan. and world trade.o
. i can divine any logical reason for this situation. indeed. i find it extremely illogical and counterproductive to the trade and foreign relations goals of u.s. tariff programs such as the gsp and cbi. the present tariff schedule was established before the enactment of tariff preference programs. there is legislative history on this matter. and i can only conclude that the imposition of a tariff on reentry of products originat.ing from gsp or cbi nations was never anticipated or intended. i urge my colleagues support op this bill. end i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. while import restrictions may provide the protected industry a "free ride." protectionism is  without heavy cost. it comes at the expense of  only our trading partners. but also our trade relations and credibility as a free trading nation. more concretely. it comes at the real expense of the american consumer. we have a good many legitimate concerns about japanese trade policies and practices. but their auto exports are  among them. these exports represent fair and salutary competition. they have provided the american consumer with a choice and have shaken our own industry from its torpor. resulting in a better american car as well. let us  dissipate our energies and our trading partners good will over the narrow interests of a healthy industry. i urge the administration to resist the pressure for renewed auto import protection. and i pledge to fight such proposals in congress.
i want to say to the majority leader that sad though it is. the fourth year of the import quotas just started on april 1 so we have aher year to go. i think that is regrettable. but. etheless. we are locked into that. but. thank goodness. they are going to end next march.
. the press has been full of articles in the last several weeks focusing on the foreign trade concerns of one of the nations most import industries. the auto industry. . there have been articles about the effects of japans selfimposed auto quotas. about the ecoic recovery of the u.s. industry. its emous profits and its extraordinary levels of executive pay and bonuses. there have been articles about the japanese industrys soveiled indications that it just might be nice to us and continue the quotas after they expire in march 1985. and about the large investments being made here by japanese auto companies. and there is much editorial comment. too. about what surely seems to be one of the hottest topics in the ecoic news. wonder. the vitality of the auto industry is important because its employment. its gross sales. its impact on our way of life is so important. consumers care deeply about the cost. quality. safety. and environmental soundness of their cars. and they care very much. well. the existing temporary quotas on japanese cars are hing compared to the domestic content bill being heard today in the senate commerce committee. that protectionist blockbusterperhaps the worst threat to world trade since the disastrous smoothawley tariff act of 1930passed the house last ember 11 by a vote of 219 to 199. and is said to have about 25 supporters in the senate. it is a threat to those millions of american consumers who are buying high quality. reliable. fuelefficient japanese cars. it is a threat to the ecoy at large. and a threat to the competitive vitality of our own domestic auto industry. fortunately. a large number of private organizations. ecoists. and newspaper editoralists have grasped the nature of this threat to our collective wellbeing and responded. one hundred organizations and companies representing millions of american consumers. workers. farmers. manufacturers. and other business people across this country have joined in opposition to s. 707. and 100 ecoists. including 3 el laureates. have jicned to urge that we reject s. 707. at least 50 publications have editorially opposed domestic content legislation. ranging from .the arizona republic to the wall street journal. i ask unanimous consent that listings of those organizations and individuals be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. is the current rcra law is riddled with loopholes. and those were enacted at the time and undoubtedly recognized at the time when the legislation was passed. because when we first work on legislation. we can achieve perfection. and what this legislation we have before us today. s. 757. is all about is trying to plug those loopholes and that is why we believe it is so important. we have identified a number of gaps in the regulatory program and have attempted to fill them under this legislation. even with this bill. there will be some gaps still existing. the scope of the problem is such that we can reasonably be expected to address it comprehensively with legislation. we have got to continue to rely to a large extent on federal and state common law and statestatutory law to fill the gaps. nevertheless. we must do as much as we can to assure the public that hazardous wastes are being handled in a safe manner and this bill is important to that. . there are several key provislons that will come up. i am  going to dwell on those in detail. but i will just mention some of them. the smallquantity generator. which i talked about before. we had long discussions on what to reduce that to. whether we should reduce it from the current 1.000 kilograms amount down to de minimis. we finally settled on 100 kilograms a month. therd are 9 months allowed before we get into enactment of the requirement for the smallquantity generators of less than 1.000 kilograms a month. namely the 2.200 pounds. they have 9 months to get adjusted to the new definition of smallquantity generator which. as i say. is 100 kilograms a month. we have limitations on the land disposal which we will be discussing further. if anybody would like to raise questions in connection with those. that is a very important part. we have minimum techogical requirements in permit life. we have continuing releases on permitted facilities. and we have a provision to listing and delisting. we modify that from the existing law. then also we touch on the burning and blending matter which i mention in my statement. we have problem matters dealing with mandatory inspections in federal facilities. federal enforcement. and the export of hazardous waste. we have a provision dealing with immint hazard citizens jults. those are the principal provisions of this act. working with us on the committee and a very valuable member was the ranking member. the junior senator from maine [senator mitchell] and he did an excellent job. does the senator have an opening statement.
. title iv of h.r. 3398 contains authority for the negotiation of a free trade area with israel. this authority is timely and quite appropriate for united statesisrael trade. right  almost 90 percent of goods from israel enter the united states duty free either because of zeroduty rates or because of the generalized system of preferences. so israel already enjoys substantial duty free access for its exports into our market. despite the healthy trade surplus the united states enjoys with israel. 40 percent of our exports to israel are subject to tariffs of 10 percent or more. so a mutual elimination of duties would be a great benefit to u.s. exporters. i support this grant of authority to negotiate a free trade area. israel lacks access to its natural markets in the middle east. a free trade area with the united states. israels single largest trading partner. would help assure a market for israeli exports. my concern about the free trade area had to do with its impact on the jewelry industry in rhode island. but i am assured that the condition of the jewelry industry. and perhaps others identified by the itc as sensitive. will be taken into careful consideration during these negotiations. the u.s. trade representative has the flexibility to shield very sensitive items from severe market disruption. those who have concerns about specific industries need  therefore resort to specific exemptionsprotectionin the legislation in order to support it. the international trade commission completed its study of the trade impact of the free trade area in may and concluded that a number of products are very sensitive and would be subject to serious market disruption if immediately included in the free trade area with israel. i believe gold chain was one such item included in the itcs findings. with this kledge. the administration can consider various alternatives for phasing in duty free treatment for those sensitive products. i would venture to say that the government of israel has some sensitive items also which it will want to phase in over the long term. my support of this negotiating authority is therefore unconditional. i believe in free trade and i support the negotiation of a free trade agreement with israel. but as in any such trade negotiation. there are products reserved for special consideration by both parties. i trust that the u.s. trade representative in the course of these negotiations will continue to give full recognition to the itcs findings on gold chain.
. recognizing the validity of this concern. we suggested to senate conferees on the trade bill that the provision be modified to require that the international trade commission make the required study. the idea had received significant support from the two ecoists whom mr. may interviewed: j. michael finger. ecoist at the world bank. and robert baldwin. ecoist at the university of wisconsin. both well recognized experts in international trade. each suggested that the law be changed to require that the international trade commission spell out both the costs and benefits to the entire ecoy of proposals to restrict imports. unfortunately. the conferees did  agree with their judgment. i ask to have printed in the record the article i referred to.
. our distinguished colleague. the senator from missouri. senator danforth. today spoke before the national press club on the timely topic of the u.s. trade policy. i k that every member of the senate is aware of senator danforths energetic work as chairman of the international trade subcommittee of the finance committee. both on the committee and on the trade subcommittee. i have worked closely with senator danforth on any number of issues affecting international trade. i commend senator danforths remarks to my colleagues as an insightful discussion of u.s. trade policy. and i ask unanimous consent that the text of his address be included in the record.
. i would like to take this opportunity to clarify with the senator from south carolina a point which makes it clear that the textile amemdment which we have just adopted in way applies to imported toys. it is my understanding that goods otherwise classifiable under subpart e. part 5. schedule 7 entering under schedule 8 or the appendix to the tariff schedules of the united states would  be covered by the provisions of this bill.
then. this goes way beyond that. it says that it eliminates the quota of any country that is taking sugar from cuba. and this clearly has hing to do with drugs. we are getting into an entirely new area that i think deserves far more study than we have given it here tonight. so i hope that this amendment will  be accepted. the next amendment that would come along. i suppose. would deal with the import of shoes from the caribbean nations. those countries that have been providing shoes and possibly purchasing some shoes from cuba would  be able to export into the united states. there are all kinds of ramifications to this. . i think it is an unfortunate amendment to come up at half past 8 on saturday night in connection with a drug bill.
 to take na- leahy as to the inclusion of calendar tional ecoic interests into consid-  219. robert f. kelly. of pennsyleration when he is deciding to grant vanla. and. was informed that it had import relief. that is a long sentence. been cleared on the democratic side of but part of this bill deals with what to the aisle for confirmation this evening.
if i might continue there will be adequate time to respond. . congress has made its intent clear: the taxpayer should  be subsidizing tobacco. this provisionnamely the provision that was inserted in the agriculture part of this trade billif it were to remain there would be a sharp departure from that stated intent. namely. the intent that the taxpayer should  be subsidizing tobacco. if we leave this in. it would start us down the costly and illadvised path of subsidizing the export of tobacco. a substance that has clearly proven to be hazardous to health. . is this really something that we want to embark upon with consideration and debate. those who were here from the agriculture committee can correct me if i am wrong. it is my understanding that there was debate on this in the committee. that it was  totally understood. and that it was adopted quickly. it would start us down the costly and illadvised path of subsidizing the export of tobaccoa substance that has been proven hazardous to the health. is this really something we want to embark onwith consideration and debate. i certainly hope . and i call on my colleagues for their support. the trade bills tobacco export provisions move us in exactly the wrong diection. they are illconceived. hastilyconsidered. and should be removed from the bill. i want to thank the chair.
yes. as i look at this. this particular section could stand alone as a separate amendment in that it is  dependent on what has taken place previously or has been described previously in the amendment. i am talking about the references to distorting practices or import barriers and other matters that are here. in other words. it is freestanding. if you would.
so the committee says: we have decided that uruguay has a consistent pattern of import barriers. we pluck it from the air. we are sitting around there. 20 stouthearted. loyal citizens. and we determine that uruguay. based on some methodology which certainly is  something we are familiar with and we do  have the capacity. i would  think. at least to my kledgewe do  have the capacity to determine whether uruguay has or has  a consistent pattern of import barriers. but we say so. but we say so. so we get over that hurdle. we say. "that country has a consistent pattern of import barriers." once we do that. we can then. by majority vote. initiate an investigation with respect to any barrier. so this is a very. very sweeping power. if i understand it correctly.
the senator is quite correct. that earlier in the measure there is a description of what goes into determination of a consistent pattern of import barriers. they are listed in the red book there. there is a series of hurdles to step through. but that is for the ustr. that is  for the committee. in this section i am dealing with on page 8. it just says a country that maintains a consistent pattern of import barriers. it does  say "as described" in previous subsection so and so. the committees are  constrained by that prior definition. maybe that is the intent of the senator. but it certainly does  say so. that is my first problem. my second problem is one that we are all too familiar with. that is what we might call collegial deference. a senator comes into the finance committee and says. "i am being hounded by my constituents at home objecting to the import of ceramic flower pots and something has to be. done about this." the answer from the committee is. "do  worry. we will take care of you. we will stall them off. let us have an investigation." i think everybody on the floor of this senate ks if there is something that senator ever objects to. and we have seen it so often in the finance committee. is when they refer to soandso as just a study. just a study. thank goodness. ok. have we done that 50 times in the past 5 years or have we done it 100 times. i do  k. but there is  a study that i have ever seen turned down. if there was. that would really be great for the rules around here. to turn down somebodys request for a study. so what do we say to this upset colleague of ours who comes in and says. "i have these people pestering me at home. give me some kind of solace." the answer from the committee is. "well. let us see. i think we can squeeze you in under this and what we will do is we will have an investigation." i can imagine anybody objecting to that. all we are doing is saying to the ustr and his group. "this is a petition to initiate a study. and it will be accepted." am i on the wrong track.
could i ask the senator this question: is it his belief. as one of the chief authors of this measureand i previously said i want to give the senator from missouri credit for this. i think he is generous in saying it is a leadership amendment but i think it is a danforth amendmentor is it the senators intention. that the definition of how one goes about determining whether a country maintains a consistent pattern of import barriers is meant to encompass the proceedings that take place on page 3.
. the speeches that have just been heard deal with the overall piece of legislation. i would like to concentrate. if i may. for a couple of minutes on my amendment. which of course is quite separate from the overall bill. my amendment would separate out the shoe provisions totally. it would eliminate all the quotas imposed on shoes. there is difference between the shoe provisions and the textile provisions. the shoe provisions are far harsher. the shoe provisions provide that the quotas will be rolled back to the 1986 import level. with growth whatsoever provided. i would like everyone here who is listening and those throughout america to think: if you or your children wear adidas or nike or reeboksany of those shoes. you name itthey are all covered by these import restrictions. the price of these shoes will go up when there is a limitation on the imports provided and the american domestic shoe producers do  produce that type of shoe or that costlevel shoe. the american manufacturers are in the higher market. they are  going to market any of these in america because they can afford to. and the price of american consumers will rise dramatically. the distinguished senators from maine have spoken. and despite the woes that are portrayed for maine that are existing under the current flood of imports of shoes. as they describe it. the unemployment level in maine. which is 4.7 percent. is less than the national average. i hope everyone will support this amendment.
. i was . aware that bill frenzel had annced he was going to retire. i am very. very sorry to hear that. he has been a tower of strength. judiciousness. thoughtfulness. and common sense in the house of representatives. i have had the privilege of dealing with bill frenzel rather frequently. particularly in connection with ways and means matters. where he has been on the conference committees. several times. he is going to be very. very difficult to replace. there are certain representatives over there- who have been major players in ways and means matters. i can remember when barber conable was of such- importance on the ways and means committee. bill april 2.o1990 co pfjenzel has been a very. very strong voice. particularly for free trade matters. i think he and sam giabows. of florida have been probably the two strongest voices for free and open trade. to have bill leave is sad. i must say. obviously. he has his own reasons. he served for a long time in public life. i suppose anybody can say egh is egh at some point. but to have bill frenzel leave is regrettable. i wish to him and his family all the very. very best in their coming retirement. the good side is he will be around for the remainder of this year.
. i would point out. in connection with the canadian freetrade agreement. that * you do  go to the dispute settlement mechanism by passing a law that says you can import electricity from canada from any plants that do  meet the standards that we have. that is  the way you go to the disputes settlement. regardless of what the disputes settlement comes up with. it is over and done with when we pass a law here. that is what this bill does. maybe the distinguished senator who is proposing the amendment can show me the disputes settlements language in here.
. this amendment would extend for 2 additional years the current duty suspensions on the following textile machines: narrow fabric weaving machines. wool carding and spinning machinery. and decorative lacebraiding machines. the machines covered by this amendment are used in the production of fabrics which have a wide variety of end uses in apparel. medical. industrial. and home furnishing applications. this equipment is  available from domestic manufacturers and must be purchased from foreign suppliers. located primarily in europe. these three types of textile machines currently enter the united states dutyfree under previously enacted duty suspension legislation. however. these suspensions are scheduled to expire on december 31. 1990. these machines are a vital component of our textile manufacturers efforts to modernize. increase productivity. and continue as players in an extremely competitive international textile and apparel market. extension of these current duty suspensions will provide american textile and apparel companies with the opportunity to continue replacing outdated equipment with new high techogy machines in a costeffective manner. access to new equipment without the penalty of an unnecessary tariff will help to insure that american manufacturers will be more competitive at home and abroad. enactment of this amendment will benefit all american consumers by providing them continued access to higher quality american made textile and apparel. at a lower cost. i hope that the managers of this bill will be able to accept this controversial extension of these duty suspensions.
. certainly we do  this evening. what we are here for is just to decide a procedural matter. the distinguished senator from south carolina has said why do we need fasttrack authority when we deal with mexico. that is just one nation. he points out we have dealt with the test ban treaty. we have dealt with salt i: we have dealt with the inf treaty. and he said 1.500 treaties and agreements have gone through here without any fasttrack procedure. but he ks and we all k that when a trade agreement comes up. whether it is 100plus nations in the uruguay round. or whether it is with mexico. every single senator on this floor has an amendment he would like to make. i have plenty. our state is a textile state. our state is a state that manufactures jewelry. our state is a state that deals with wire products. i want those taken care of in any agreement that comes. whether it is the uruguay round. or the mexican freetrade agreement. and so do 435 members in the house of representatives. all of them have amendments. but that does  apply when the inf treaty comes before us. or the test ban treaty. let us look at some of the treaties we voted on just last week. and i think the distinguished senator from south carolina will agree they are  like any trade agreement. "the convention for the prevention of pollution from ships".  how many senators have any view on that one way or the other. "1988 protocols relating to the safety of life at sea and load line conventions". those treaties. sometimes we take three at a time and vote up and down on all of them. so to make the analogy that we have done 1.500 treaties through here since the beginning of the republic and we do  need any fasttrack procedure when we deal with the trade agreement just is  so. as the distinguished senator from montana pointed out. every individual special trade representative. be he democrat. be he republican has said that we need this type of procedure. indeed we do because all of us have amendments that we want to put on those agreements when they come back. i would like to move on to the question that jobs are going to flee to mexico. that was the pitch of the senator from michigan. it seems very odd to me that the senator from michigan. where the problems are brought about by the decline of the automobile industry and related industries. does  recognize or did  mention that the problems of that industry. which drives his state. come  from lowwage areas but from highwage areas. who are these companies that the senator is having trouble with in their
so the senator from iowa would have an exception to that for medicines and food. and the senator from florida said. do you  realie that united states farmers. or united states prescriptive drug manufacturers. drug manufacturers. can sell to cuba so why should the overseas subsidiaries be permitted to do this. i myself think we are getting into heavy weather here with these solo embargoes that we embarking on by the united states. i voted against the proposal of the senator from florida last week. as he said. he won overwhelmingly. he won 61 to 24. that was the sentiment of the senate. that. since we can sell it ourselves from here. anything. that our overseas subsidiaries should  be permitted to do the same. i do  agree with him. i think. as i mentioned before. this is very tricky business. saying that an overseas subsidiary. entirely owned subsidiary of a u.s. corporation. can do something overseas that is permitted in the country where it is domiciled. as the senator from iowa said. so i am  persuaded that we should extend the policy that i am  sure is right. that is this total embargo of everything from the united states to cuba. and that we should extent it to our overseas operations. so i am  in favori support the senator from iowa.
. i hope this amendment is rejected. i hope that we continue tostand for free trade here. that we do  violate gatt. that we have the imports that provide the competition. so that we will have the best for our consumers in price. quality. and service.
. first. i would like to point out. if i might. to the senator from alaska. when he referred to nafta proceeding on a super express. i point out that the negotiations on nafta started in september 1990. so this has been a 3year process. i do  think it is quite fair to label it a super express.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on armed services be authorized to meet on thursday. may 11. 1995. at 9:30 a.m. in open session to receive testimony on the national security implications of lowered export controls on dualuse techogies and u.s. defense capabilities.
. i respect the earnestness of the senator who offered it. and if he wants to come around sometime later in future years and say  we have worked it. out with municipal solid waste. with the import and export restrictions and the volumes and how much there can be in future years and socalled ratchets. that is fine. but  today. we have egh problems with this legislation without adding this element into it. so i very much hope that my colleagues will reject the amendment.
. i do  take this vote lightly.  do i believe that a military solution has to be the best course of action for bosnia. however. 3 years have passed since the u.n. arms embargo was imposed on the former yugoslavia. and the situation there is as bad as it ever has been. the unending bloodshed. suffering and horrors inflicted on the bosnian people call out for a change in course. i believe it is time for the united states to lift the arms embargo.
. yesterday i joined with senators roth. moynihan. baucus. and others on the finance committee in introducing a measure that will clarify and emphasize the true meaning of mostfavorednation [mfn] trading statusa miser if there ever was one. this is a change i long have advocated. and i hope the senate will move quickly to approve this legislation. since 1989. mfn has gained oriety as a special favor. a boon. that we grant to other nations. yet hing could be further from the truth. mfn dees a concept used by trading nations that has been around since the 12th century. that concept is simple: nation shall be granted trade treatment less favorable than that granted to the most favored nation. in other words. playing favorites. every nation is to be treated equitably. without discrimination. when it comes to the terms of trade. thus. the concept represents the lowest common deinator of trade statusthe basic treatment that all receive. over time. however. this concept came to be kn  as. say. "discriminatory treatment" status. or "least favored nation" status. but as "most favored nation" status. this unfortunate termiogy has fostered the mistaken view that mfn is a special treatment granted only to a privileged few. in fact. just the opposite is true: mfn. as the basic trading status between nations. is granted to virtually all nations with whom the united states trades. the exceptions can almost be counted on one hand: serbia. laos. afghanistan. vietnam. cuba. th korea. and cambodia. i might add that cambodia is about to come off that already meager list. if legislation  pending in congress is approved. so while the concept of mfn is sound. the term used to dee that concept is misleading and has resulted in a good deal of mischiefa fact that senators moynihan and i have lamented often during senate finance committee hearings. it is time that we called the mfn discrimination concept by a term that more accurately represents its meaning. therefore. i am joining with chairman roth. senator moynihan and all of my finance committee colleagues to amend u.s. law. where appropriate. to replace the term mfn with the term "ntr:" mal trade relations. from this point on. we will discuss legislation and hold debate on the discrimination concept using the term ntr in place of mfn. with the concept of mfn remain the same. yes. are we signaling a change in domestic policy. or modifying our international obligations in any way.  but we are making perfectly clear to everyone the true meaning and purpose of this centuriesold concept. and it is my hope that our legislation will result in a better understanding of international trade relations. both here in the congress and in the eyes of the public.
. if my colleagues would permit. i would like to add a few comments of my own on the subject of the burns senseofthesenate included in the managers amendment. as my colleagues may k. earlier this spring a world trade organization [wto] panel found that a 1993 regulation adopted by the environmental protection agency [epa] discriminated against imports. the regulation in question established baselines against which refiners must measure compliance with requirements under the clean air act for conventional and reformulated gasoline. in coming to its conclusions. the wto panel ed that the united states had  fully explored ways to overcome the administrative difficulties relating to imported gasoline. and that although the united states had considered the costs to domestic refiners of complying with the regulation. the same consideration was  given to the costs that would be incurred by foreign refiners. on june 19. the united states informed the wto that we would endeavor to meet our international obligations by complying with the panel decision. this case has received a good deal of attention. and provoked a good deal of comment. unfortunately. many of the assertions that have been made about this case misinterpret both its meaning and its effect. as chairman of the senate environment and public works committee. i regret such misinterpretations. and want to take a moment to set the record straight. first. let me stress that the april wto decision has hing to do with the clean air act itself.  does it undermine the act in any way. rather. the wto decision deals with the approach set by a regulation issued pursuant to the act. the clean air act did  force epa to discriminate against foreign refiners. epa had a range of options from which to choose and. unfortunately. they chose one that ran afoul of our international obligations. i want to emphasize that the panel decision did  invalidate or otherwise undermine the acts requirements or the concept of using baselines. what the decision did do is say that the law must be implemented in a fair and discriminatory manner. that concept is one of the most basicand most importantvelements of our global trading system. and i would point out that it need  conflict with strong environmental protection. the wto ruling does  affect the ability of the united states to enforce the clean air act. the.wto itself explicitly recognizes the right of member nations to take steps to protect human health and exhaustible natural resources. neither the clean air act  its objectives were ever at issue in this case. finally. the panel decision does  mandate whether. or how. the united states should come into compliance with the wto ruling. such matters are left to the member nation to decide for itself. in this case. the united states informed the wto that we will take steps to complya decision i believe was the right one. indeed. i would urge epa in the strongest terms possible to act without delay. so that we may come into compliance as quickly as possible. so there should be confusion about this case or its outcome. the wto examined a regulation promulgated under the clean air act and found that its separate requirements for foreign refiners were discriminatory. that is all there is to it. fix the discrimination. and the problems cease. meanwhile. the clean air act and our other environmental laws remain in effect. as always. . with regard to the sense of the senate. which attempts to describe the current situation and hold the epa to certain commitments regarding the upcoming review process. since it does  constitute an amendment to the clean air act and is  binding. i do  intend to raise an objection. however. let me say this: there is question that complying with the wto decision is in the best interests of the united states.  only for the reasons outlined just  by my colleague. the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. but for our own interests in environmental protection. frankly. there are some in the domestic refining industry who have benefited from the current unequal state of affairs. and .who would prefer to see the united states avoid coming into compliance in this case. they may attempt to influence the review process to ensure that at the end of the day. they retain their current advantage. an. outcome along those lines would be an act of cynicism that would do us serious damage in our efforts to maintain a fair international trading system. such an outcome will  do. we have an obligation to make a good faith effort to come into compliance with the wto decision as soon as possible. adopting an approach that purports to solve the problem. but that merely prolongs the current inequity. is  acceptable. an acceptable solution is.one in which unfair distinction is drawn between domestic and foreign gasoline. in which domestic and foreign refiners alike meet the levels currently allowed by the clean air act. and in which the united states may ensure enforcement for both domestic and foreign industry using approaches that have proven effective in the past. that truly would be a level playing field. for my colleagues information. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a copy of a letter on this issue that was sent to me by the environmental defense fund. the national wildlife federation. the sierra club. and the world wildlife fund. i appreciate the managers of the bill allowing me the opportunity to make comments about this matter
i thank the senator. and i will be brief. very simply. my proposal would create a 1year pilot program aimed at linking sbdcs with export assistance centers. right . some 35 colleges and univce ities across the country isave both an sbdc and an export a.nsistnce center on their campus. bryant college in rhode island is one such facility. the folks up there have done a super job on behalf of our states small businesses. but in instance that i am aware of are two of these important facilities connected to each other. i think a lot of good could come out of taking that step. therefore. my proposal would permit eligible sbdcs to do two things: one. hire export professionals to work onsite. and two. make the techogical adjustments necessary to establish a computer link with an export assistance center.
most definitely. one of the key services offered by the export assistance centers is access to a system called the international trade data network. the itdn works as follows. a small businessperson will come into an export assistance center. anxious to learn how to export a particular product. and by logging on to this system. the individual can find out what countries are interested in that product with a just few simple keystrokes. as i understand it. a small businessperson can even get information about potential contracts. unfortunately. under the contract arrangement. it is impossible to connect to that computer network at the sbdc. instead. the individual must find the closest export assistance center. and develop a relationship with an entirely different staff. in order to learn what international trade opportunities might be available. the itdn has proven to be a very successful tool for opening foreign trade markets. in my view. therefore. small businesses in rhode island and states across the country stand to benefit greatly from better access to it. . my preference would have been to offer this proposal as an amendment to the sba authorization bill. i understand. however. that the chairman and the members of the committee would like more time to mull over the idea before signing on to it. in that case. i wonder if the chairman would be willing to consider including the sbdc proposal in next years bill.
sure. let me say one thing. if i might. . i am  in my. i guess. 20th year here. and i have been on the side of the distinguished senior senator from west virginia. i remember lifting the turkish arms embargo about the first year i came here. and then i have been on the other side. against him. as a general rule. i would far prefer to be on his side than against him. i find it is a much more comfortable position. perhaps a safer position in many ways. so i am very. very conscious that when i duel with the distinguished senior senator from west virginia. i have to be on the alert. i will buckle on my breastplate of righteousness. i shall seize my cap of salvation. i shall grab my sword of the spirit and prepare for combat.
. today i am introducing 13 bills to suspend the duty on the importation of certain products that are used by manufacturers in my home state of rhode island. the products in question are organic replacements for colorants that use heavy metals--such as lead. molybdenum. chrome. and cadmiumin the plastics and coatings industries. heavy metal colorants traditionally have been -used in the coloration of plastics and coatings. especially where the applications are subjected to high heat. or where high weatherfastness or lightfastness are required. until recently. finding substitutes for these heavy metalbased products was difficult. however. thanks to new formulations. a number of organic products have proved themselves to be satisfactory substitutes. reducing our reliance on heavy metal colorants makes sense environmentally. however. e of the organic substitutes in question are produced in the united states. thus. our producers have choice but to import the substitutes and pay the requisite import taxes. which range from 6.6 to 14.6 percent. the total price tag associated with these duties. while relatively small in the context of our federal budget. translates into a considerable business cost to the importing manufacturers. the added cost hurts their ability to compete. and thus their ability to maintain their workforce. yet. given that there is domestic industry producing these substitutes. the duties serve little purpose. the package of bills i am introducing today would remedy this situation by suspending the duty on these thirteen products. as i say. e of these organic substitutes are produced in the united states. and therefore lifting the .current duties will  result in harm to any domestic industry. rather. suspending the duties will allow our domestic manufacturers to reduce costs. thus maintaining u.s. competitiveness and safeguarding rhode island jobs. this is a critical point. i feel strongly that we in rhode island should do all we can to keep the states ecoy going by creating jobs. encouraging business activity. and spurring new growth. these bills will help contribute to a productive manufacturing sect6r in rhode island. and aid our employers in keeping their costs down and their sales--and employmentrup. it is my hope that by introducing this package of legislation . there will be ample time for review and comment on each bill. and that as a result. should the senate take up comprehensive duty. suspension legislation next year. these provisions will be ready for inclusion. by mr. campbell:
madam president. i have seen those jams down there. i have seen them in california by tijuana. the trucks were all lined up. it is incredible. i saw a little bit of it in texas. but that was just a sampling of what later has occurred as the nafta agreement has come into full flower with the jamups on both sides of the border. trucks trying to come across. customs inspectors trying to do their job. it truly is tremendously congested. both senators from texas are absolutely right in addressing this problem.
sure. let me say one thing. if i might. . i am  in my. i guess. 20th year here. and i have been on the side of the distinguished senior senator from west virginia. i remember lifting the turkish arms embargo about the first year i came here. and then i have been on the other side. against him. as a general rule. i would far prefer to be on his side than against him. i find it is a much more comfortable position. perhaps a safer position in many ways. so i am very. very conscious that when i duel with the distinguished senior senator from west virginia. i have to be on the alert. i will buckle on my breastplate of righteousness. i shall seize my cap of salvation. i shall grab my sword of the spirit and prepare for combat.
. today i am introducing 13 bills to suspend the duty on the importation of certain products that are used by manufacturers in my home state of rhode island. the products in question are organic replacements for colorants that use heavy metals--such as lead. molybdenum. chrome. and cadmiumin the plastics and coatings industries. heavy metal colorants traditionally have been -used in the coloration of plastics and coatings. especially where the applications are subjected to high heat. or where high weatherfastness or lightfastness are required. until recently. finding substitutes for these heavy metalbased products was difficult. however. thanks to new formulations. a number of organic products have proved themselves to be satisfactory substitutes. reducing our reliance on heavy metal colorants makes sense environmentally. however. e of the organic substitutes in question are produced in the united states. thus. our producers have choice but to import the substitutes and pay the requisite import taxes. which range from 6.6 to 14.6 percent. the total price tag associated with these duties. while relatively small in the context of our federal budget. translates into a considerable business cost to the importing manufacturers. the added cost hurts their ability to compete. and thus their ability to maintain their workforce. yet. given that there is domestic industry producing these substitutes. the duties serve little purpose. the package of bills i am introducing today would remedy this situation by suspending the duty on these thirteen products. as i say. e of these organic substitutes are produced in the united states. and therefore lifting the .current duties will  result in harm to any domestic industry. rather. suspending the duties will allow our domestic manufacturers to reduce costs. thus maintaining u.s. competitiveness and safeguarding rhode island jobs. this is a critical point. i feel strongly that we in rhode island should do all we can to keep the states ecoy going by creating jobs. encouraging business activity. and spurring new growth. these bills will help contribute to a productive manufacturing sect6r in rhode island. and aid our employers in keeping their costs down and their sales--and employmentrup. it is my hope that by introducing this package of legislation . there will be ample time for review and comment on each bill. and that as a result. should the senate take up comprehensive duty. suspension legislation next year. these provisions will be ready for inclusion. by mr. campbell:
madam president. i have seen those jams down there. i have seen them in california by tijuana. the trucks were all lined up. it is incredible. i saw a little bit of it in texas. but that was just a sampling of what later has occurred as the nafta agreement has come into full flower with the jamups on both sides of the border. trucks trying to come across. customs inspectors trying to do their job. it truly is tremendously congested. both senators from texas are absolutely right in addressing this problem.
 to impose retaliatory export controls. i am introducing my modifying amendment to indicate that blackmail is  an acceptable policy for export controls by the united states. i thank my esteemed colleague from florida for accepting this modification to his amendment.
. congressman bell of california has introduced a bill which would impose an embargo against all nations involved in commercial whaling. this bill has garnered the support of well over 60 cosponsors. a similar bill has been sponsored in the senate by the distinguished chairman of the commerce committee. senator magnuson. congressman mccloskey also of california has introduced a bill in the house identical to the measure i am introducing today. these measures reflect a growing national awareness of the whales plight and a desire to take action before it is too late. my own state of connecticut showed their concern in 1975 by designating the sperm whale as its state animal. in the early days of modern whaling. the whale industry chose as their target the great blue whale. the largest animal to have ever lived on earth. for its size and ecoic benefits. once numbering over 200.000. the blue whale faces commercial extinction. as the blue whale dwindled in numbers. the whaling industry turned to other species such as the fin. sei. and minke whales. . these other species are nearly extinct. the sperm whale is presently the most heavily hunted by commercial whalers. the sperm whale has been overfished to such an extent that the average size of each whale killed has declined from 36 tons in 1968 to 21 tons in 1974. this indicates that the kill levels are much too high for the herds to thrive. it is  time for the united states to prevent overkilling of whales by unscrupulous foreign interests. i urge my colleagues to afford this important legislation expedited consideration in this congress. time is growing dangerously short for most of the whales. we must act . unless we do. the whale will be placed next to the diaur as a museum piece.  as the most majestic creature of the ocean.
i thank the distinguished senator from oregon. i especially thank him for his refusal to listen to or adhere to the blandishments of either the u.s. state department or the executive branch of government. which blandishments were intended to divert him and the senator from connecticut from pursuing the matter of embargo. man in the united states. indeed. i daresay. even the government of the united states. is more conversant with or kledgeable of matters in uganda over the years than the distinguished senator from oregon. his work with church groups. with those of the academic world. and with those who fled uganda made him the leading expert on the tragedy within that nation. so. . i am pleased to join senator hatfield in this effort today to finish the task begun on this floor on july 28. 1978. on that date. the senate. in an act of courage and principle. put the united states unequivocally on record before the world in opposition to ugandas madman. idi amin. the u.s. embargo of uganda was an important factor in the chain of events which finally drove amin from power. i think the united states. and especially senator hatfield can be justifiably proud of its role in amins political demise. the new ugandan government under dr. yusufu lule has demonstrated in its first days a profound commitment to the welfare and dignity of the ugandan people. the legacy of destruction. violence and ecoic disintegration left by the amin regime poses formidable obstacles for the new government. we have an important role to play in the rebuilding process. emergency u.s. aid and the resumption of trade is necessary to help this battered nation back to its feet and once again onto the path of being what churchill described as the "pearl of africa". when representatives of the new ugandan government met the first team of u.s. diplomats to visit uganda since the fall of amin. they were greeted with the statement "we k who our friends are". we earned that friendship by enacting an embargo when it was most needed. we earned that friendship by standing up for justice for a forgotten people. we earned it. as we can around the world. by believing in the principles which have made us great and backing them up with action.
be recognized for  to exceed 15 minutes. that if there is any time between the completion of that order and the hour of 9:30 a.m.. such time be utilized for routine morning business. that senators may speak therein up to 2 minutes each. and that in any event the senate at the hour of 9:30 a.m. resume consideration of the export control bill.
i think the senator is absolutely correct on that point. but the import of the amendment. its thrust. wvas well-.kn. in other words. the amending. the give and take between the distinguished senator from louisiana and the distinguished senator from th carolina so as to make it acceptable to the amendment of the senator from th carolina did very little in relation to the constitutional arguments presented by mr. hoffman and also the statements made in earlier testimony by mr. cutler.
. i would like to state my concerns about the probable adverse effects of section 844 of the bill on a competitive u.s. industry. including our constituent. uniroyal chemical co. section 844 would suspend for 3 years the import duty on ndi. a polyurethane elastomer chemical. the finance committee report correctly ed that this chemical does  compete directly with other basic socyanates manufactured in the united states. however. it does compete directly with the prepolymer intermediate chemical systems produced in the united states which are based upon other isocyanates. such as tdi and mdi.
i and my colleague are especially concerned that the duty would be suspended on an imported chemical. which competes directly with a u.s. substitute. immediately prior to a gatt tariff negotiating round. where the tariff could provide leverage to negotiate concessions on u.s. exports.
reserving the right to object. we have a matter before us that has been waiting for a year. apparentl9. in viewing the actions on the floor of the u.s. senate. the urgency of this still has  become a matter of great import among my colleagues. i am  prepared to go ahead snd see this matter withdrawn or set azide.
. the u.s. tariff on this class of machinery originally was 35 percent. when it is restored to 20 percent by my bill and that of other members interested in the problem. the u.s. duty will still be less by nearly onehalf of the statutory rate. the domestic industry made a vigorous effort last year to persuade the administration to correct this inequitable situation on papermaking machinery tariffs at a time when our government clearly had the right to do so under the open season procedures spelled out in article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. in common with the refusal of this and other administrations to consider favorably any measure of help for any domestic industry. this administration refused to ho the industrys request. it is common kledge that the socalled tariff adjustment provisions of the trade expansion act of 1962 are totally unworkable.  one of the 19 applicants for relief under that statutory provision has been granted a favorable finding by the tariff commission. because of the extreme stringency of the tests which the statute requires. it is also well kn that it was  the intention of the committee on ways and means of the house or the committee on finance of the senate.  of the members of either body. that domestic industries be shorn so completely of all avenues of relief from inequitable trade situations. nevertheless. that is where we are today. therefore. positive legislation by the congress on a casebycase basis is the only remedy until such time as a more comprehensive solution for all industries can be taken up in connection with any renewal or extension of the trade expansion act. accordingly. i ask the members of the committee on ways and means to grant priority of consideration to the bill which i have introduced today and which many other members of this body have introduced to correct the unfair tariff on papermaking machinery.
 has called on the us. tariff commission to hold hearings on may 15 to determine if new quotas are needed. if the commission recommends new quotas. and it is believed that it will. this will restrict dairy product imports. however. in the past. such action under section 22 has provided only temporary relief. . what the dairy farmers want is a permanent bill and they are united in support of the dairy import act of 1967.
. the import of this resolution is clearly that the firm hand of our government is- offered to returning vietnam veterans in assistance and gratitude. the policy expressed in it reaffirms the traditional feeling which congress holds for its returning servicemen of all conflicts. and i suggest we can do less for those who served and sacrificed in vietnam.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the amendment offered by the senator from new york. and i fully support his efforts. in the long run. it is only through effective coordination of public and private investment. through development of resources and job opportunities. and direct participation in the world ecoy. that the new nations of the world will achieve a reasonable level of ecoic viability. american investors have much to ofer to these new nations. an investment of only a few thousand dollars may. in some cases. provide a country with a product it desperately needs to spur its own development. but american investors do  always k what the needs of these nations are. or where the opportunities exist. for several years. aid has performed a vital service to potential investors by providing "insurance" to cover some of the costs of surveying investment opportunities. the program does  directly finance these surveys: rather. the potential investor bears all of the initial cost of the survey. if he then decides to invest in the particular program under study. the entire expense is borne by the investing company. if however. the opportunity does  materialize or the investment proves to be unworkable or undesirable. aid will reimburse the businessman for up to 50 percent of the actual costs incurred. the record to date has been outstanding. for every $1 million disbursed by aid under the investment survey program. $80 millior has been invested or committed by private american businessmen. this is testimony to the care with which aid selects those projects which it will insure. and to the vision of the potential investors. in the course of my recent trip to africa. i was particularly impressed with the number of opportunities which existed for small companies to invest in the future of these nations. for the most part. such companies are  aware of this potential.  can they afford to undertake surveys in littlekn parts of the world without the assurance of some government support. but with official encouragement and insurance. these companies may begin to expand their horizons. and with their investments. countries which are  expending scarce capital to import hand tools or textiles may be able to produce their own goods. countries which are  importing food may find that they can grow the crops they need once fertilizers. tools. and techniques have been provided. countries which can  export their surplus fish or agricultural products may find that with the construction of a small processing plant. or a box or tin can factory. wide markets are open to them in neighboring countries. the opportunities are there. the need is there. and i believe that the united states should continue to play a constructive role in this effort of the new states to become more selfsufficient and to utilize their resources to the fullest. i hope that the amendment of the senator from new york. restoring the authorization for investment surveys. will be adopted.
s authority to control the exportation of strategic goods expires on june 30. 1969. i am. therefore. introducing a joint resolution which would extend the expiration date of the present export control act from june 30. 1969. to august 30. 1969. while the senate may be in a position to report out legislation on this important subject by june 30. i have been informed that it is doubtful whether the house could do so in the time remaining. i. therefore. introduce this resolution so that controls over strategic items do  lapse in the event that the congress does  take action on this matter before june 30. i am hopeful. however. that both houses of the congress will be able to report out a compromise bill and that it will  be necessary to pass this resolution. i am pleased to indicate that the senator from alabama . the senator from maine . and the senator from utah . join as cosponsors of this resolution. with their able leadership. i am confident that the committee on banking and currency will be able to take action on this proposal. should it prove necessary to do so.
. my good friend the able senator from new hampshire has written an incisive and illuminating article entitled "the secret government of oil." published in the boston globe of ember 2. the article chronicles a part of the fight which we in new england have waged against the pervasive power of the oil industry. the battle started many years ago with attempts to channel the benefits of imported oil to our sixstate region. it found partial success in the subsequent removal of trade restrictions on imports of residual oil. and has most recently found its greatest symbol in the project to establish a foreign trade zone and oil refinery at machiasport. maine. tom mcintyre has been in the thick of this battle throughout. and has done as much as anyone to change machiasport from a small. unkn town on the coast of maine to a symbol in the national fight to achieve lower consumer prices. the junior senator from new hampshire deserves our gratitude for his courageous efforts. i recommend his article as important reading for all. and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
 nixon follows other positive initiatives which have been taken in recent months to foster improved relations between this country and rumania. earlier this year the administration moved to delist some 200 items which had been previously subject to export control restrictions when destined for rumania. this move toward greater trade with rumania is in line with the passage. late last year. of the export administration act. that legislation signified an end to cold war trade policies and the beginning of a new era of .mutually beneficial trade with the countries of eastern europe. where such trade does  adversely affect the national security or foreign policy interests of the united states. i have been informed that the state department is also endeavoring to promote private lending to rumania and i commend the administration for such initiatives. we must demonstrate a zeal for selfimprovement and which foster an attitude of mutual understanding with the nations of the world. the time has also come to reexamine other policies governing trade with the rumanians. i am hopeful that most favored nation treatment will be accorded rumania shortly and that other inhibitions on mutually beneficial trade will be removed. i look forward to the day when rumania and the united states will enjoy healthy trade relations as well as expanded cultural programs designed to develop improved understanding between the peoples of the two countries. i hope that other governments will join in a common relief effort with the united states at this crucial time. finally. i salute the rumanian people for their efforts to restore mality to their country. i am confident that with the aid of concerned friends in the world community they will meet with success.
we are waiting for the presidents commission to make a further report and recommendations. of course. it did make an initial report and recommendations. but it is my understanding  that there is a very large oil company that has a proposal for a refinery. the exact location of which i do  k. its original site was machiasport or some place else in new england. but it is my understanding this large oil company has come forth with plans and very shortly it is hopeful of getting a decision on the free trade zone and the location of a refinery which might bring us some relief. but that will  help us in the heating season of 197071. it seems as if every year we are talking about the next year. even if the application were to be approved the relief would  be forthcoming. for several heating seasons. in our part of the country we are already only a few days away from the heating season. so it is hoped we could get some emergency relief. one massachusetts cityput out a contract for bidding. to heat the city buildings. there was only one bid. and that was only for 50 percent of its contract needs. so we have a serious problem up there. and i am afraid it is going to get worse this year. i am happy that the senator has raised this question. we are going to have to redouble our efforts.
. as the press of crisis upon crisis seems to push us toward a downward spiral of decay and cynicism. it is difficult for many to maintain the optimism necessary for worthwhile achievement. yet. through the haze of despair. quiet voices of reason and hope continue to penetrate and strike a responsive chord. such a voice was that of albert schweitzer. the great humanitarian whose memory has recently been hoed during the centennial week celebration of his birthday. albert schweitzers contribution to the world and his message of hope is  as widely kn in the united states as it should be. therefore. i was pleased to receive ification that washington university in st. louis. mo.. has recently held a centennial celebration of albert schweitzers 100th birthday. the purpose of the celebration was as follows: we do  want to put him on a pedestal. but we believe that todays mankind can ill afford to waste the moral capital of schweitzers humanitarianism... in the belief that "moral capital" will be of benefit to us all. i ask unanimous consent that several short documents provided by washington university be printed in the record. they provide an impressive capsule summary of the primary import of albert schweitzers messagea reverence for life.
i would like to ask the senator from west virginia. if i understand the import of what he said. i believe he said senators can go back to their offices because there would  be a vote today on a motion to table his perfecting amendment. does that carry forth to any other vote. say a vote on the helms amendment or a vote on the scott amendment or a vote on any other amendment on this bill today.
. individuals from every part of the country have written to me detailing subtle costs of fair trade that are  so easily identified. for example. manufacturers whose products are  and never were legally fair traded. act as if they were. indeed. the merchandise arrives with the manufacturers price tags already affixed. the price list is headed. "fair trade price." retailers are told which items may be reduced for sale at the end of the season and how much the reduction may be. what we have then is a frame of mind in the marketplace that subtly labels price reductions as improper. if  illegal. we have seen developed an attitude and a practice that suggest price cutting must be avoided at all coststhat somehow reducing the price of product reduces its quality. to repeal fair trade will destroy this illusion. i believe. just as our forefathers believed. that the only means to insure the american consumer a fair deal is to insure that competition.  conspiracy. dominates the retail market. competition forces retailers. wholesalers. and manufacturers to provide the consumer the most for his or her money. we can on the one hand celebrate the beauties of free competition and then squelch it at the moment it benefits consumers. it is for these reasons that i support the repeal of the socalled fair trade laws. and i urge my colleagues to join me in this effort.
. i shall vote for passage of s. 69. the amendments to the export administration act. which contains the antiboycott provisions. in its present form. the bill represents a compromise. and i recognize this compromise is considered necessary in order to achieve a consensus on our national antiboycott policy. i had hoped that a consensus could have been reached on stronger antiboycott provisions than are contained in the present bill. yet. if sound regulations are promulgated. i believe that this measure could serve as an effective deterrent to secondary and tertiary boycotts. and we must monitor the regulations promulgated by the commerce department to assure that they carry out the objectives of the bill. if the antiboycott provisions are vigorously enforced. then we will have today taken a major step toward protecting the freedom of american citizens freely to do business among themselves and with other nations. and it is with this hope that i support the passage of s. 69.
 i commend the distinguished senator from kansas for proposing this amendment and for recog21216 co: nizing the budgetary restraints upon the committee. this is an excellent program. and rehabilitation services. specifically those where you bring in private indutsry to help the handicapped. is a program we are well aware of. i have discussed this with the distinguished chairman. senator magnuson. and he fully understands the import of the senators amendment. and is also appreciative of the senators willingness at this time to withdraw his amendment. i wish to point out that we did add an additional $1 million for this program. which brought it up to a total of $5 million and. as i understand it. the senator from kansas would increase this to $10 million. i think it is a project certainly worthy of that kind of funding level. and we hope we might be able to do that in a future appropriations bill. but i think the senator from kansas has made a strong case on the floor this morning. and we certainly will take that into consideration when we consider this rehabilitation services program for further appropriations.
. i shall oppose the effort today to lift the partial embargo on u.s. military assistance for turkey. my decision to do so is based on a belief that such an action. coming at this time. would  contribute to the search for stability on the southeastern flank of nato and a just resolution of outstanding differences between greece. cyprus. and turkey. and respective ethnic communities. there are easy decisions on this matter. u.s. interests demand that we do everything reasonable to maintain effective alliance relationships with both greece and turkey. those interests also demand that our actions be consonant with our values and ideals. the dilemma we face is that past actions of those with whom we desire close relationships have established certain. i hope. temporary incompatibilities between our alliancerelated interests and those directly tied to our national value system. in such a situation. we can hope to find a completely satisfactory solution. what we must seek is the course of action that will minimize the damage to our interests as much as possible. there is. i believe. one in this body who desires to alienate turkey from the united states. that has never been the purpose of the embargo. yet. there are many of us who have been convinced that the embargo was and is necessary to indicate to the involved parties that relations with the united states must be predicated upon certain principles and when such principles are violated. as was the case regarding turkish use of u.s. supplied equipment in the military action on cyprus. we. as a nation founded on respect for the "rule of law." are compelled to express our displeasure in a forceful manner. there is a desire on the part of many of us who continue to support the embargo at this time to see it ultimately lifted. but. we recognize that were we to lift it under the wrong conditions or at the wrong time. the net result would likely be an exacerbation rather than an alleviation of the problems to which it is addressed. i believe that this is the wrong time to lift the embargo for several reasons. first. thousands of turkish troops continue to be entrenched on cyprus. they are an intimidating force that inevitably makes turkish and turkishcypriot actions and policies appear coercive in nature. an ending of the embargo while such an intimidating military presence exists on cyprus would inevitably be interpreted on the island and elsewhere as u.s. acquiescence. however reluctant. to a coercive turkish posture. it matters  that such would  be the intent of a lifting of the embargo. the perception would be as i describe it. such a perception would fan the flames of antiamericanism in greece and on cyprus and could very well set in motion events that could lead to irreparable harm in our relations with both countries. second. during the past week. both the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot sides have tabled proposals designed to break the deadlock. at least in terms of getting the parties back to the negotiating table. i believe the sensible course of action for the united states is to allow a sufficient length of time to pass for the assessment of these proposals and for possible initiatives from the international community before taking any unilateral action on its own. there are times in international affairs when studied inaction is a wise tactic. third. many issues regarding human rights are involved in the cyprus controversy. the administration has elevated concern for such rights to a preeminent position in u.s. foreign policy. it would be a fundamental mistake to take an action that would raise serious doubts about the strength of our commitment to the human rights effort. lifting the embargo at a time when there are many unanswered questions regarding "human rights" on cyprus would be such a mistake.
only when a serious attempt is made by the turkish authorities regarding resettlement of refugees to ancestral homelands and there is a good faith accounting for those whose fate is unkn. could the united states conclude that human rights issues are being addressed in a serious and substantive egh manner to contemplate a total lifting of the embargo. . even though i do  believe conditions are such as to permit the united states to lift the embargo at this time. i fully support continued close associations with greece. cyprus. and turkey and hope that events in the immediate future will permit us to place those associations on a firmer basis than at present. positive action regarding further removal of the turkish military presence and a good faith effort to alleviate the physical and mental distress of those who have been dispossessed would do much to promote substantive negotiations which in turn would call for serious consideration of the embargo question. some movement has taken place. we will be well advised to refrain at this time from unilateral action that promises only to widen the gulf between the involved parties. jeopardize our relations with greece and cyprus. and reduce our ability to influence events. the embargo should remain in place at this time.
. i am back on the old question. what we are going to do about this difficult fueloil situation. monday aftern mr. foster. under secretary of commerce. appearing for mr. harriman. testified before our committee. he did an excellent job. insofar as he could. to justify the governments policy in terms of the export quota of petroleum and petroleum products during the first quarter of this year. i said at the conclusion of the hearings certain things which i intend to extend fully later in the record. but i should like to quote them in part: if i did  share your same concern as to the possible effectreferring to the full embargoi would have introduced such a bill a long time ago. because of the situation that confronts us. but  i think it is about time that i should weigh the kn effect on the people in new england and new jersey and other areas of this country against the possible effect on the people in some of these other countries. i requested the legislativc counsel to prepare two alternate bills. they are  ready yet. they will be filed as soon as they are ready. i want to make it perfectly clear that i support the action of our friends in canada. i maintain that the other countries can join and do likewise with us.
. just before i came to the floor a colleague from the detroit area of michigan informed me that  only are 200.000 people in that state out of work today but. apparently upon latest reports. there is every indication that they will remain out of work for a long time. until we meet this crisis which faces us. earlier today i reported that i had requested the office of the legislative counsel to prepare two joint resolutions which i proposed to introduce as soon as they were ready. i stated that in my later remarks i would include a statement i made to hon. william c. foster. under secretary of commerce. who testified during the day monday with reference to the departments annced export program of petroleum and petroleum products for the first quarter of 1948. because i inserted the department of commerce press release of january 16 as to the details of the allocations to countries and types of petroleum products. i shall  repeat it here. you will find it at page 329 of the record. my full statement to  asked about the wisdom of an embargo by mr. sadowski and others of us who have had to seriously consider it in terms of our own critical domestic situation. i have in mind your insistence throughout the day on the possible results and the hardship to the other nations which you said would be extreme. i think that i quote you accurately on that point. it strikes me that it was an important point. i have in mind your statement that even as of this date. you do  believe that there can be any essential change made in your quota program for the first quarter of this year. i assume that it might be possible to recoup some of the reserves set up there in the press release. i do  k what they are for. but perhaps we could get some heating and industrial oil from that source. but upon the assumption that you do  see any constructive method of having a single gallon of this oil going to other countries diverted to domestic use. although you are willing to have the review committee examine it thoroughly. i do want to reemphasize mr. hales questions and your answers as far back as last july. and i think it was on july 7.
hearings are scheduled to begin tomorrow. i believe witnesses are listed for tomorrow and friday. i may say very frankly to the gentleman that there is a growing sentiment among a lot of our colleagues to advocate full embargoes on petroleum and petroleum shipments. i do  altogether share this point of view because i think it might be very dangerous. i am  an expert in this thing. i think though we might upset our present intricate trade arrangements in other fields. however. i would like to see an embargo imposed at once until we can find out what the situation is. an embargo of 15. 20. 25. or 30 days. my bill does  provide for that. i have two alternatives. my second bill advocates that we cut down 50 percent to key into the canadian export program and the exports of countries that have been dependent upon us. but to any country that can show that we have exported to them from 1934 to 1938 we are justified in saying "we are sorry. but we can send more over to you just ."
. for weeks the committees and members of congress. as well as the public. have been told by representatives of the state and commerce departments that further reductions in exports of petroleum and petroleum products would be impossible. they have also been told by these spokesmen that. even the thought of an embargo for a limited period is out of the question. they have said that it is dangerous and might wreck the ecoies of other nations. i want to point out today that upon the analysis i made last thursday. which appears at pages 1157 and 1158 of the record. this argument is completely refuted. apart from the unsatisfactory reductions annced on january 30. it is clear that a complete 100percent embargo has been declared by the department of commerce as to products going to certain countries. there is such an embargo on kerosene to denmark and eire. on gas oil and distillate fuel oil to the republic of panama and iceland. on residual fuel oil to new zealand and the united kingdom. i understand the office of international trade has up to today issued export licenses for only approximately 400 barrels of all oils for shipment from east coast ports. we understood on january 30 that the department would refuse to license any shipments of oil through east coast ports. obviously. this is a complete 100percent embargo for all intents and purposes. of exports from this shortage area. i also understand that the treasury department is  in the process of ifying all customs offices to enforce the regulation as to all shipments. this. in effect. has implemented the complete embargo of january 30 on the export of all those products for an indefinite period from the critical areas. unless a date be set in the anncement. i k that members of congress will bear these facts in mind in the consideration of any legislation dealing with further restrictions or an embargo. certainly the clear facts outweigh any. misgivings and doubts on the part of the officials of the departments of state and commerce. although it is a relatively unimportant point. i hope each of you will make these facts very clear to all at home who may have occasion to read certain syndicated columns. attacking any embargo suggestion or attempting to smear the authors as being engaged in "smart politics" and referring to their sincere and honest efforts to provide solutions to this critical situation as "politics of reckless folly." we all k that several of these columnists readily respond to the appeals of their friends in the departments. but. unfortunately. too many people who read their columns are  aware of this particular type of specious demagoguery. which is still engaged in in some quarters. i realize that we are dealing with a technical subject. it is unfortunate that the termiogy varies so sharply i previously pleaded that we settle upon some simple language and stick to it. it is wonder that people are confused when they hear of tons one day. barrels the next day. gallons the next day. percentages the fourth day. dollars the fifth day. and net balances at the end of the week. the same thing is true when we -hear of allocations. quotas. export licenses. and actions undertaken through the customs offices. however. i think you may wish to have the record clear at this point. you will find that in the release of january 30. which i included in my remarks at page 852 of the record. i stated i was glad to be able to report that at 4:30 oclock that aftern the department of commerce annced a revised program on the exports of fuel oil. and i quoted this paragraph from the release. "in addition. the department annced it would eliminate licenses for export of petroleum products to export from those areas of the country where fuel can best be spared during this emergency period." of course. we all understood that to mean that the department would  issue licenses from eastcoast ports. and it appears that it has done so only to the relatively mi extent of some 400 barrels of all kinds of oil. todays action. if i understand it correctly. is a recommendation that the decision  to export or issue export licenses is  sufficient and that it leaves an opening. however slight. of relying upon licenses which may have been issued prior to january 30. therefore. the decision to ify the customs offices to refuse to authorize any shipments whatever plugs that loophole most effectively. yet. i must add that i am  satisfied it will be a sufficient action. and i intend to comment on that as soon as i can obtain more exact information as to the text of the anncement. at this point. i might add that i understand there are some legal questions involved and  being considered. the only ones i can think of might have to do with contracts already entered into for shipment during this period out of these ports to other countries. as a lawyer. i can overlook the difficulties of such a situation. if it exists nevertheless. morally. i can believe that any person who entered into such a contract recently is entitled to any consideration whatsoever. obviously. one possible motive would be the few extra filthy dollars in foreign sales at this time of critical shortages here. so far as i am concerned. that is a wholly inadequate reason for any american taking from his neighbors short supplies in this unhappy period. and i certainly hope we can get to the bottom of all factors leading to these foreign sales. one can deny that they have had their effect on increased prices throughout this country. and i think they are an example of the blindest kind of an approach to the problem of convincing the american people that our free enterprise system has worked and can work. if those responsible for its conduct will rise above the petty desire to make a few extra dollars. at the expense of their fellow countrymen. i can think of surer way for any industry to find the american people demanding a resumption of government controls and even. perhaps. the nat nalization of their industry than for it to ige the legitimate expectations of the people of this country. in terms of supplying them with an adequate amount of their goods at reasonable cost. therefore. if this is the legal difficulty. i am  going to waste much sympathy upon those who have brought it upon themselves. if he or it has to take a loss. he or it should do so without whining. certainly. the chances are that the loss will be infinitesimal compared to the accrued profits. if this is the kind of thing involved.
i may be mistaken as to what actually happened. but the secretary was before the committee this morning. he addressed himself primarily to the problem of synthetic oil. he was questioned. however. on a great many subjects. including the problem of exports. the department having one vote in the review committee. which has the final word on what the export quota shall be. i was called from the committee hearing for a matter of half an hour. and whether or  he made any reference to it i just can say at this time. i do k that the departments of commerce. interior. and state have furnished a volume of information. unfortunately. it is the sort of thing that bewilders you rather than explains anything. i think. i just have  been able to get what i need out of it. i am sure the committee would be glad to have the gentlewoman look it over and see if she can find something of value.
. i want my colleagues tomorrow morning to have before them the facts as they developed today. for their individual consideration. i am glad to state that at the conclusion of the executive session i took pains to urge one of the men who had been with us to consider a 48hour embargo. very seriously. because i was in dead earnest in suggesting it. and if it was  done by 5 oclock tonight i was going to take the liberty of asking my chairman to consider the wisdom of a third formal resolution. as a means of expressing our best judgment as to what should be done promptly. as in this emergency situation and in need of the facts. as disclosed to the committee approximately at n. i was advised that some officer of the state department wished to consult with us further. he dame to the committee room. authorized me to release the gallonage figures. gave me excellent reason for his hesitation in acting on his own responsibility and took certain material with him for return by 9 p. in.. if possible. he was most courteous and cooperative. perhaps this is all just as w~ll in view of what i understand to have been the incidence at the department of comme.ce this aftern. i placed my statements upon my own kledge and what was told me by reliable informants. before leaving the committee room i talked over the telephone with mr. thomas c. blaisdell. director of oit. my recollection is that he told me i could  anticipate that my suggestion of a 48hour embargo would be carried out. i replied that i thought that was a most unfortunate decision and was simply forcing me to express my own personal conviction that the department had been derelict in  acting promptly on the information he knew and i knew had been in the departments hands for several days in some instances. upon my arrival at my office one of the news services was on the telephone. i was asked what i knew about any 48hour embargo ordered earlier in the aftern. i stated i knew hing about it. and was surprised to hear of it in view of the conversation i had had over the telephone with mr. blaisdell approximately 10 minutes before that time. they then put me on with the man who had handled the story who advised me that it was a fact that a 48hour embargo had been ordered on the gulf coast. i do  recall whether it extended to the west coast. he said that within a very short time aher officer in the department explained that this order had been rescinded. shortly after 6 oclock. and in any event before 7 p. in.. the service called me to advise me that a 48hour embargo had been ordered. with some limitation as to dock side loadings and perhaps other limitations. i apologize for lack of full details. i will try to obtain them tomorrow for a report to the house on friday. in any event apparently we can be thankful for this order tonight. and can be hopeful that it will stay in effect until friday night. in the meantime. i shall try to gather the kn facts on the gulf coast as to loadings through industry. perhaps some of our colleagues in that area have means of helping us. i shall also try to enlist the aid of members of the press for a spotcheck tomorrow. i am glad to report on certain material furnished from the state department. as follows:
 i misled the gentleman if he understood that from my remarks. you see this embargo on the east coast is a flat embargo enforced by the customs officials. they will  ho any license for the shipment of oil out of eastcoast ports. parenthetically. i may say that that has had a major effect in turning a deficit of about 2.000.000 barrels to a surplus of approximately 3.000.000 barrels in that particular area. the office of international trade has refused to apply the same method of control over the gulfcoast ports and the westcoast ports. consequently the door is open to draining off any amount up to the quota amount or to any other point up to the total amount of the existing licenses. they are going over the amount of the quotas in some instances. apparently. and shipping without reference to the revised amount. we may find too late that several tankers have gone out with crude to an amount of twice the crude that has already been allotted or licensed.
. i am glad to report that an additional 10 members of the midwestern delegations have joined our efforts to have an embargo placed on the export of oil temporarily until we k where we are. i urge others to join with us. but at this time. since the 48hour period has expired. may i suggest that anyone who wishes to send a telegram request that the embargo be extended until the end of the week. two of the largest oil companies have advised me that they are in a position to do what we ask of them. that is. to store some of these stocks in some of the largest eastern harbors. if we can together make the office of international trade at long last recognize the soundness of this suggestion. we may be able to guarantee to our people that there will be more shortages of fuel oil in the thwest. the midwest. and the atlantic coast for the rest of the heating season.
 and other members. as of 12 oclock n the telegram which appears at page 1655 of yesterdays record is signed by 149 members of the house and 14 members ofthe other body. the telegram itself appears at page 153. each of you will have in your office a memorandum covering this. i have also brought to the floor copies which i will leave at both desks for those who may care to look it over. i also wish to report that we have some good news. in regard to one of the richfield oil corp. tankers. the coxcomb hill. which was chartered for a voyage from los angeles to australia. it will arrive in the united states about march 15. and will then go on domestic service. i talked this aftern with mr. blaisdell. i inquired if he had received the telegram sent yesterday.. he said he had  as yet. i asked him to put a tracer on it within the department so he could get a reply off promptly to last nights telegram and to these other telegrams. i am confident there will be aher telegram early tomorrow with further names. for we were limited today by reason of the short session and the pressure .of committee work. i regret that i can add a full report tonight because of a previous engagement i must  keep. but i plan tomorrow to use the full special order to complete this weeks work. i do wish to state that i am reasonably confident that we  have proof of the existence of the oil. the availability of tankers and other transportation and more than ample space. the sole remaining problem is to convince the departments concerned that they must act. and i intend to devote every possible moment to that purpose tomorrow. i have just finished long explanations of what i have received up to tonight to mr. blaisdell. mr. harrimans secretaryhe being out of town. judge collett at the white house in mr. steelmans absence. and to mr. eakens of the petroleum division of the state department. a total of 197 members have joined in requesting an embargo on shipments of petroleum and petroleum products from the gulf and west coast through february 28. the telegram sent late this aftern was as follows: washington. d. c.. february 25. 1948.
as i told the gentleman before i came on the floor. i have an appointment with judge collett this aftern. and i hope i may be able to-" see him. and also with the state department. with every indication that they are considering  the advisability of putting on an embargo for 48 hours until we can locate five tankers and get 599.000 barrels in new york harbor.
i do  k that i have authentic information. i have been advised some 18 additional members of this house have signed the telegrams in one form or aher. there are  216 members who are demanding immediate action. i am very happy to say that i understand the chairman of the democratic national committee sgned a telegram this aftern and i can understand why he would. he represents the great state of rhode island which is in danger and i think he has acted like a statesman. i commend him for his action. i can  add that in talking with a responsible and able official of the department of commerce this evening i was advised that the situation had developed to the point of an impasse between the executive and legislative branches. that the executive. through the department of commerce. has wired many of us that it could  grant our request and would  impose any further restrictions. he indicated that he felt the decision  was our responsibility. i am forced to accept his decision. i hope we can have the opportunity soon of acting. as one individual. i can escape the complete necessity of quick and decisive action on our part. in the face of the laws we have passed and the responsibilities we have vested in the secretary of commerce. since he will  act. i submit we must. a total of 207 members have  signed the telegram to mr. blaisdell asking for an embargo on the shipment of petroleum and petroleum products to the end of this week. february 28. pending receipt of the information requested. the additional members are: robert f. rockwell. representative from colorado. john sanborn. representative from idaho. paul cunningham. representative. from iowa. henry 0. talle. representative from iowa. george a. fallon. representative from maryland. fred l. crawford. representative from michigan. albert l. reeves. jr.. representative from missouri. frank a. mathews. jr.. representative from new jersey. ralph w. gwinn. representative from new york. robert j. corbett. representative from pennsylvania. james howard mcgrath. senator from rhode island. in addition to these. nine members from the west coast signed a similar telegraphic request. but covering only exports from the gulf coast. these are: leroy johnson. representative from california. john phillips. representative from california. gordon l. mcdogh. representative from california. ernest k. bramblett. representative from california. charles k. fletcher. representative from california. donald l. jackson. representative from california. hal holmes. representative from washington. walt horan. representative from washington. homer r. jones. representative from washington. so that 216 members of the house  clearly indicated their wish and recommendation. that is a clear majority. whose request should be a matter of concern to the department of commerce. new york. n. y.. february 26. 1948.
. i want to bring certain incontrovertible evidence to the attention of my colleagues in connection with the question which lies ahead of uswhether or  we shall act in fulfilling our responsibility as the legislative branch in terms of legislation providing for at least a limited embargo on the shipments of petroleum and petroleum products from the gulf ports during the next few days. i have  received the telegram which i understand was transmitted this morning from the acting secretary of commerce to those who sent the telegrams the other day requesting a 48hour embargo. but i was advised by telephone from his office that such a telegram had been prepared. had been signed by  wolverton. and as explained in frequent hearings before congressional committees on this subject. that such an embargo would  be in the national interest.
. i am very happy to report that the c6mmittee on interstate and foreign commerce has this morning voted out the embargo bill. house joint resolution 323. which i introduced on february 9. with certain committee amendments which i think definitely improv the legislation. with this constructive action having taken place this morning. i am hopeful that we will be able to prevail on the rules committee to give us a rule so that we can act within the next few days. in my judgment. it is imperative that we take this responsibility  and that we indicate that we very definitely propose to see that our constituents homes. schools. churches. and other buildings and domestic ecoy are protected. the department says we are at an impasse. and refuses to act. it is up to us to act . there will be a miity report filed on the resolution.
. newspaper articles published throughout this country yesterday reported on the sudden cancellation of the plan of secretary of commerce sawyer to reveal the nature of the exports from this country to the u. s. s. r. since march 1. the article which i shall quote in the record is an ap dispatch from this city. it is headlined. "united statesrussian trading shrouded in secrecy." united states policy on trade with russia settled into a "keep em guessing" phase today under strange circumstances. to the secrecy over what goods the soviet union will be licensed to buy here was added aher puzzler: what she actually has been allowed to get since the united states clamped down on export licenses march 1. plans for secretary of commerce sawyer to tell what american goods russia has been getting recentlyas a rough guide to what she can have in the futurewere canceled abruptly yesterday. reason was given for the cancellation. but it was learned authoritatively that secretary of state marshall made a personal call on sawyer shortly before the plans were. changed.
. on table 3 on page 28 of the third quarterly report. i e that there was exported a total of 90.4 thousand net tons of steel goods to the u. s. s. r. in 1947. including 27.000 tons of pipe and tubing. which we have been discussing. does that last sentence. in view of the record of exports. indicate that if the u. s. s. r. furnishes some kind of information. or if countries under the present domination of the u. s. s. r. furnish certain kinds of information. this country is going to issue export licenses of steel to those countries.
if it turns out that assumption is incorrect and they do furnish certain kinds of information. the most important condition precedent. as i understand your statement. would be that in return they give us. they export to us critical material. ores. metals. and that sort of thing. is that right.
i am just expressing this as a thought that this committee. if the other members agree with me. might like to have that. i do  k about that. i may bring it up again if i can return. would it  be a pretty sound policy to adopt in terms of export of tubular goods or critically needed steel as you have discussed it in your formal statement. that is domestically needed. to first insist if $hey furnish the information that they also provide the goods here first and then in terms of the goods we actually get from them we could determine whether that might be worth while to issue some export license. but  issue them ahead of evidence that actually in good faith they are going to furnish us with these goods.
. before we leave this subject. i should like to call attention to the fact that in ohio much study has been devoted to the production of rubber from the guayule plant. manufacturers in ohio are proceeding with the experiment as rapidly as possible. and they -think that there should be action like that proposed in the measure before the senate as soon as possible. because the plants will have to be put in the ground at an early date. i call the attention of senators to a recent report by the united states tariff commission. which summarizes the whole subject in five or six pages. i think that report would be of value if it were presented to the senate when the bill again comes before it.
. for many years . i have observed with more than routine interest events in southern africa. i regret to say that selfdetermination has been systematically denied by the south african and portuguese governments to the majority of the population in that part of the world. thus. i was concerned by press reports that appeared in january 1971. describing the sale of two boeing 707 aircraft directly to the portuguese government. for there was some question whether this transaction violated the terms of the 1961 u.s. embargo on the sale of arms to portugal for use in africa. at that time. i wrote to the secretary of state for more information. and i received a prompt reply from his department. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the original washington post article by marilyn berger which prompted my inquiry. my letter to the secretary of state. the answer i received from the state department. and an earlier letter i received from state which has been described to me as probably the most complete public disclosure ever made of u.s. policy toward portugal in africa.
the senator is quite right. the purpose here. in any event. is  to place an embargo upon dumping. but rather to provide for research which will make it possible for us to decide. on the basis of an orderly means. what dumping is harmful and what dumping is permissible. which would be a later decision. the purpose here is to discover the alternate means.
. on friday the committee on foreign relations. by a close vote. recommended to the senate the passage of a resolution (s. con. res. 161) expressing the objection of the congress. pursuant to section 36(b) of the arms export control act. to the proposed sale of missiles to saudi arabia. that action was reported to the floor. and the resolution was placed on the calendar. i should say that i was personally involved in the proceedings in the case. perhaps the chief sponsor of the action. though the resolution itself had been introduced by our colleague from wisconsin . there is doubt about the fact that everyone knew of my interest in this matter. doubt at all. for reasons which they considered sufficient. a number of people connected. some of them. with the state department or the administration. persuaded certain members of the senate to bring up this morning a motion to recommit that resolution to the committee on foreign relations. i was  ified.  was my office.  was any effort made to ify me or my office. which i regard as a singular breach of the kind of relationship which members of the senate are accustomed to show to one aher. the kind of courtesy. but more than that. the kind of working trust and confidence without which this body can operate. because of that. i shall ask unanimous consenti am  asking it at this momentto have vacated the action taken this morning in my absence. without ice to mean inexcusable breach of the courtesy and the consideration upon which this body depends for its operation. and which each member of this body is entitled to rely on. there is in addition a question. which i do  want to waive my my request. as to whether the action sending it back may well be in violation of the procedure set up in the nelson amendment making resolutions of this kind preferred actions. capable of being brought to the floor by any member regardless of the action taken on them by the committee on foreign relations. i do  wish to waive that point. and i shall be very happy indeed to press it again at the proper time. but i make my first request solely on the ground that. contrary to the traditions of this chamber and to the plain decency with which a member of the senate is entitled to expect to be treated-
. i oppose the language proposed by the committee on foreign relations concerning cuba. it seems to me both premature and inadvisable that we should consider action by the congress favorable to cuba at this time. i am pleased sen. mcgovern decided to strike the language from his bill. my reasons for opposing allowing trade with cubawhether it is "one way trade" as suggested by the committee amendment. or "twoway trade"-is my belief that cuba remains opposed in practice to american foreign policy in africa and in the middle east and that it expresses this opposition by allowing itself to be used as a surrogate for the soviet union in these areas. were we and cuba at odds on foreign policy matters without soviet manipulation. i might take a longer view of cuban foreign policy attivitie. but ifiitlil cifcumstance i regard the cuban operations in these areas as destabiliing on the one hand and as lending legitimacy to soviet revolutionary aims in these areas. i also regard these cuban activities in africa as destabilizing despite the claims that in some instances the numbers of personnel may be relatively low. it does  take many men to have a significant impact on logistics or other import support functions in some african military conflicts. also. we can close our eyes to the castro governments activities at homei refer especially to the holding of politica. prisoners including huber matoes. we can ige these human rights matters in considering the course of our future relations with cuba. further. i think it should be clear to all of us that cuba remains itself an important soviet intelligence gathering base which is used against us. there has been let up to my kledge of these continuing activities. apart from giving the soviets a good spy base. the proxinity to the united states and the constant operations are expensive for us in the actions we have to take to thwart their effectiveness. in all. i can see why we should move  to give to cuba benefits they have  earned. and i do  think the world expects that of us. when we get down to serious business with cuba and when cuba decides  to be an active agent for soviet objectivesin our own hemisphere. in africa. in the middle east and elsewherethen i think the time will be at hand to malize relations and achieve real agreements with that country. and when that time comes we should act to malize trade both waysit is ridiculous to permit the united states to sell to cuba but refuse to let cuba sell to the united states.
. one of the problems in solving the rhodesian situation has been the lack of trust and a good understanding of the attitudes on all sides. a major aspect of this has been a tendency by the white rhodesians to misjudge the extent to which many in the outside world are concerned about the legitimate grievances of the black rhodesians. the isolation of rhodesia. partly due to geography. and partly due to the censored press. has been a contributing factor. therefore. earlier this year. i cosponsored an amendmentsubsequently approved by congresswhich expressed opposition to the efforts to close the small rhodesian information office in washington. although the office distributes publications and tries to influence people. it also serves a reporting function in the manner of a small consulate. also. although i was a cosponsor of the legislation which successfully repealed the byrd amendment and thus reimposed the embargo on rhodesian chrome ore. i joined last week with the senator from virginia to criticize the denial of visas to two rhodesian blacks. the state department allowed visas to several other black rhodesians who support the socalled internal solution. but  the two tribal chiefs on the grounds that as members of parliament. they were assisting the smith government. this is a rather legalistic viewpoint. and i can only agree with the new york times editorial that in this situation. we should  curb the flow of ideas. i ask unanimous consent to have the editorial printed in the record.
the amendment met with the immediate opposition of industry and the state department. a spokesman for the department said that while the amendment would limit the flexibility of the executive branch. it would enforce greater discipline upon the department in expediting export approvals. while the legislation was under consideration on the floor of the senate. senator stevenson wrote a letter to senator percy. a member of the senate foreign relations committee. seeking the withdrawal of the amendment. at the same time. senator stevenson promised that his banking subcommittee on international finance would begin hearings on export controls this fall as part of the extension of the export administration act of 1969. . i ask unanimous consent that a copy of senator stevensons letter to senator percy be inserted at this point in the record.
. i have been advised that following the inquiries made by my office and others into the proposed plane sale to syria. the export license is  being reviewed at higher policy levels in the state department. i am pleased to hear that a second look is being taken. even if belatedly. i urge the administration to make the reassessment a careful and deliberate oneand in the meantime suspend the license.*
ialcongressional commission on foreign ecoic policy. the randall commission. which has given the country a tremendous blueprint of one of the most critical problems facing our government probably the most criticalbecause the prospects for peace are directly connected with americas foreign ecoic policy which will. in turn. be determined by our trade and investment policy. under the law today the commission will expire on april 25. 1954. hence i am introducing legislation today to extend the life of the randall commission until january 2. 1955. so that it may participate in the implementation of its recommendations and make additional recommendations to the congress. it is essential that in terms of legislation we get the benefit of the emous amount of work and experience regarding foreign trade and investment which  resides in this commission. foreign ecoic policy regarding exports and imports. investments. technical assistance and travel will be a major influence in determining continued high levels of ecoic activity within the united states. keeping the free world united for freedom by helping it deal with its grave ecoic problem and assuring strategic material supplies for our country and our allies in free world defense. the grave decline in agricultural exports from the united states is one clear indication of danger in the field of international trade and shows that the whole problem requires urgent attention. the commission should be in existence to make its full contribution.  just to write a report. as it has. it has given us a solid middleoftheroad document. it has shown us the way to do the job our country must do if we are to have peace through a successful free world.
s program. which is more comprehensive. yet. i and others like me must be for it because it continues the climate in which the people of america say to the whole free world. "we want to make progress toward ecoic integration and improve materially the ecoic situation of the free world." i heard the gentleman from iowa. whom i respect and admire. ask the question about polish ham. and so forth. this reflects a point of view in our country about importsaside from the question of eastwest trade. i would like to say in answer to thatand may i say again that this is separate from the question of imports from the soviet bloc or any eastwest tradethat we have to have a perspective on this situation. twelve billion dollars in imports into the united states. the present rate. is something under 1 percent of a total import on the goods which is bought and consumed here. and all the people like myself who say we have to extend world trade. if you want any real answer to eastwest strategic trade and if you do  want to drive what are  our allies into the arms of the communists for trade reasons. it is by giving them a little better opportunity for trade domestically. as well as in other countries of the world. all we are talking about is a possible increase from 1 to 2 percent. that is all we are talking about in the order of magnitude. because the production in all of these countries where we want to encourage imports to us is  great egh to challenge us. i submit you are talking about a real ecoic anticommunist measure in this whole reciprocal trade program and that every member should understand it.
i will say to the gentleman that i have  the detailed facts before me any more than our colleague. the gentleman from tennessee. but i respectfully submit the gentleman is begging the question. reciprocal trade means we are going to make agreements. open up trade channels. it means we can integrate the policy. and let in others. because it helps our consumers and our countrys ecoy. it does  mean we can protect ourselves should it hurt us unduly. on the contrary. we can and do. i think you get completely off the subject and distort it when you set as a criterion a maximum of 500.000 or 600.000 people in the country who are affected by these imports. and whom we should by all means aid in a transition. and disregard the criterion of our own security. of over 60 million americans who are employed and of 4.5 to 5 million americans who are strictly concerned with the export industries. our exports could fall and fall dangerously because we do  do this job.
. the thing i want to emphasize strongly in this discussion is that those who represent consumer areas in the house. those who represent the export industry and farm areas in the house. those who understand that this is but a small example of the same kind of difficulty which the house had when it used to pass tariff bills. had better take a very hard look at this bill. and vote against it. it is going to raise prices to the consumer. i believe it is going to increase the consumers subjection to what may be. in effect. a controlled market. the fact that one company puts out 70 percent of all the hardboard in the united states has  been contradicted in this debate. as far as the argument that this is simply a technical mistake is concerned. i point out there were hearings. whereas an administrative agency could have had hearings and come to some judgment on the technical aspects of this case. we are asked to pass upon it on a technical point without evidence. and i can see how that can be justified.
. i present. for appropriate reference. a resolution adopted by the new york state board. ancient order of hibernians in america. relating to tariff rates on irish woolens. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
. obviously the bill provides for an extension for 2 years. without any other amendment of the export control act. the bill is an extremely valuable piece of proposed legislation. i was in the house of representatives when it was drafted in the committee on foreign affairs. the bill enables the united states to have flexibility to engage in this kind of restriction. and at the same time to make the needed agreements .with our allies and the rest of the world. as the world situation allows. i hope very much that the bill will be passed.
. mr. alkhimov sums up as follows on page 6 of his article: the most important form of ecoic cooperation of the u. s. s. r. with other powers. including the countries which are poorly developed in regard to ecoic relationships. is foreign trade on the basis of the preservation of mutual interests and interference in internal affairs. the u. s. s. r. proceeds on the indisputable idea that international trade has great significance  only from the ecoic point of view but also from the point of view of the adjustment of social relationships between countries and the strengthening of peace in the entire world. it seems very clear that the soviet union expects to marshal its ecoic resources to make the people of the world. especially people in the underdeveloped areas. forget all about its repressions. its brutality. its terrorism in hungary and other countries. its subversion and infiltration. its terrorizing of the individual. and its deprivation of the individual of any human dignity or human freedom. because it believes that the key to the minds of the peoples of the world who have just obtained their freedom and are emerging from primitive states of ecoic being is what can be done in terms of improving their standards of living. i believe that. too. but in addition. i believe that we have the tremendous power of the ideal of freedom. which we represent. given the two together. our victory. in terms of free institutions and peace. is absolutely sure. provided we marshal our resources for the purpose. the soviet union is depending upon us  to do so. the marxists and leninists believe that the organization of capitalistic society is such that we can do so. we k that we can do so. given the will. provided we open our eyes to the realities of the world situation. that is the purpose of my talk today. i hope very much that my voice. together with that of many others. both in the congress and in the country. may help the american people see how their fundamental interests are involved. and induce them to marshal the needed resources. which can indisputably win the struggle for peace. freedom. and human dignity.
 kubitschek of brazil warns that antiamerican elements are continuing to propagandize vigorously against the united states and against hemispheric cooperation. commodity price questions. tariff and quota policies of trade. the interamerican exchange of professors and students and skilled technicians and other people. and conditions for private investment in the american republics are vitally important and urgent subjects which require the attention of a meeting of foreign ministers. we submit the resolution by way of showing our own feeling with respect to this need and desirability. and also in the hope of showing the spirit of friendship and neighborliness of the senate on the same subject. for that reason i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may lie on the table for the remainder of the day. so that additional senators may join in sponsoring it.
 made in the national interest. get their first taste of blood. we shall be overriding the tariff act. a smart parliamentarian could say that the language. which reads. "approves recommendations made by the tariff commission." which would be the language of the resolution which the congress would pass by majority vote-
. i have discussed the amendment with the distinguished chairman of the committee and the senator from vermont . the amendment fits in directly with the amendment just agreed to. offered by the senator from minnesota for himself and other senators. the amendment of the senator from minnesota related to the work of the tariff commission with respect to the adjustments necessary for small business. when the tariff commission decides or does  decide to grant relief. this amendment would put into the work of the new commission which is provided for by the socalled flanders amendmenta commission which is to study the pros and cons of the reciprocal trade policy generallythe question of the adjustment assistance for small business which may be injured by imports. i hope very much the chairman of the committee. with whom i have discussed the matter. and who also understands the views of the distinguished senator from vermont. will see fit to take the amendment to conference. since it is designed to carry out the fundamental purposes which are set forth in the humphrey amendment.
. the bill is to amend the tariff act of 1930 to remove restrictions on importation of certain articles by persons returning from abroad. it deals with the prohibition of the importation of certain trademarked articles without the consent of the trademarks owner. it is particularly onerous with respect to perfume and similar items. i hope very much we can have action on the bill in this session.
. this represents aher element in my longstanding interest in the promotion of international travel. upon which this matter bears. i have today introduced in the senate a bill to remove a tariff restriction which u.s. customs officials report to be a source of major anance to americans returning from abroad. it would amend the tariff act of 1930 to permit the importation of trademarked articles without the consent of the trademarks owner when the item is for the personal use of the traveler. a gift from a serviceman abroad or is part of the personal effects of a government employee or immigrant. the long overdue change i am proposing would eliminate a mi provision in the present tariff laws which is a major cause of irritation and embarrassment to american travelers and considerable inconvenience for customs officers. it would remove the existing prohibition against importation of trademarked items without the written permission of the trademarks owner. permitting u.s. tourists to bring home worldfamous brands of perfumes. cameras. watches. and so forth. as long as they are meant for the purchasers own use and their value is charged against the personal exemption allowed. at the present time. u.s. residents may bring in articles duty free up to the amount of $200 if they have been outside the country for at least 48 hours. $300 if they have been gone 12 days or more. up to a maximum of $500 for any single trip extending beyond that period. the tremendous expansion in u.s. tourist travel to foreign countries has meant that the great majority of american travelers annually avail themselves of the opportunity to purchase abroad for their own use such items as biulars. watches. records. musical instruments. jewelry. cameras. perfumes. and various toilet articles bearing popular trade names. most of them are unaware that there is a long. constantly changing list of such articles which they can bring home. even if their total cost falls within their personal exempton. unless they have obtained the written consent of the trademark owner. as a result. customs officers are forced to seize these items from the baggage of the u.s. residents returning home and withold them from the purchaser regardless of value. there is little rhyme or reason to the present provision. for in a number of cases. trademark owners of famous perfumes limit tourists to one bottle each without written permission. while in the case of many other equally well kn products.  a single item may be imported. in addition. the u.s. tariff commission has gone on record in regard to severe criticism leveled at this restriction and the many complaints about it filed by american travelers. the commission also points out that customs officers are put to a considerable amount of extra work in connection with enforcing it. similar legislation dealing with this tariff restriction was introduced in the 85th congress by senator frederick g. payne. of maine. of which i was cosponsor. following its review by the treasury department. which declared itself in favor of the purpose of the bill. the present measure was drafted incorporating the departments suggestions.
. the miity leader promised me 2 minutes on the bill my colleague. the senator from new york questioned the senator from oklahoma about the deletion of the language which appeared in the house version. with respect to the buy american policy. that policy is a matter with respect to which i have some considerable difference. as regards the international trade of the united states. so i would  wish to have my question indicate any compromise of my views on policy. i desire. however. to have a legal question straightened out. in the interest of the representative in the other body who sponsored the amendment. he claims that the words which appear near the top of page 6. namely. "shall  be subject to the requirements or limitations of any other law" immediately excise all other laws. including this one. reference is made to the socalled buy american act. on page 7 of the committee report it appears that the house amendment was stricken out because it was unncessary.
i thank the senator from vermont. i point out. too. that we have other sources of difficulty with our brothers to the th. we placed some quotas on various minerals. an action which they do  like. we put some import quotas on oil. which is an action they do  like. they are very restless about the tremendous way in which their whole ecoy is geared to that of the united states. and in which their currency is geared to that of the united states. there is a tremendous interest which we have in unity with canada. it seems to me that we would be striking at a peculiarly sensitive nerve. let us say. looking at the problem in the perspective of history. with this small matter. but this is the kind of test. as the senator has said so well before. and is saying so well . which is a test of good faith. let us consider how often we have said that we can trust the soviet union in connection with an agreement. when the soviet union has backtracked on a small matter. but a matter which to us was indicative of their general attitude. would we want to incur that kind of reputation with canada.
. i submit. and ask unanimous consent. since it is being done outside the morning hour. that it may be received and appropriately referred. a resolution on behalf of myself and my colleague. the junior senator from new york to declare the support of the congress for a new program of export credit guarantees to be carried out by the exportimport bank of washington. in line with the administrations emphasis on the need to expand the u.s. export trade.
the president today sent congress a message emphasizing the urgent need for expanding the exports of the united states. there also was issued an anncement by the exportimport bank of washington. under the hand of its president. a very distinguished american. samuel c. waugh. of a new program of guarantees for shortterm export credits. those of 6 months and less. and the giving of political risk guarantees. inaugurating a new program which the exportimport bank of washington had  theretofore carlied on. for some time i have been studying the question of how to increase american exports. as this need is absolutely dictated for us by considerations of national interest and national security. and even more urgently by the imbalance of our international payments. which is a very serious aspect of our present ecoic condition. the united states has been behind the world parade in respect of export credit guarantees. for practically every leading industrial nation in the world has a program for export credit guarantees. and the united states did . in a major way. until today. when the program is being effectively inaugurated. therefore. the resolution which i send to the desk for my distinguished colleague and myselfand i call this to the attention of the senate because it is  merely a sense resolution favoring the programcalls for the evaluation of the effectiveness of the export credit guarantee program to be pursued by the united states compared with similar programs pursued by the other major exporting nations of the world. this is very important. because it is a terrific race in which we have two factors to consider. first. our competition with other export nations. and. second. our ecoic position in the world. and the way that ecoic position is buttressed by our exports. the continuance of u.s. ecoic leadership in the world today is directly related to our role as the globes biggest single exporter during the last decade. when we were responsible for over 17 percent of total world exports. then. in 1959. we incurred a deficit in the balance of our international payments of $3.8 billion. which prompted the president to stress in his state of the union message that "continuing deficits of anything like this magnitude would. over time. impair our own ecoic growth and check the forward progress of the free world. we must meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world trade." right . u.s. private oversea investment and the u.s. ecoic aid program represent the single largest source of development capital available in the free world. and particularly to the newly developing nations. where free political and ecoic institutions are just starting to take root. a prolonged slump in the u.s. export trade would seriously diminish these resources. which currently strengthen freedom and resistance to the communist blocs ecoic offensive in latin america. africa. the middle east. and south and southeast asia. it is with these realities in mind that this resolution is being introduced to help stimulate a resurgence of u.s. export trade in the face of the mounting foreign competition in world markets. one of the most obvious and most necessary first steps in this effort is a broad program of guarantees of export credits. the united states would at last be adopting a policy which has been in practice for up to 40 years in some countries. and which has proved very profitable to many businesses in the nations of western europe which have scored major export trade gains in recent years. in 1958. the share of the world market which had previously been held by u.s. cvi---371 manufactured goods began to shrink. an estimated $500 million worth of u.s. manufactures which we expected to sell overseas found buyers abroad. if that trend also held true last year. then our total sales in this category for 1958 and 1959 fell almost $1 billion below expectations as based on our sales of manufactured items from 195456. meanwhile. export credit guarantee programs were already in operation in some 18 foreign countries. including the united kingdom. germany. other major european nations. canada. japan. australia. india. israel. and south africa. between 1957 and 1958. while our exports declined some 15 percent. several of these countries increased their share of world markets. in the first half of 1959. most of these countries registered a remarkable export increase. in complete contradiction of the u.s. export trend for the same months. most of the nations that are our strongest foreigntrade competitors have comprehensive guarantee programs. covering both commercial and political risks. where the exporter obtains from his government insurance or guarantee and then takes his insured credit to a private bank for financing. between 5 and 15 percent of these countries exports are insured by their own governments. with the result that foreign businessmen have profited as billions of dollars in foreign goods have been sold abroad as a direct result of government programs of shortterm export credit guarantees covering political. and in some cases commercial. risks which could  have been obtained by a u.s. businessman in most cases. we can also draw on the experience of other government guarantee programs and predict that the very existence of such a system  put into an operational basis by the exportimport bank would encourage u.s. banks and companies which  have limited or experience in export to get into this area if such guarantees were offered. the designation of the exportimport bank. a federally chartered lending institution with $2 billion of its $7 billion authority currently available. to perform this function is a natural choice. during its 25 years in existence. the bank has extended some $10 billion in credits to spur u.s. foreign trade. and it is already authorized by the congress to guarantee es. drafts. checks. bills of exchange. acceptances. including bankers acceptances. cable transfers. and other evidences of indebtedness which represent the exchange media for foreign trade. eventually. should export credit guaranties be available in the united states on a scale comparable to other plans. it is conceivable that the sale of anywhere from $800 million to $2 billion in u.s. goods abroad could be expedited annually. contrary to what is generally supposed. the exportimport bank is   extending any export credit guarantees. although it technically has the authority to do so. as competition in world markets becomes still keener. the drive for u.s. export expansion will encompass efforts to raise productivity. to keep our goods at competitive prices. and to develop new products while helping open up new markets in underdeveloped areas. but the congress should  overlook the development of anything as basic as an export credit guarantee programit is an international trade technique which has played a most significant part in the 70percent increase since 1950 in total world export trade of $100 billion annually today. 
. i should like to k the reason for this amendment. i may point out. in order that the senate may be apprised of the import of this particular amendment. that it means that the only place at which voting records may be inspected by the attorney general or his representatives will be the state place of their deposit. namely. the registrars office or the courthouse. or wherever they may be. this amendment must be read in the light of the fact that the committee struck out section 304. which would make it possible to produce the records at the office of the united states attorney in the district in which such records or papers are located. it is traditional in election cases that records are produced in court. and that records may be produced in response to a subpena. there is a very marked difference between the mal practice in election cases and what is provided for in this bill with respect to the preservation of voting records. i would appreciate it very much if the sponsor of the amendment would state his reasons for adopting it.
would the senator agree that if the mover of the amendment said that the regulations of the treasury could be modified to show the time of decision or the time of import. so that if the importer certified at the time of importation that he was  importing for human consumption or for conversion to human consumption. then he was complying with the act. and that would be the end of the matter. if that construction is  put on it. then there is way of regulating. hing will be imported except what is subject to duty. the question is. will the mover accept the construction of his amendment to mean that it is at the time and point of import or withdrawal that this determination may be made on the certification of the import.
this is a subject of tremendously absorbing interest to me. to my state. and. i think. to the united states. i merely would like to add to the statement of the senator from illis. which. in his usual vein. is so informative and eloquent. the other side of the coin. there are emous industries in our country interested in exports. we shall probably have. this year. a $3 billion export surplus. there is also a growing feeling on the part of certain industries adversely affected by imports which could seriously affect both legislative policy and executive department policy on the whole matter of foreign trade. also. we are going into critical negotiations on the general agreement on tariffs and trade. which will be opening at the very start of 1961. this question involves also the financial situation of the united states and. indeed. whether the dollar will sell at par. because it involves the international balance of payments of the united states. so the question is important  only from the point of view of the manufacturer or businessman in this country who feels himself adversely affected by imports and  sufficiently protected under the existing escape clause and peril point procedures available to him under the reciprocal trade agreements act. but it also affects an impressive body of people in this country who believe in foreign trade. and in its exemption. and in the need for the united states to expand materially its export markets. it concerns the millions of persons engaged in industries so affected. from both standpoints. i believe the senators proposal is of tremendous interest. i k of the senators interest in the problem. i shall read the joint resolution carefully. i have little doubt that i shall join in cosponsorship. both from the standpoint of those who are in favor of greater foreign trade and those who think they are entitled to something more in the way of protectionalism. this is an extremely vital exercise on the part of the united states to develop a solution in this part of its foreign policy. in view of its peace leadership.
. it gives me great pleasure to join in cosponsorship of the joint resolution introduced by the senator from illis [mr. dirkseni to create a commission on international trade which would be designed to study the influence of foreign trade upon the u.s. ecoy. i stress these thoughts at this time. however. i hope the commission will  only take into consideration the domestic and foreignpolicy implications to the united states in terms of its ecoics. but also in terms of its peace leadership. for the political and diplomatic implications of the u.s. trade policy in our struggle to cope with the massive and manyfaceted communist challenge. in my opinion. is at least equal to those in their importance. this must be emphasized because. in foreign trade as in so many other aspects of our national life. we are going to have to make some sacrifices in order to keep the world free. furthermore. i k such a commission will avail itself of the manifold resources and talent available in such agencies of the u.s. government as the bureau of foreign commerce of the department of commerce. the department of state. the department of agriculture. the tariff commission. and other agencies of government. as well as private agencies. the experience and the information that has been accumulated in these organs of government will. i am sure. provide invaluable assistance to the work of the commission.
. it is highly desirable to have a truly flexible trade policy which will  be linked to impossibly high trade barriers that could lock out the exports of nations which currently import increasing amounts of u.s. goods. the strength of our export position is frequently misunderstood because of confusion with other factors affecting our international balance of payments. the new york trade publication purchasing week seeks to set the export picture straight in an analysis published in its issue of october 31. which points out that the greatest threat to our foreign markets comes from productivity gains by foreign producers and . as commonly supposed. from wages paid american workers. and from failure to meet competitive credit terms. i ask unanimous consent that this study. entitled "export pace shows u.s. prices arent prohibitive." be printed in the record.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from new jersey lmr. case]. i send to the desk for appropriate reference two bills. one entitled "the national export policy act of 1961." the other entitled "the national import policy act of 1961." i ask unanimous consent that the bills may lie upon the desk until the close of business on monday for other senators to join in sponsorship. i invite the attention of senators to the fact that i hope to have the privilege later in the day of addressing myself to the very major policy questions bearing directly upon our present most serious problem. the imbalance of our international payments. which are dealt with by these bills.
s broadly outlined proposals of export expansion. the united states can expand its exports unless we deal with the import problem in a positive and restrictive manner and unless we effectively coordinate and augment the export services of the government. among my constituents there are workers and businessmen producing textiles. gloves. boys and mens clothing. womens garments. industrial chemicals fabricated metal products. cord and twine. electronic and office maohine equipment. sporting goods. and specialties. such as buttons and toys. all or part of whose industries are feeling the concentrated impact of foreign competition. yet i also have among my constituents most of the 10 million people living in the great port of new york area. one fourth of whom depend on foreign trade for their livelihood. the 1 million people living in the area of the port of buffalo. a large number of whom also earn their living from the foreign trade passing through there. as well as workers and owners in industries in which exports often mean the difference between profit and loss. work and unemployment. their enterprises range from automobile manufacturing to steel. and they also are found in many of the industries. such as chemicals. metal products. electronics and even textiles. parts of which are adversely affected by concentrated imports. furthermore. all of my constituents have a basic interest in a healthy ecoy and in the international position of the united statesboth of which depend on an expansion of u.s. foreign trade. it is most necessary to find a way of alleviating the serious problems of imports competition in such a way as  to seriously impede export expansion. the solution which is offered in s. 851 and s. 852 is  the result of abstract ecoic theory but of the practical consideration of local. statewide and national interest. i offer it for the consideration and the cosponsorship of my colleagues.
. i should like to have the attention of the senator from rhode island. because i wish to address myself for a few minutes to the fundamental thesis which he has espoused today because i have been on the floor practically all aftern. i think that illustrates. perhaps however. i love the senator from rhode island. so i shall make point of that. i simply wish to make some observations on what he has said. in my opinion. the one thing which has been missing from the whole discussionand i would be derelict after 15 years of service in congress if i did  speak of it precisely at this time. because there is hing like speaking to a subject when it is an issueis the idea that competitive factors must have an impact upon the american ecoy as i shall demonstrate in a moment. i have every desire to make certain that they shall be safeguarded as americans and as the trustees of our valuable resources. at the same time. i think we must all realize that we are  living in a vacuum. and that what is done here will have a profound effect  only upon our foreign policy and our own prospects for business. but also. and very importantly. upon our pocketbooks. because right  we are showing an emous surplus in trade. with exports acounting for something like $3.5 billion of income to the united states in excess of our imports. the looks of our international imbalance of payments will be much worse if we suffer any serious diminution of exports. in addition. the exports are on an upward curve right . whereas our imports are holding relatively stable. the reason for that. of course. is the renewed stimulation of the ecoic systems in many parts of the world. attributable to common markets. to trade associations. and to other similar activities of integration. in addition. there are many new countries starting. and they also are seeking opportunities to expand their trade. quotas have been fought against in all international affairs. in the main. in the negotiations with respect to the socalled reciprocal trade concessions. quotas probably have been the leading objectives. so far as the united states is concerned. they are fought against all over the world in terms of liberalizing trade. etheless. even i. withstanding my deep feelings about international trade. do  rule out the possibilities which the senator from rhode island has suggested to us in his very interesting and very important presentation. what i do point outand i come  to my main pointis that there is a point at which two things will happen. first. at some point. factually. certain parts of american industry will be obsolescent. there are branches of the textile industry. as well as branches of every other industry in the united states. which at some particular point. due to the competitive factor. due to the overriding right of the consumer to have the highest efficiency in terms of production. may become obsolescent by the sheer force of competition or by the sheer force of the growth of techogy. we can give an overriding guarantee to everyone that he will stay in business forever. otherwise there will  be a private ecoic system. the second point. which i think is very important. and which was also  referred to by the senator from rhode island. is the difficulty which lurks in the whole international trade picture. it may very well be that the overriding national interest will dictate to us a certain course in respect of international trade. perhaps under the reciprocal trade agreements program. which could be harmful. the senator from rhode island has pointed out many areas which he feels very strongly are harmful. certain sections of our domestic industry suffer in my own state of new york. as the senator so properly said. imports have affected us. by imports. we are talking  about the concentration of imports of a particular kind at a particular time. such imports have affected us adversely. one type of textile imports in particular which has affected us. and about which the senator from rhode island spoke. is in the carpet field. new york state has real problems in a number of areas. the imports of many other commodities have affected us. whether in the field of utensils. flatware. bicycles. or many other articles. the important point is that where we find. as an absolute. urgent. national problem. that we can give protectionand i do  use that word as a word of art in the tariff field. but strictly as a word of common usageto a particular industry in the united states. etheless there remains an obligation on the part of our government to make certain that the workers are  harmed. but that the overriding national interest can permit us to safeguard them as we desire to safeguard them. this is a grave problem. and i am delighted that the senator from rhode island has discussed it. there are few senators who can speak so eloquently and so well as does the senator from rhode island. i have the deepest affection and regard for him. and those feelings. incidentally
that was my point. there are cases in which it will be necessary for our government to do something other than proceed merely by way of quotas or higher tariffs. other techniques. if some can be devised. may have to be used in order to deal with these problems. there are cases in which industries and. primarily the workers in them. may suffer adversely unless our government in some way can enable them to be retrained or. if necessary. to be relocated. and perhaps to be financed. if possible. while they obtain techogical training for other employment. until they can return to the mainstream of our ecoy. it seems to me that unless we have some such program. to be a part of our total. overall approach to the grave problem of serious import competition. we shall  bring the situation into focus. because unless we have some such federal government program. i believe we shall be inclined to hold an umbrella over allboth the weak and the strong. both the efficient and the inefficient. and in that event we may encounter a grave problem of windfalls. which has developed in similar situations. with the result that those who do  deserve protection do receive it. nevertheless. because when an umbrella is held up. it is held over both the weak and the strong. therefore. in summary. i wish to say that as a part of whatever approach we make to this problemand i could  agree more with the senator from rhode island in regard to the urgent need to discuss the question and to come to firm solutionsand much as i k that the mainstream of all our postwar policy has been against the quota idea. nevertheless. we may even have to come to it. i do  rule it out. at all. i have too much respect for senators who serve on the subcommittee to say categorically that we could  do that. but in order to get the problem into focusalthough perhaps this is  precisely the situation with which the subcommittee headed by the senator from rhode island had to deali say we also must have some means by which. if we can satisfy a particular ecoic situation through quotas and through the tariff route or some other route which does  completely jeopardize our relationships with the rest of the world. when we are compelled to deal with a situation in a trade field in which some people will be put out of work by imports. we must have a federal government policy which will see them through in terms of federal assistance. if we do . and if we do  have a platform of that kind that will help an industry or a set of industries when faced with a situation similar to the one to which the senator from rhode island has referred. an extremely grave situation will develop.
. it is significant that  only the report of the committee on small business. "small business exports and the world market." presented yesterday by the distinguished chairman of the committee. but also the final staff report by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce." the united states and world trade." emphasize the need for large scale action in the field of export promotion. these reports are a direct reflection of the increasing awareness on the part of u.s. businessmen that exports are a vital element in their profit picture. it is also a reflection of the increasing awareness by congress and by the executive branch that u.s. trade is the primary tool of our foreign ecoic policy.
. i am a party to the bill. as the senator from alabama has so graciously stated. the purpose of which is the furtherance of a campaign we are waging to stimulate exports. the senator from alabama has very graciously added my name. in view of the fact that i have introduced a sort of pilot plant bill on the subject. called the sparkmanjavits bill. there is a very important point that i would like to make. with the senators indulgence. it is generally thought that export trade is static: that if we get export trade. we are taking it away from someone else. hing could be further from the truth. for example. consider the european common market. where we have materially increased our export trade in 1960. and which has very materially increased the standard of living in the countries which participate in the market. we are helping emous areas by providing public investment. and they are helping themselves through their own indiges investment in the new type of ecoy. by some measure of industrialization. some diversification of the agricultural ecoy. and better health and sanitation. all this creates new wealth and generates new wants. when those wants are stimulated. as the advertising business has shown in this country they can be. the people are stimulated to greater activity and initiative. in short. we have an emous new market. we are  taking it away from anyone else. that market will be divided. with everyone getting far more than he got before. it is only by visualizing these wants. as we would in any other enterprise. that we can understand the impact which will result. so i agree with the senator from alabama. this is an imaginative approach. i think it is important to point out that by stimulating trade with every nation on earth we are building the sum total of foreign trade.  only for ourselves. but for everyone else. and measures of this nature will help to achieve that end.
 as one of the means for dealing with our nations balance of payments problem. i believe that the consideration of this legislation should provide the congress with an opportunity for considering related legislation to eliminate inequities in the tariff laws applicable to tourists which have been a source of irritation both to returning u.s. residents and. to foreign visitors coming to our shores. i therefore propose an amendment to this bill. which would permit visitors to the united states to bring in gifts dutyfree up to $100 instead of the present $10 limit. the current limit has been a source of irritation to foreign visitors who can understand why u.s. tourists abroad can spend up to $500 while they are limited to $10. this amendment would equalize their situations.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks an article from the new york times of june 25. 1961. by brendan m. jones. entitled "new policy due on foreign trade." this article points to an issue which the congress and the business and labor communities of the united states view with growing concern. it is an issue basic to the ecoic leadership of the united states in the free world and deeply affects the course of u.s. policy in the struggle against communism. our concern with the importance of this issue is underlined by the fact that this administration has  yet come up with a plan for a u.s. foreign trade policy. later this week i expect to present to the senate my views on this matter. i hope that many of my colleagues. who have expressed interest and concern on the foreign trade issue. will be able to take part in the discussion. in the meantime. however. i wish to bring the article by mr. jones to the attention of the senate. it summarizes concisely our present position and outlines the policy vacuum in which we find ourselves. this reluctance to deal with the hard domestic problems and foreign challenges presented by the need for trade expansion should end. in 12 months the reciprocal trade agreements act expires and we must prepare  so that at the end of that time we will have a positive trade policy to carry us through this new decade.
i should like the united states to follow both approaches. i think the people of the countries of the european ecoic community and the european free trade association are very much more worried than most americans are about what we are likely to do at home. it is my proposal that we embark on the path which will give us greatest strength for negotiating with them. i think that path is more likely to be the proposal i have recommended than imposed quotas. we can always follow the imposed quotas path as an extreme. as a technique for getting the most out of our negotiation. i think that would be the wrong way to approach the problem.
. i call the attention of the senate to a very important matter which is taking place today in geneva. where representatives of the leaders in the textile industry from many countries. including our own. together with state department representatives and observers from many countries. are meeting under the auspices of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. for the purpose of seeking to rationalize the question of concentrated imports of textiles. the question of textile imports is a major problem in our country. and i have strongly urged upon the congress that we adopt measures of adjustment and assistance which will deal with the problem of concentrated imports. rather than the imposition of quotas. it is because i stand here with those who are in the forefront of the idea of expanding trade for the world that i think i have the right to speak today. i urge upon the nations who are meeting at geneva. especially those nations who are responsible for the concentrated imports in textiles. to agree to voluntary quotas. because. whatever i may think or whatever others like me may think. the situation is one of real seriousness. it would be a big blow to the trade of the world. and to our own export trade. if we were driven to impose quotas or use other restrictive devices. yet that is a real danger. and the problem can be dealt with in a constructive. statesmanlike way if there will be an effort to come to an accommodation at the conference at geneva. i express the hope that the counsel will prevail.  as a counsel of reason. but as one of selfinterest. because. if it does  prevail. a dangerous situation will confront world trade.
may i ask the senator from louisiana a question in this connection. i have listened with a great deal of interest to what he has said because of our interests. the consumer interests of big cities. such as our interests and the interests of the senator from illis . how does the senator from louisiana go about ascertaining the position of a government department which relates to the views of the consumers. i heard the senator from california say that the department of agriculture has constantly approved this amendment. i could hardly believe my ears in terms of consumer interests in that regard. because i k a little about this problem with respect to bakery products. i wonder if the senator from louisiana could tell us whether reports are requested from other departments besides the department of agriculture. for example. in this case would it be the state department. the state department would be interested in the import question. on what department does the senator rely for a report with respect to the consumer angle.
madam president. i hope the senate will understand the real importance of what is being done here today. both by means of the splendid initiative undertaken by the senator from california in accepting the provisions of senate bill 1729. and by means of the equally critical change being made by means of the amendments submitted by the senator from virginia . when we rush through legislationand i do  say that invidiouslywe have a tendency to fail to recognize its purpose and its critical importance. madam president. the bill the senator from california is presenting to the senate today relates in a most important way to the export trade of the united states. which amounts to almost $20 billion a year. and determines the employment in the united states of between 4 million and 5 million persons. the amendments which the senator from virginia has submittedand i understand that the senator from california will accept themput the exportimport bank for the first time in an effective position to enable our export trade to compete with the export trade of the united kingdom. france. germany. belgium. holland. japan. and the other industrialized nations of the world. by enabling the exportimport bank effectivelyand i think the record should show precisely what that meansto guarantee and insure export credits. both short term and long term. with a heavy emphasis upon insuring against political risks. but also taking some of the commercial risks. and permitting the exportimport bank to back up such guarantees and insurance with a 25percent capital reserve. thereby giving the bank increased ability to make such guarantees. this is to be done in cooperation with a large number of u.s. banks and insurance companies which. in cooperation with the exportimport bank. will handle these credits. in addition. the life of the exportimport bank will be extended 5 years. from 1963 to 1968which is necessary in order to enable the bank to undertake so momentous and sizable a program. of course all of us want the bill to be enacted. there is some dispute as to the utilization of diplomatic officials who are particularly concerned with commerce. the senator from california would prefer to have them treated in one way. others prefer aher way. but in my opinion that point is  critical to the bill. what is critical is the enactment of the bill. we want it enacted. but if it is  enacted. at least let the record show clearly that at the very least the substance of the amendments of the senator from virginia must become law. because they are indispensable to the expansion of our trade and. indeed. to enabling the export trade of the united states to compete with the export trade of the other industrialized nations of the free world.
madam president. first let me express my gratification at the way in which two committees can get along. i wish to congratulate both my colleagues from virginia and washington. as well as the floor manager of the bill. there could have been a real collision between these two very important senate committees. but through the intelligent way in which it has been handled  only has that been avoided. but the cause. which is the important thing. has been forwarded. i think i would be remiss in my duty. because of my deep concern in this question. if i did  call attention to the fact that this is a bill for export promotion. also. i bring attention to the fact that ody can buy from us unless they sell to us. so let those who have stood on the floor here inveighing against the competition of imports bear in mind that when we pass a bill like this. which is vital to the ecoy of our country. also undertake to understand the importance of the export situation which affects our country. i have a bill pending with the senator from new jersey . which relates to the problems of imports into the united states and endeavors to find some way of dealing with the problem where the concentration of imports has materially harmed american business. i k we shall be into the subject up to our ears in connection with the extension of the reciprocal trade agreements act. and i shall  detain my colleagues with a statement on it this aftern. except to point out. and it is inherent in this debate. that as we strive to move toward the step which is embodied in the bill from the banking and currency committee. and the bill of the senator from california. we are taking a big step forward in relation to expanding american exports. with the emous implication of range that it has in domestic employment. aid to underdeveloped areas. in terms of good will to the whole world. and in the facilitation of our own place in the world in terms of our own prestige. but this involves our having imports. and let us  forget it. madam president. in that connection. it  only involves the import problem. as to which the senator from new jersey and i recommend the idea of adjustment assistanceas i say. we will come to that in aher debatebut it also involves the opportunity for imports. included in that opportunity is the opportunity for foreigners to show their wares in our own country. s. 1729 has a fine provision with respect to encouraging our participation in trade fairs abroad as a part of our export expansion. i had hoped to go further and to have the proposal for an export commission adopted. but that can be done by executive action. so i am  too despondent by its omission. as the senator from california has said. there are egh problems involved without taking on aher one. i am sorry title 5 was stricken out. the intention having been to utilize counterpart funds piled up under public law 480. the agricultural trade act under which we sell so much of our produce abroad in return for counterpart currencies. and also to expand our exports. a correlative aspect of it would be an opportunity for foreigners also. utilizing these piled up currencies. which  run into billions of dollars in face amount. to send trade exhibitions and trade fairs to our country. thus stimulating the twoway intercourse which is the very essence of the life of trade. the committee did  see fit to include that title. i can understand why. i utilize this time merely to express the hope that the committee will  relinquish its study of the problems of counterpart currencies. so that they may be used going both ways. to develop our exports as well as the opportunity for foreigners to show their wares in this country. so that those currencies may  go down the drain. that provision is  included in the bill. i understand why. but i call attention to that fact. the bill has one other purpose. again i hope the people of our country will pay strict attention to this situation. we are about to have. because diplomatically it seemed wise to encourage it. far greater competition in respect of export trade than we have ever had before in terms of the european ecoic community. otherwise kn as the common market. which is going to be expanded by the inclusion of great britain. it is estimated that 25 percent of our total exports will  be moving into the european ecoic community. that is an emous proportion. obviously. if the ecoic community were to use even a fraction of the devices which are available to them. we could be very materially harmed. that is all the more reason why we should show the enterprise which is shown in this bill. i hope very much that when we get to the issue next year we will show enterprise again in the consideration of the extension of the reciprocal trade agreements act. i have the ho to be chairman of the nato interparliamentary committee. which is made up of representatives of 16 parliaments. hence my acquaintance with the situation. i hope we will all understand that situation. though we may lose more exports to the new european ecoic community with its tremendous bloc of power. which is likely to reach a population of 300 million. with a gross national product equaling our own. somewhere in the area of $500 billion a year. so we are dealing with a vital part of our whole society. we may lose some exports. but we will more than gain what we lose by utilizing the increased standard of living that the people in the common market itself. which has  materially increased its own ecoic wellbeing by nearly 40 percent. and can meet this potential by adapting ourselves to meet the new opportunity which the world affords us. as well as the new challenge. it is in that spirit that i think we ought to understand the bill which the senator from california has brought up. as well as the one from the banking and currency committee. s. 2325. to which the senator from virginia has referred.
madam piesident. i conclude by saying that i think the idea national 2840). javits bill title trade policy act of 1962 (s. purpose to provide trade negotiating authority for the president. under the control and direction of the congress. to meet the challenges of the ecoic forces sweeping the worldsuch as the growth of regional trading groups. the requirements of the newly developing free world nations. and the soviet bloc potential for ecoic penetration. to provide assistance to business enterprises. individuals and communities in adjusting to changed ecoic conditions resulting from increased u.s. participation in world trade. advisory committee on trade policy shall be composed of nine members. appointed by the president. and shall be broadly representative of production. commerce. finance. agriculture. labor. and consumer interests. one of the members shall be a member of the national export expansion committee which was established in 1960. the advisory committee shall meet one or more times a year. on the call of the president. for consultation on the administration of this act. extent of and limitations on presidential authority in agreements with lowcost producing industrialized and developing nations or areas. duties may be reduced by 50 percent. or reduced to a rate of 30 percentwhichever is lower. in agreements with fully developed nations or areas. duties may be reduced by 100 percent. e.-the bill defines fully developing nations or areas as having a substantial manufacturing output and a productivity rate at least onethird that of the united states. other freeworld nations or areas are lowcost producing industrialized or developing.  more than onehalf of the maximum authorized decrease shall become effective in any one year. of presenting a feasible alternative to congress is a very desirable one. certainly from our side of the aisle. as carrying out some of the approaches which we have in mind and as giving an opportunity and a rallying point for those who may agree with the fundamental objectives of the trade program. but who may have differences in method which may be resolved. i have offered my bill in that spirit. i think it is well kn that if trade legislation is to become law at this session of congress. it will be necessary to get votes from both sides of the aisle in order to accomplish it. i hope very much that those votes may be obtainable. and i shall do my best to help bring that about. but that can only happen if the views of those on both sides of the aisle who are fighting for the same objectives find some reflection in the ultimate legislative package which goes to the president for his signature. the analysis and supplemental statement presented by mr. javits are as follows: administration bill trade expansion act of 1962 (h.r. 9900. introduced by mr. mills). to lower trade barriers through mutually beneficial trade agreements. in order to stimulate u.s. ecoic growth. enlarge foreign markets for u.s. products. benefit the u.s. consumer. strengthen u.s. ties with the european ecoic community and foreign countiries through discriminatory free world trade. assist newly developing free world nations. and counter communist ecoic penetration. . to provide assistance to enterprises. workers and farmers in adjusting to new conditions resulting from increased trade with the european ecoic community and foreign countries. e.-see below: "adjustment assistance advisory board." duties may be reduced by 50 percent except that agreements with the european ecoic community can exceed this limitation on all articles within any category (threedigit group of the standard international trade classification) in which the united states and the european ecoic community account for 80 percent or more of the world export value. duty reductions shall take effect in five annual installments. exhmrt 1
my colleague and i are interested in an item technically described as facefinished hardboard. its more mal description is tempered and painted hardboard. i believe we have satisfied ourselves with respect to that subject through discussion with the senator in charge of the bill. however. i should like to place in the record the necessary answers to the questions asked by my colleague and myself. in order to save time. my colleague has kindly consented to let me ask the questions. 1962 the main problem we raised was that a compromise rate of duty which would apply to both facefinished and facefinished hardboard would. for practical purposes. bring about an increase in the ad valorem duty on facefinished or oiltreated hardboard of a certain type. hence those who employ that kind of material felt they would be adversely affected. in a letter dated april 13. 1962. we were informed by the chairman of the tariff commission that. in view of the way in which the bill would operateit is prospective in its operationthere would be. first. consideration of any problems such as the one raised with the tariff commission. which again may make reports. and the final schedules would  be published by the president until there had been an opportunity to consider questions of the kind that my colleague and i have raised. we have also been assured by the commissioner in the letter as follows: the commission is most anxious that the proposed tariff schedules carry out the purposes of the tariff classification study without adversely affecting any of the interested parties. whether they be domestic producers or importers. in the interest of assuring the accomplishment of this result for the proposals with respect to facefinished hardboard. the commission will be pleased to review such proposals under the procedure set forth in section 101(b) (4). and you may be assured that steps will be taken to effect such a review as soon as practicable after enactment of h.r. 10607.
the second question is as follows: the senator has stated that the committee is prepared to undertake the necessary action based upon the report of the tariff commission. should it have any different view after the proposed hearing.
. the fair will have an export section devoted to goods and services of american manufacturers who wish to sell to foreign markets. signalizing the critical importance of the expansion of our export trade. upon which i have spoken in the senate many times. and will  therefore at this time enlarge upon this point in this connection except to say. as i have said in the past. that it is of very great importance. the fair also promotes tourism to the united states. with new york city as the focal point. but of course the people who come to the fair naturally will travel in many other parts of the country. the world trade fair annually draws an attendance of about 170.000 from every state of the union and over 70 foreign countries. it is quite properly an ecoic stimulation measure in the interest of our country. and should have its sanction. which is described in the joint resolution.
. also. in the discussion of the amendment of the senator from new york reference was made to the fact that declaration need be filed on exports to canada. we have inquired of the commerce department with regard to this and find that a shippers export declaration must be made for all shipments of items that are on the positive list. therefore. there is a certain document. showing destination. for example. that must be filed.
. perhaps we could understand that position if it were in aher context and at aher time and if the issues were  so important. in this connection. i have the greatest sympathy for my colleague . who worked hard on his amendments. finally they were agreed to by an overwhelming majority of the senate. his amendments are directed at putting our domestic house in order and seeing to it that the penalties are made to fit the crime when the national interest is so arrogantly defied in the case of export controls. i tried to provide for similar procedure with respect to international authority. in directing our government authorities to put their feet on the road toward closing an emous hole in our dike of freedom. in terms of trade. but all these amendments are dropped by the conference report. i believe that this conference report confronts us with the same thingand i say this with the greatest respect for the senator from alabamathat we considered when. a few moments ago. i protested against conferences which are absolutely broken down and deadlocked. somehow or other. the most stubborn persons control the congress. it may be one. it may be two. it may be three. or it may be four. somehow or other. the majority can manifest its will. and what is even more important. it frequently fails to show that degree of dugin determination which the people have a right to expect from a majority in order to manifest its will. suppose there were export controls on saturday night because some of the vital provisions referred to by myself or my colleague were  a part of the conference report. this would be very harmful. but it would be the essence of a democracy. the fact that it is harmful does  mean that it would  be well to do it that way.
a few importers in new york import refined sugar from the united kingdom. belgium. the netherlands. and canada. i gather that the continuation of those imports. which amount to about 5.500 tons a year. will be cut off by the adoption of the house language. the clerk of the conference has directed my attention to a provision at the foot of page 6 of the conference report on that subject. my question is. first. to confirm that that is so. and the reason for it. and second. to ask a question which those people have put to me. perhaps the senator from louisiana can help with that. perhaps he can. it is the fear of the new york importers that the department of agriculture may seek to make this part of the act retroactive. so that even if the importers could get some of the sugar into the united states in the next few days. before the bill became law. the entry of it would be invalidated for some reason. that seems inconceivable to me.
i am grateful to the  i. too. would like to make a few observations. if i may. on the conference report. which. i must say. i find  nearly as satisfactory or encouraging as does the senator from connecticut. we are facing a very serious situation in the world which only enlarged exports can change. it is absolutely astounding to me that we do  show the necessary ecoic sophistication to understand that in order to enlarge the exportation of goods. we must do something about the bill which we are  doing. in short. the very senators who express the gravest concern about voting for foreign aid and how it would run the country down the drain. and so forth. are those who would probably embrace with alacrity the very elements of this bill which would prevent us from paying the foreign aid bill without borrowing. our imbalance of international payments is serious. it continues to be serious. in essence it represents something like $3 billion plus a year. it is a substantial imbalance. yet we have found that it is the will of this body. with which i could  agree more. that we shall continue our military and ecoic aid obligations which do much to create the imbalance.  do we wish to restrict our private investments abroad. which are essential to the worlds development. in fact. our private oversea investment in many areas is very deficient right  and. if anything. we are  forwarding the worlds development as well as we must. etheless. when we get to the bill we lose any understanding of the connection between the balance of payments and trade. if we want to balance our international payments. we must trade more than we do. certainly we have a $3-. $4- or $5billion export surplus. depending on whether or  one counts government supported exports. but that is  egh. it is  egh. also. for the development of the world which represents perils and needs way beyond that. but the house has been allowed to prevail in the elements of the bill which would bring about the greatest restrictions and pull us back from acquiring an ability to balance our payments and to do the ecoic development job. i have fault to find with the senator from virginia . i am sure he did as well as he could. but it represents a lack of consciousness on the part of our country which does  come back to senators in order to give us the strength and support. and in the other body. also it is  communicated. as to what we need in the way of a bill. what is wrong with the bill. i shall be brief. because i do  wish to keep my dear friend the senator from oregon on his feet longer than necessary. first. we would place a premium on the british getting into the european common market whether they like it or . because by receding from that section of the senate bill which provided that we could group together. for purposes of mutual tariff elimination. those in the european ecoic community. the six nations. with those in the european free trade association. which would include the united kingdom. we  have put aher gun at britains head to make great britain go into the common market. otherwise. she could  make with us  could we make with her or any other nation an effort to obtain the large concessions required to expand international trade with respect to most of the major items of that trade. because we can go beyond the 50percent tariff reduction limitation of the bill. except when we and the european ecoic community handle 80 percent of the world exports of a particular commodity. the united kingdom is  in the european common market. therefore. we would put an additional burden on her to get in. withstanding the disquietude of many of her dominions and other commonwealth members. which think the proposal is a very bad idea for her and them. withstanding the fact that in order to get in. she needs to make a good trade deal with the commonwealth. we want her in the european common market. but we want her also to have her right to a ticket to protect her commonwealth and  to have the ticket written by the european common market countries. yet. by passing the bill in this fashion. we have given britain an additional handicap to the one she is already under. she must negotiate with the european common market. we k she is under a considerable handicap already. that is the first point. second. we have a great opportunity in making a bid to the communist world. the new nations in africa. latin america. and asia. which is infinitely more important. in my view. than much that we can do for them in terms of aid. we have stricken out one sentence in the senate bill which would give away a tremendous asset which we had in our hands. one of the purposes of the original bill was "to assist in the progress of countries in the earlier stages of their ecoic development." that meant that when we bargained with great industrial powersand the great industrial powers represent the great export markets of the worldwe could bargain for brazils coffee. we could bargain for ghanas cocoa. we could bargain for nitrates from chile. we could bargain for wool from argentina or meat from argentina. we could bargain for silver from mexico. in short. we could do something with our great ecoic power to help the new nations of the world in trade which to them is far more important than aid. by striking out that provision. we have  limited the presidents directive so that he longer must try to serve that particular purpose. in my opinion. we have deprived ourselves also of a great propaganda asset with these newly developing nations. to which we could have said. "we have inserted in our trade bill a stipulation that we will provide what is more important to you than aid itself." finally. i think we are making a colossal blunder in respect of poland and yugoslavia.
. in this one bill are incorporated almost all the inequities. inconsistencies. and improvidences of the foreign ecoic policy of the united states. first. the bill is bad for consumers. second. it will complicate our relations very seriously with those with whom we deal in the world. i will prove that. it will cause  only bad blood. but actual loss of business. of course. the bicycle manufacturers feel that the loss of business will  fall on them. but will fall on other manufacturers. i do  say they are callous or indifferent. but. like everyone else. they feel that they must look out for themselves. and that that is the rule of business. i believe that is true until we get to congress. where we are supposed to take a broad look at the whole subject. third. the day after we approved the trade expansion act of 1962. the pending bill would seek to undercut it. we do  wait very long. the very day after we approve the trade bill we are already trying to undercut it. fourth. if all these things were  sufficient. it is my honest judgment this measure would  help the bicycle manufacturers. because foreign manufacturers have shown their ability to hurdle high tariffs. the tariff is  111/4 percent. even if it were doubled. to 2212 percent. based upon past history. the foreign manufacturers would be able to hurdle that tariff also. they would be able to hurdle it. as they have been able to hurdle the 114percent tariff. the real answer to foreign competition is better merchandising. a better product. and better sales appeal to the american consumer. it can be found in erecting a somewhat higher tariff wall. that has already been pretty well recognized by many companies. many of those who believe they are entitled to the protection of our tariff laws have sought to use the quota system. they had real confidence that any kind of tariff increase. unless it were completely unreasonable. would do them much good. for all those reasons. i believe the bill represents an unwise exercise of our discretion and judgment. because i believe it is so critically important to the future of our nation that we engage effectively in the exportimport business. and expand our exports as much as possible. i think these issues need to be raised and discussed. whether or  they have the effect of killing the bill. i understand the bill was reported unanimously by the committee on finance. i do  k that there is a great deal of support for my position. etheless i feel it my duty to state it. because of my deep concern with the expansion of our exports. and because of the way we have. when something needs to be said. to say it. and implement it in the saying. it does have an effect. even though it may  have a direct impact upon the particular measure to which it is directed. i should like to proceed . to prove some of the statements that i have made. in the first place. i said this was a bad bill for the consumers. the purport of the bill is. by changing the definition of what is a lightweight bicycle. to change the definition which is  incorporated in the tariff laws and double the import duty on lightweight bicycles which have curved frames. it is assumed that doubling the import duty on these bicycles will raise their retail price by about $5 for each bicycle. on the estimated 300.000 bicycles that will be involved. the cost to the consumers will be a million and a half dollars. i believe that american consumers have begun to realize what they should realize. and that is that a vital and active foreign trade is very important to them. it is a builtin gover on inefficiency. it is a builtin gover on unreasonable prices. many millions of americans ride bicycles. i myself ride one. incidentally. i have been riding an american.  a british bicycle. i find an american bicycle very satisfactory. and riding a bicycle a wonderful form of outdoor exercise.
i am bringing the matter to an issue promptly and quickly. actually. i had hoped to accommodate my distinguished colleague. who is most anxious to get away. as i hope the rest of us will be able to do. it is my intention to demonstrate the point that if we desire to do something about international trade which is in accordance with the trade expansion act. which was just passed. it is necessary for us to practice what we preach. whether we do so on this bill or and apparently we will it is very important to make the point. it must be said. so that those who deal with us may k that there are many members of this body and of the other body who understand the situation only too well. today i may loseand probably shall. but tomorrow. i may very well win with the same argument and with the very allies who may vote against me today. because this case has to be made. and only experience can make it. finally. it is said that there was an intent in the trade agreement that we should  cover this particular situation. and that all we are doing is expressing intent. the bureau of customs does  think so. and the executive agencies of the government do  think so. they all have ruled exactly the other way. and they are the people who negotiated the trade agreement. if there was an intent. it was theirs. and they say flatly that there was such intent. finally. . at this time i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. in closing i wish to pay tribute to the farsighted leadership of my dear friend the distinguished senator from illis . who. it will be remembered. enabled the senate to amend the trade expansion act by authorizing tariff elimination with the eec and with members of the european free trade association. of whom the united kingdom is one. whether or  these two organizations actually combined into one. this amendment was lost in the conference. the amendment. which was lost in conference with the house. was reintroduced by the senator from illis . and i commend" him highly for that step. and i support him. what i am adding in my proposal will allow  only the european free trade community to be dealt with adequately. but the commonwealth countries. including canada as well. i have every confidence that the senator from illis will join me. or i will join him in the broadened concept which is absolutely essential as a step to give some feeling of reassurance and confidence to the people of great britain and the people of the commonwealth who today might very well feel adrift in the ecoic turn of the world pending early action in the senate upon the measure of the senator from illis and myself.
. which i make in this situation: first. through exploration of means to achieve an outwardlooking ecoic partnership with: all the british commonwealth and with other free world nations excluded from the ecc by general de gaulles veto. this involves the establishment of close reciprocal trade ties with great britain. canada. australia. new zealand. members of the european free trade association. and japan. it involves closer association of the united states in the ecoic development programs of the british commonwealthas for example. the socalled colombo plan.
let me finish my thought the point made is twofold. first. the treaty is a bilateral arrangement. the declaration of may 1950 has been interpreted as a unilateral declaration. second. the number of events which have taken place since that declaration has been such as to raise questions as to whether it still remains the valid commitment of the three powers. in addition to that fact. if there is need for a redeclaration of that commitment in order to make the world understand the import of it. i think we might as well go to the point of modernizing the relationship as between the united states and middle east security. as it was shown to be capable of modernization by the example of the philippines mutual defense agreement. and incorporate an agreement of this character in our foreign policy. in view of the fact that. as secretary dulles stated. the fundamental tenet. at least. that there shall be in the middle east a secure and independent israel. has never been challenged
the senator is exactly correct. i .thank him for that contribution to the discussion. looking down the long corridor of history. it is a fact that this showcase of what can be accomplished by modern techogy. modern development. and modern ideas of freedom and culture is bound to have its effect upon dispelling the gloom of night which surrounds so much of the arab states. i see something of an analogy concerning our deep feelings with respect to west berlin. which also stands as a beacon in the communist sea. so long as it stands and shines. it gives hope to the hundreds of millions enslaved by the communists. although the arab states enslavement of their own people is in illiteracy. in disease. in shortness of life tenure. and in lagging behind the rest of the world by 50 years. it is etheless a kind of slavery. even though selfimposed. in the ultimate it is this example which is being developed in the middle east which will cause the ferment that will bring about a change. as the senator from massachusetts has so properly said. this is the great vindication of american policy. which would be swept down the drain if we did  give our attention to the security issue . the ecoic issue is closely associated with peace. and israels ecoic problems are intimately linked with the political situation. israel needs every dollar of foreign exchange to pay for past debts and sustain its armed forces as well as to maintain its current ecoic efforts. israel needs our help to resist the corroding effects of the arab boycott and blockade. these steps toward collective security backed by concrete action would be a course consistent with united states and free world interests and security. it would provide a positive initiative toward an end to the arms race. an end to boycotts. discrimination and other obstacles to the free flow of trade. a negotiated settlement of the outstanding differences between israel and the arab states. and the beginning of an era of peace in which the full potential of the middle east could be developed for its benefit and that of the world. . i should like to close by emphasizing the pinioning keystone character of israel in that area of the world. we have some confidence that king husseins courage. so largely personal. will pay off. i do  say for a minute that hussein is any more favorable to israel than any other ruler or arab state. he has taken his position with them as being dead set against israel. but the fact is that if israels security were impaired. we would hold out very little hope for the maintenance of the free worlds position in that area of the world. i emphasize that point because i recur to the hard realities of an appraisal -of israels meaning and strength in that area of the world. which is the final determinant as to what ought to be americas policy. and which i believe must  be directed by an affirmative and meaningful step to assure that israel will  find herself exposed and alone as the power declared to be against her and designed for her elimination mounts and is consolidated. as is being done right 
i think it. is very important for people like myself to make clear the differentiation between two questions which somewhat telescope. the senator from ohio has referred to what i believe is a fundamental error. namely. failure to recognize the difference between the balance of payments and the adequacy of our gold stock. as to the adequacy of our gold stock. i point out that when we had $24 billion of it. leading monetary authorities of the world felt that if the world was to progress. we had to get rid of some of it. there was too much in one place.
having that much at one point was  good. that is  the present situation. but i do  believe. in all honesty. that the gold stock question. which is a real one. should cause us to overlook other factors. because if we wish to. we can reduce the percentage from 25 to 20. as we reduced it from 40 to 25. the dollar will be better or worse at 25 percent. 20 percent. 15 percent. or 10 percent. the real question is. will the world accept the money because it is worth something. it is worth something.  because of the gold buried in fort k. it is worth something based on the productive machine of the united states. that productive machine is based on less than a 7to1 ratio. it cix574 is worth  less than a thousand billion dollars as compared with the outstanding obligations of the country. which are about onethird of that. based upon our national debt. when the senator from ohio speaks about our balance of payments. which is our fever chart to show how we are doing in respect to world competition. i am just as much concerned as anyone else. including the senator from ohio . the senator from virginia . the senator from rhode island . or the senator from utah . but i do  believe that the two thingsthe adequacy of the gold price. and the balance of paymentsshould be confused. balance of payments is a separate factor. involving the question of whether we are exporting egh in order to fulfill our responsibilities throughout the world. and whether we can live off fat any more. we have been living off fat for a considerable period of time. the monetary question and the gold question relate to whether the base is adequate for the amount of business which the united states needs to do in the world. and the backing which our currency gives to the currency of most other nations in the world. ours is the central currency for all mankind. i think here the answer is in the affirmative. as i say. we stand strong in the world of currency. but on balance of payments. we leave much to be desired.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to create a national advisory council on export policy and operation to encourage increased u.s. exports. cosponsoring the bill are senators case. coop.r.
i have been glad to hear the sdnator from missouri comment on what was done at the preliminary gatt negotiations. let me ask whether he agrees with me that on the floor of the senate there are altogether too few senators who are concerned with the details of tariff and trade negotiations which may very well exercise a decisive influence upon our countrys ecoic policy. let me also ask whether he will join with me in inviting senators to study carefully what he and other senatorson both sides of the aislehave said. and whether he also agrees that it is most important to maintain continued debate on this subject on the floor of the senate. so. that when the issue comes before the senate for decision. senators will  proceed on the basis of so great a lack of orientationas frequently happens in connection with this field.
. the conclusion to which the inquiry and the very informative replies bring us is an understanding that we must on a much wider and bolder basis than heretofore if we are to deal effectively with this potentially dangerous balanceofpayments problem. the hard questions are raised as to what we are doing to reduce the imbalance of payments in the field of shifting the defense load to some extent to western europe. in regard to the outflow of foreign exchange attributable to the fact that many fewer tourists come to america than we send abroad. in respect to the lag in our export situation. which acts so heavily against us in the imbalance of international payments. and in respect to the arrangements which we are making with other central banks in order to help us with this situation. the series of questions have been put to secretary dillon. i will bring back the answers to the senate so that attention may continue to be focused upon the urgent need for our doing much more than we are  doing to solve this potentially dangerous problem.
. i have been watching with great concern developments in western europe which tend to negate our basic foreign trade policy objectives: the gradual expansion of worldwide trade through the mutual elimination of trade barriers. the failure of britains admission to the eec and the unfavorable results of the first ministerial meetings in geneva under the trade expanson act. call into question the adequacy of our negotiating position at the coming trade talks. by unduly concentrating on our trade with the eec to the exclusion of our other major trading partners such as canada. latin america. the united kingdom and japan. we are acting against our own national interest as well as the interest of the free world. with these thoughts in mind. i made a statement on this floor on may 17 calling for a reappraisal of the trade expansion act and the elimination of contradiction from our foreign trade policy. my remarks received wide national circulation. generating comments from businessmen. trade associations. foreign governments and plain citizens. i believe these replies indicate the existence of a national consensus behind the national effort to reduce trade barriers and the adjustment of our ecoy to the competitive realities of the day. increased productivity  protectionism is the rational answer to import competition. i believe a sampling of these comments will be of interest to my colleagues. i therefore ask unanimous consent that copies of some of the more outstanding letters received by me commenting on my may 17 foreign trade statement on the floor be printed in the recon at the conclusion of my remarks.
madam president. i join my colleague from new york in looking into the situation with respect to the ferroalloy plant in buffalo. i shall consider the information which is being developed as most useful in that regard. somehow or other. we must find a balance between the responsibilities of international trade and the problems which it raises in terms of domestic employment. i shall. together with my colleague . address myself to this problem.
yes. the united states has taken a position in the gatt against vexatious internal regulations which discourage imports. i was coming to that argument in a moment. it has been pointed out in many international conferences that internal regulations can be put into effect which will materially inhibit imports. even though tariffs are  increased on them. and that imports can be discouraged fully as effectively as if the tariff were increased on them. to point out one of the really serious problems--and the testimony is in the record made before the committeeconsider the case of repackaging goods which are mixed. it is  merely goods which come from abroad which are repackaged. the goods which come from abroad are mixed with domestic goods. is it  just as unfair to an american manufacturer of goods which are mixed to label all the goods foreign. as  to label them at all. an american manufacturer. if he thinks people are that much in love with buying products made in the united statesand i believe many people feel that way. i feel that way about some countries in the world. in any case. if an american manufacturer believes there is great virtue in a product being clearly indicated as coming from the united states. and that it is entirely practical to label products "made in the united states"-many manufacturers see some virtue in thatthe important thing is that we weigh the various considerations and issues before us. there is. on the one hand. a tightening of the marking regulations. which means difficult administrative problems. and a disadvantageous foreign policy basis for the united states at a time like this. including a violation of an agreement we have with a friendly country. canada. on the other hand. we have the feeling that people ought to be told in the greatest detail. down to the last line. that a particular product originated abroad. that may influence their buying habits. taking these two questions side by side. in view of the fact that we have mentioned them as being decisive in this case. or important with respect to the marking of products. the disadvantages in terms of foreign policy and trade policy. the precedents that have developed against it. and the fact that president eisenhower vetoed a similar bill. far outweigh the advantages.
it is referred to in a letter from one of the government departments in regard to the bill as i understand it will be amended on the floor. it relates to a limited agreement with canada and is found on pages 6 and 7 of the record of the hearings with respect to the subject. it being a memorandum by the u.s. tariff commission relating to this particular section. and analyzing discussions pro and con. i refer the senator to the record of the hearing as being an explanation for my statement that it would represent what at least one government department considers to be a legal commitment. i use the word which the agency used: it is a legal commitment with respect to canada. i refer the senator from tennessee to that part of the hearing record.
the senator from illis. as always. was so persuasive in his arguments that one almost feels uncomfortable when one must marshal facts directly opposite his contention. however. that is the way the facts are. the bill is designed to restrict imports. in just so many words. the department of state says so in its report on the bill dated march 20. 1963. it says: we believe that the principal effect of this legislation would be to restrict imports. the department of commerce. in its testimony on the bill. at page 14 of the hearing. states: the department of commerce recommends that h.r. 2513  be enacted. the department is  aware that there has been any substantial demonstration of the need for extending marking requirements to the repackage of articles. i do  see how one could be much clearer than that. going back to the report of the department of state. we read: the burdens which the bill would impose are unnecessary since procedures  exist that offer relief in justifiable cases. it then goes on to describe the law which. as we have argued before. has the marking requirement with respect to goods that come into the country. and also the federal trade commission authority to proceed against any endeavor to misrepresent or deceive anybody who might seek to buy the goods. the senator from illis says that the bill would enforce itself. again. the facts are distinctly the other way. the report of the treasury department dated march 2. 1963. which appears on page 5 of the record of the hearings. reads as follows: the effective administration and enforcement of the provisions of this bill by the customs service would be extremely difficult. and. therefore. the department is opposed to the enactment of the bill. the activity which the bill seeks to control would  take place until after the imported article has been released by the customs service in the mal course of business and all physical control by customs has ceased. the identification of a repackaged article as an imported article. bearing in mind that it would probably have characteristics to distinguish it from a similar domestic article. would involve an extremely difficult investigative problem in cases where alleged violations were reported to customs. upon this limited question. and whether or  it would involve any violation of a legal commitment of the united states. waiting behind the vote on the motion to recommit there is an amendment to be proposed by the senator from washington . which. so far as i k. will very likely be accepted. it would omit from the exceptions green sawed lumber. that is exactly what the state department was talking about. incidentally. i have fault to find with what the senator from washington will propose. if there is to be a bill. he is entitled to argue that it should carry out exactly this intention. once the senate manifests its intention. the state department says expressly. following upon this limited exemption: it has been ed that the tariff commission recently held that the withdrawal of the countryoforigin marking requirement could  be regarded as a trade agreement. concession within the meaning of section 301(b) of the trade expansion act. as ed in the foregoing. however. the u.s. concession to canada is a legal commitment entered into in 1938 under the authority of the customs administrative act of 1938 and included in a trade agreement under the authority of the trade agreements act of 1934. accordingly the united states is  entitled to withdraw the concession from the trade agreement unilaterally. the aide memoire of the canadian government precisely designates the bill under consideration. h.r. 2513. i invite senators to read it. to sum up. this is a measure designed to stop up imports. it is a measure for which there is real call. according to the advice of the department of commerce. it is a measure that would be difficult to administer. which is the reason why the treasury department opposed it. it is a measure which would cause complications with canada. as we k from their aide memoire. because of an amendment to be proposed by the senator from washington. which will be offered on the heels of the vote on the motion to recommit. i close by saying to the senator from illis -i think he ks i mean every word of thatwho says he is deeply solicitous about the jobless in the united states and about industries in the united states. that i am. too. but i have $5 billion on the side of my argument as against his argument. because the exports of the united states in 1963 are expected to total $21.500 million. while the imports of the united states. $16.500 million. that is a pretty good margin. i  only want to keep that margin. i want to improve it. by this measure. we shall be loosening the structure which enables us to maintain our foreign trade position in the world. it is the straw that often breaks the camels back. in my view. a proposal as clear and evident an item of danger as this one would cause much mischief in the world. i think the senate would be very wise to reject it.
. i call to the attention of the senate an excellent critique of the administrations export expansion program which appeared in this mornings wall street journal. the article is critical of the effectiveness of the administrations present efforts on grounds that it lacks aim and direction and that it has failed to devise an effective incentive to our exporters. i believe the administration should respond on both counts. on may 27. i introduced a bill. s. 1614. calling for the creation of a national advisory council on export policy which would go a long way to remedy the lack of aim and direction in the governments export drive. the bill has bipartisan cosponsorship of leading members of the senate. among them senators
 of the bank. is a new yorker whom i have kn for many years both as a banker and a friend. he has done an extraordinary job with the bank. the fact that he is willing to carry on his work. even under some disadvantages. as will be the case with the law that he must  operate under. convinces me. if anything needed to convince me. of his dedication to the public service. i am confident he will do the best humanly possible with what is put in his hands. i am confident. too. that the confidence which the operations of the bank under his direction will engender in the congress will make it possible for him and for the insurance companies. banks. exporters. and others who do business with the bank to look forward with confidence. i am confident in my own heart that the congress will do whatever is required to see that the bank is able to do its job and to make its contribution to a material expansion of the american export trade.
i thank my colleagues in the senate for their meaningful and very helpful contributions. . having covered two subjects which relate to our problems in the field of the imbalance of international payments. i  wish to discuss my next subject. that is the question of what to do to help us with foreign trade. i would like to say a word about tariff barriers. here we face a rather odd situation. in that we are being hurt as much. at least. by tariff barriers as we are by tariff barriers in terms of expanding international trade. so i propose that we should undertake a major effort at the forthcoming general agreement on tariffs and trade negotiations to eliminate tariff barriers to trade. including discriminatory customs procedures and procedures for the issuance of import licenses. indirect discrimination against automobiles made in the united states. unfair health regulations. unfair dumping procedures. unfair types of laws. best kn as "buy american" laws. which endeavor to give domestically a preference outside tariff laws. and various regulations dealing with quality control and security. all of which restrain trade. i recognize the difficulty that such negotiations may involve. particularly with the european common market. the postwar grand design of western ecoic unity. in which britains entry into the common market was inseparably a part of an ecoically united europe. in close partnership with the united states. has come under severe attack as a result of general de gaulles veto of britains entry into the common market and his intransigence with regard to meaningful trade negotiations with the united states. the ecoic costs to the united states of an ecoically united europe are  becoming apparent as we are experiencing increasing competition with european goods in our markets and as our goods find it increasingly tough to compete with european manufactures in the markets of other countries. there are great advantages for us and the free world in the european common market. however. should we fail to obtain a general reduction of such tariff barriers maintained by the european ecoic community and a number of gatt countries. such as taxes and tax rebates. quotas. and tariff valuation procedures. as well as licensing procedures. special technical standards. and discriminatory ocean freight ratesthe latter being a subject recently discussed before the joint ecoic committeeit is certain that the forthcoming "kennedy round" of tariff negotiations will serve the cause of expanding u.s. exports little or  at all. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a series of articles from the journal of commerce of june 18. 19. and 20 and an article from the june issue of the oecd observer. the official publication of the organization for ecoic cooperation and development. showing the extent of tariff barriers to trade and their harmful effects.
. i believe we face againas we faced in connection with the restrictions on tourist expenditures and the restrictions on the flotation of capital issuesa situation of discrimination by many of our allies. for although they are giving export incentives to their own citizens. we are  giving export incentives to ours. incidentally. this is pointed out very clearly in an article written by rowland evans and robert ak entitled "inside reportan ecoic carrot." which was published yesterday in the washington post. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed at this point in the record.
i say to the senator that in the absence of any other standardexcept in the field of shortterm adjustments through the international monetary fund. and through the relationship which exists among the central banksthe senator is absolutely correct. in terms of international credit. that is true in the absence of any other basis for international credit than dollars. the pound sterling and gold. there are two schools of thought as to what we ought to do about gold. one school says that we should do what the british did in the blitz of 1942. when they sent an army division to th africa. in other words. we should take the $12 billion which we have tied to our currency and invite all the people of the world by saying "bring your dollars and we will pay for them in gold." and let that be the end of it. others say. "leave that $12 billion on lien." i believe we should do one of two things. we should "hit" the international balance of payments with many ad hoc measures. and cut it down. this is too serious even to deal with on the basis of longterm remedies. we must do something immediately. we can get at the problem through the promotion of tourism. the reduction of tariff barriers. tax incentives for exports. and we can do something in terms of foreign flotation of securities in the united states. and also toward attracting shortterm money. and so forth. the fundamental problem is the fact that the world has  adjusted to itself in terms of $200 billion of exportimport trade. the size of the national ecoies. and the fact that people will longer take suffering merely because the the bookkeepers are  doing a good job. that is what it really comes down to. the latter aspect is what i had hoped to emphasize so heavily in my speech. but to answer the senator directly as to why we are standing where we are. while the fever chart is operating on the basis of the old thermometer. namely. the gold we have. of course. the senator is absolutely correct.
the underlying difficulty of bringing about a general agreement on a common allied approach to eastwest trade. on the basis of current u.s. policy. and in the absence of meaningful commercial contacts with the soviet bloc. is therefore clear. the fact is that the soviet is getting about everything it wants commercially from the industrialized free world the only difference is that the united states is left out. our policy of export control is therefore largely frustrated. the central questions that we must answer in terms of advantages to the united states are as follows: does our selfinterest. as well as that of the soviet bloc. dictate the course i suggest. can a trade agreement be selfenforcing. like the nuclear test ban treaty. if we increase trade. will we be materially helping what we k to be the continued soviet aim to take over the world for communism. what are the advantages to be gained by the united states from increased trade if it can be negotiated satisfactorily. first. we k that our political contest with the soviet bloc will continue for a long time. it requires a great variety of instruments. procedures. and devices for affecting the course of events. as we stand . our commerce with the soviet bloc does  affect the course of events at all. the question is. if we enhance it. will we be able to somewhat better affect the course of events. i believe we will. the best example is the continuing influence of the german federal republic on events in east germany. because it does a trade of about a half a billion dollars a year with east germany. second. with u.s.-soviet trade on a more substantial scale our commercial interests in the soviet bloc would coincide with those of our western european and japanese allies. making possible an integrated policy on this question which would be of great value to the west. third. if the sovietbloc countries use more american designs. machinery and production patterns. they will rely upon the united states for future orders for replacements. spare parts or expanded facilities. all things being equal. they appear to prefer to come back to the original supplier for a new order. for many years the russians made it a practice to buy a plant and then copy it. but the russians today are buying plants and equipment in the west in commercial quantities. this is clearly evident from trade statistics of western europeansoviet trade. . i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the machinery and transport equipment exports of western europe compared with that of the united states be printed in the record at this point.
copying machinery is really a source of weakness to the soviet ecoy. it requires the allocation of scarce resources and manpower to produce the soviet equivalent of a western machine. and the soviets have found that while they are busily copying such machines. western firms are busy making improvements for next years models. fourth. too little is accomplished by preventing u.s. firms from doing business in agricultural and strategic goods with the soviet bloc. because other free world businesses have been supplying these very items for years. this does  necessarily mean that we should proceed with such trade. but it is a factor to be considered. a relaxation of u.s. export controls on agricultural products and strategic goods would tend to place the american businessman on a more equal footing with his competitors among the other free world industrial nations. while we negotiate persistently and on the whole effectively to get other countries to embargo strategiccocomitems to the soviet bloc. it is difficult to see how our national interest. under present conditions. is advanced by denying to the u.s.s.r. american strategic items when other industralized countries are selling the same items in full measure. again. i repeat. standing in and of itself. this would  be a reason for opening up further trade in agricultural products and strategic goods. but it is one of the reasons which must be considered. should our trade with the bloc reach sizable proportions. its benefits to domestic employment and to our balanceofpayments situation could be significant. . i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the great variety and quantity of goods traded between western europe and the european soviet bloc compared to that of the united states be printed at this point in the record.
 kennedy formally ified american industry today that almost the entire u.s. tariff list would be subject to major reductions in the forthcoming gatt negotiations. i am gratified that despite the setbacks caused by the eec rejection of british membership. the disagreements existing between the united states and the common market over how the forthcoming trade talks should be approached. over the question of u.s. poultry exports. and. over the disparities issue. the united states is proceeding. determined to conduct meaningful tariff reduction negotiations in 1964. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article. dated october 22. by edwin l. dale. jr.. entitled "kennedy says most tariffs on the list are negotiable." as well as two recent new york times articles by mr. dale. regarding the grave problems surrounding the forthcoming talks. be inserted in the record.
 on the trade agreements program which was recently transmitted to the congress. this report summarizes the progress that has been made in the field of liberalizing world trade in 1962 under the trade agreements extension act of 1958 and the trade expansion act of 1962. these tariff barriers inhibit trade as much as high tariffs. we acted on the question in the nato parliamentarians conference in paris. on which i shall report to the senate next week. in the meantime. i call attention to the need for undertaking negotiations in the countries of a general agreement on tariffs and trade. i wish to call attention particularly to the chapter entitled "tariff restrictions upon trade." a subject which was discussed during the 20th session of the contracting parties to the gatt and which i will again be the subject for negotiations at the forthcoming session of the gatt in geneva. i believe the elimination of tariff barriers should be a primary task of the forthcoming talks. since the need for many of the tariff restrictions imposed during the postwar year for balanceofpayments reasons have  disappeared. yet such restrictions still constitute a significant impediment to the expansion of world trade. the department of commerce has held extensive hearings with representatives of over 40 u.s. industries during the early part of 1963 in order to be in a position to k specifically which tariff barriers cause the biggest problems for our exports. there is increasing sentiment among leading industrialists that reducing tariff barriers could be as rewarding as persuading countries to give further tariff concessions. three types of european restrictions. internal taxes on top of high tariffs. high costbase methods of calculating ad valorem duties and taxes. and. discriminatory regulations against marketing. packing and advertising form the basis for most of the u.s. complaints. i believe that the united states could make a major contribution to liberalizing world trade during the forthcoming gatt negotiations by serious negotiation on tariff barriers. i ask unanimous consent that the chapter entitled "tariff restrictions upon trade" be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i was appointed by the committee to make a special inquiry into this matter. i did so. and at the end of 1961. i wrote a report on this subject. western europe has both export trade and import trade in excess of $5 billion with the soviet bloc countries. whereas. according to the present figures. u.s. firms do approximately $200 million worth of such business. furthermore. in connection with that research. consideration was also given to the trade with poland. and this brings up an interesting psychological point. as my colleague pointed out. they consider themselves written off. insofar as gomulko is concerned and insofar as yugoslavias alleged independence is concerned. what an awful price to pay. the senate has felt free to adopt various amendments to the foreign aid authorization bill. and those amendments are supported by many reasons which have accumulated over the years. however. this item has hing to do with foreign aid. it merely happens to be before the senate because this loose end needs to be tied up. our action in this connection is most important. because we could make a fatal mistakeone which the president is striving to avoid. and one which could greatly damage us irretrievably. because then khrushchev would realize that we were so stupid as to deny ourselves any chance of dislodging the communist control of these countries.
. s. 1614 calls for the creation of a national advisory council on export policy and operations. this council would. first. develop a unified export expansion policy for the united states. second. develop new ideas in the export field in order to improve the operations of the business community and the government in the promotion of u.s. exports. and third. raise the export promotion effort to a higher level of priority within the government. the bill has bipartisan cosponsorship in the senate. and is  before the commerce committee for action. i welcome the chambers endorsement of this bill. i believe present world conditions require that we continue to press forward for increasing coordination of free world ecoies and the reduction of barriers to trade. we should test out again whether the "buy american" policy does. as is claimed. seriously damage our foreign ecoic policy without really being of significant assistance either to our balanceofpayments deficit or our domestic ecoy. for example. since july 1962. the department of defense has been applying a 50percent differential. that is. requiring procurement of american supplies when the cost of american supplies does  exceed the cost of foreign supplies by more than 50 percenton a casebycase basis. the secretary of defense has never intended to determine in this way the foreign ecoic policy of the united states or to materially affect the negotiating position of the united states at the forthcoming worldwide talks. amendments to the antidumping act of 1921 should  be designed to further hamper the free flow of mutually advantageous international trade. our selfinterest requires that we  devote our best efforts to removal of tariff barriers to international trade. however. this does  mean that i oppose measures designed to protect ourselves against unethical international dumping or other trade practices. we must increase our exports for reasons of our balance of payments and therefore must work toward the removal of impediments to our goods trade abroad. we can enter the forthcoming trade negotiations pretending to be proponents of greater trade liberalization unless we are willing to commit ourselves to meaningful and reciprocal negotia.tions on all types of obstacles to tradetariff as well as tariff.
mr. lresident. the editorial very eloquently underscores my own longheld views on foreign trade policy. protectionism in any formwhether in the guise of unduly restrictive buy americantype legislation. tight quotas on residual fuel oil. a more restrictive antidumping law. or especially costly marketing requirements of imported goodsis against the best interests of the united states. we are about to embark on some very difficult trade negotiations. the first under the trade expansion act of 1962. the atmosphere of these negotiations has already been clouded. controversy and suspicion have been provoked. by illtimed restrictive actions on the part of the eeceuropean common marketand there are grave doubts as to the likelihood of any worthwhile accomplishments coming out of the forthcoming talks in the foreseeable future. further restrictive steps on our own part at this time would further endanger these crucial talks. . restrictions on steel imports proposed by the steelworkers and the steel industry are  in their own best interest either. restrictions on our part in turn engender restrictions abroad which would inevitably damage our exports. jobs. the ecoy. and the balance of payments of the united states. i am particularly impressed by the editorials argument that: the worst effect of protectionism and the one most injurious to employment is that it relieves the industry of responsibility for meeting competitive conditions as they really are. the strengthening of the competitive capability and performance of our own ecoy is the best solution to import competition as well as the meaningful expansion of exports. this means an early enactment of a substantial tax cut. the maintenance of price and wage stability at home. and the reduction of the cost of production through automation with just provision for the workers concerned.
i am grateful also to the senator from minnesota. fourth. a revision of current u.s. trade policies toward latin america will be necessary to make the alliance successful. we are firmly committed to help the ecoic and social development of latin america through the alliance. much of our ecoic assistance will be nullified unless we can assist latin america to broaden its markets in the united states and western europe. important u.s. restrictions continue to be maintained on temperate zone and tropical products exported by latin america. including restrictions on imports of beef. under the imported meat act of 1930. import quotas maintained on cotton and cotton textiles under section 22 of the agricultural adjustment act. quotas on lead and zinc set by a presidential proclamation under the trade agreements extension act of 1951. and quotas restrictions on imports of crude oil. unfinished petroleum oils. and some finished petroleum products set under the national security provisions of the trade agreements extension act of 1951. latin america is watching us to see whether we practice what we preach. i k that problems caused by import competition are grave for many industries in this country. but how much greater will they be if brazil or some other great segment of latin america "goes down the drain" precisely because we have  been ready to adjust our trade policies to the realities facing us in the hemisphere. i have said before. and i repeat again. that the whole of the ecoic assistance we give to any latin american country can be negated in an aftern by even a modest fall in the price of the main commodity sold by that country. the inability of latin american countries to sell their products in our market is equally damaging to them.
first. i believe the whole countryand certainly the senateshould be grateful to my colleague. the senator from missouri. for his presentations. so intelligent. so thoughtful. so provocative. and so original. i compliment the senator. i k that if millions of people could speak on the floor of this chamber they would speak as i do. i wish to make two points with my colleague. the senator from missouri. like our beloved friend. the senator from wisconsin. the senator ks that i also have addressed myself to these problems. the first point is. why are we agitated about the balance of payments. it is  that the united states does  have great resources. great productive power. or is  solvent. we are exercised because it is a "fever chart." the appraisal of the world is that we are  doing as well as we need to do to carry the load. either we must disengage from some of the load or we must do much better. as in export trade and other matters which produce dollars. the senator mentioned tourism. which costs us $1.5 billion a year.
. may 4. 1964. may go down in history as one of the most important dates in the long struggle toward the ecoic integration of the free world and the expansion of world trade. may 4 marked the formal opening of trade negotiations under the trade expansion act of 1962. when ministerial representatives of 62 gatt nations met in geneva. following their 2day meeting actual negotiations will be turned over to the technicians who will work out the details and problems over the next 18 months or more. the scope of the forthcoming talks is evident when they are compared to the most recent round of negotiations which were concluded in 1962. to obtain suitable concessions on less than 20 percent of its trade with negotiating partners. required that the united states be involved in 2 years of negotiations. the average concession was about 8 percent. during the coming talks. the united states is seeking a 50percent reciprocal reduction in duties on all but a handful of the u.s. tariff schedule items. about 80 percent of the worlds $150 billion annual trade volume may be affected. politically. the negotiations are also of great significance. successful trade talks could substantially reduce the chances of western europe splitting into two rival trade blocksthe eec and the sevencountry european free trade association and would provide a unique opportunity to create closer trade ties between the developing nations of latin america. asia. and africa. and the industrialized nations of the free world. the success of the forthcoming talks depends to a large extent on the extent to which the united states and the eectwo of the worlds principal trading groupsare able and willing to settle their differences over such key issues as the "disparities" questiona question involving the existence of a wide gap between the tariffs of two countries on a given industrial producttrade in agricultural products and tariff barriers to trade. an issue of equal importance to all gatt countries is whether or  to extend tariff preferences to developing nations and whether or  to extend tariff concessions agreed on to countries which abstain from the tariff cutting talks. the outcome of the forthcoming talks is of direct ecoic consequence to the united states. last year. u.s. exports totaled $21.9 billion. representing an increase of $1.4 billion over 1962. of this increase. $560 million was due to the rise in the sale of agricultural products. in 1963 exports to the eec alone totaled $3.9 billion or nearly onefifth of our total exports. close to onethird of these exports were in agricultural products. should the forthcoming negotiations fully succeed. the benefit to the u.s. in terms of our balance of payments. employment and income would be substantial. at these negotiations the united states should seek the attainment of the following objectives: first. the substantial reduction of tariffs on industrial and agricultural products. second. the lowering of tariff barriers to trade within the framework of an international convention to set uniform standards under gatt auspices. third. a full reappraisal of the mostfavorednation principle which binds all members of gatt to extend to all gatt members concessions made to any one of them. fourth. the resolution within the gatt framework of issues related to the deteriorating terms of trade of developing nations through such measures as the granting of tariff preferences for manufactured and semimanufactured products. commodity price stabilization through commodity agreements and the expanded use of the imfs compensatory financing scheme. and the tying of u.s. concessions to industrialized nations to concessions granted by these countries to the products of developing nations. fifth. the negotiation of a code of trade practices to govern the trade of gatt nations with the soviet blocs state trading enterprises. the fulfillment of these five basic objectives would constitute. in my view. a successful kennedy round and would represent a major step forward toward an ecoically stronger and healthier community of free nations. despite the obvious lack of enthusiasm of france for the forthcoming negotiations we should press for the most comprehensive negotiations attainable. the stakes are much too high for the free world to allow us to be dismayed by the intransigence of one nation. i ask unanimous consent that an article and an editorial from the new york times dated may 3 and may 4. respectively. and an article dated may 1 from the wall street journal. which suggest the implications and complexities of the forthcoming gatt trade negotiations. may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i want to call the attention of the senate to an article which appeared in the wall street journal of june 2 on the subject of tariff barriers to trade. the article carries the rather disturbing report that negotiations on this most crucial aspect of trade liberalization will receive little emphasis at this phase of the gatt trade negotiations for fear that the negotiations will be sidetracked from bargaining over tariffs. it would be an error of the firstf magnitude if the removal of tariff barriers would be relegated to secondary importance. as the article points out quite clearly such barriers could very well undercut whatever is accomplished in the field of the reduction of tariffs. that such obstacles to trade hurt our exports is without doubt. the article from this mornings wall street journal offers a great deal of evidence to that effect. such methods as import licenses and quotas. government procurement practices. protection of the markets of government moolies. various administrative regulations. certain valuation methods. marking and packaging requirements. national taxesthat is. the french system of taxing automobiles according to their horsepower rating which make the sale of u.s. cars in france practically impossiblerestrictions on advertising and health regulations are major impediments to trade expansion. they are practiced by us as well as many industrialized countries of gatt. they ought to be removed during the current round of trade negotiations. should we fail to do so the kennedy round of trade negotiations will serve the cause of expanding u.s. exports little or  at all. there is broad agreement among major u.s. national organizations concerned with the growth of international trade that there should be concerted efforts made at the gatt negotiations to eliminate those tariff barriers which inhibit the freer flow of trade. such was the position taken by the 50th national foreign trade convention in ember 1963. in a statement issued by the highly respected committee for ecoic development today the committee declared: we can expect to receive the full benefits of the trade expansion potential of tariff reduction unless we are able also to eliminate. or at least greatly reduce. actual or potential tariff trade barriers. the committee recommended: in the forthcoming trade negotiations the elimination of trade suppressing devices in violation of gatt rules should be regarded as a necessary part of any agreement upon general trade liberalization. this should be possible quickly. upon identification of the practices as illegal. there should be agreement to restrict generally accepted restraints upon trade to their rightful uses. we have in mind such restraints as quotas imposed to bring balanceofpayments difficulties under control. antidumping penalties and escape clauses. it seems to us that most tariff barrier problems could be solved by the time participants in the negotiations are ready to sign agreements upon tariff reduction. a few exceptionally complex and difficult cases of tariff protectionism would remain. and it should be agreed that work would continue until these problems are solved. to ferret out information regarding tariff barriers and their effects on trade the committee for ecoic development suggests the formation of task force committees of businessmen of the countries concerned. it calls for the development of general standards and codification of regulations governing labeling. classification of goods. health and safety to eliminate most of the trade distorting effects of these regulations. it also calls for an international agreement on a code for the technical regulation of trade and for a common definition of dumping and the working out of a method of applying that definition. the committee recommends that the convention thus arrived at should then be the basis for an international agreement imposing obligations on exporting nations to halt dumping when an impartial international body has determined that dumping is taking place. the constructive and imaginative approach taken by the committee is in clear contrast to the alleged attitude of the negotiators concerned with tariff barriers in geneva. i am in substantial agreement with the approach suggested by the committee. my own position stated on repeated occasions in the past is that much of the difficulty in dealing with the complications involved in negotiating on a wide variety of tariff barriers involving many countries could be overcome by approaching them through international agreements negotiated either country by country or according to type. i strongly urge those in our own government concerned with trade negotiations to give this approach their most careful consideration. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article from the wall street journal of june 2. entitled "free trade hurdles." a summary of the committees recommendations and excerpts dealing with the tariff barriers problem from the newly published statement of the committee for ecoic development. entitled "trade negotiations for a better free world ecoy."
. it is my intention promptly to ask the administrationi shall do so todaythat it state its policy upon the question so that the congress may be informed before. rather than after. action is taken. i ask to have printed at this point in my remarks an editorial from the washington post entitled "meat import mischief."
. this impatience with me is hardly matched by the limitless patience which is expended upon individual members and upon groups of members in this chamber. thank god for the fact that if i am recognized. i can still hold the floor or ask for a quorum or oppose the conference report. i was beginning to doubt. the arrows were falling all around me but did  quite reach me. although i was on my feet seeking recognition  less than five times. i thought perhaps that opposition would longer be permitted in the senate. that perhaps it had become unfashionable to oppose. i am a quiet fellow. a rather mild fellow. but if necessary i can speak for 23 hours. too. i am capable of it. i am physically able. i feel full of fight. i believe that i have as much on my mind as the senator from oregon or the senator from south carolina. who hold great records in the senate for long speeches. so. with all due deference to the majority leader. we are  going to get our business done by friday night anyhow. the senate could just as well be held up by a debate on the conference report on the beef imports bill. the fact is. i believe it to be a lot better cause than reapportionment. because it involves the pocketbooks of the american people to the tune of billions of dollars. from sitting in the chamber one would believe that we are running an export deficit and  an export surplus of over $6 billion. and one would  believe that even in the area of agricultural exports we are breaking all records. the senator from arkansas spentquite properlyall the time of the u.s. delegation to the nato parliamentaries conference. expressing his opposition to the fact that europeans dared to bar our chickens. we were insulted. what we were going to do about that subject would  be fit to write in a book. here we are establishing an elaborate scheme to bar the meat exports of our closest trading partners. this game can be played by two.  just by one. whatever the senator from colorado may say. the australian prime minister. mr. menzies has a tough case. we may like to put on a quota for beef. but he will put on a quota for airplanes and other things which americans export and live on. who buys this imported beef. the working people of new yorkand they have to earn a living. too. there is lots of room for opposition to this conference report. it is  nearly so hot as it is cooked. only one side of the case has been disclosed. since i have been in the senate. we generally alternate from side to side. thus far we have had the entire case of the plaintiff put in. so that the defendant has lots of time. i am in hurry whatever. as much as i love and respect the majority leader i will  be smothered. as i was smothered when this conference report came up.
 to raise tariffs. negotiate an international quota system. or provide federal assistance to those injured. or a combination of tariff or quota relief and federal assistance. these. plus the national security exemption. are the means to use political protectionism by special discrimination in favor of one ecoic bloc or aher. in our rapidly changing world. where new currents of powerecoic and politicalhave been unleashed all around us. the path of the protectionist seems so easy and logical to some at home. but it is a terribly dangerous one. only by harnessing these mighty new currents of power to the purposes of freedom. only by having the courage and foresight to meet them squarely in the great private enterprise tradition of our country. can we reach for the destiny of freemen. the united states. with the greatest ecoic power on earth. provides the best guarantee that freedom will prevail on this earth. the greatest catastrophe which could befall the world in terms of international trade. with incalculable effects on freedom everywhere. would be if we abdicated our position as the worlds leader in increasing international trade and freeing it from barriers and restrictions by slipping into a protectionist policy of our own. it is to avoid such a catastrophe. with its inevitable destructive retaliation from our nations trading partners and from the great regional trading organizations like the eec. that has caused me to sound this urgent warning. i am grateful to the senator from west virginia for facilitating my opportunity to make the statement i have made.
. what are we going to greet him with when he comes into office. are we going to greet him with an act against which he mustbecause he is a politician. tooretaliate. retaliation can be expensive in matters of this kind. it will be far more expensive to us than to mexico. because the whole foreign policy of this nation is pinioned upon the fact that it has an export surplus--approximately $6.5 billion a year. withstanding our difficulties in the international balance of payments. which at maximum runs to an adverse balance of $3 billion a year. if we did  have this big export surplus. we would be literally unable to maintain our armed forces. the diplomatic establishments. the aid programs. and the exchange programs which represent the essence of american foreign policy. this policy is built upon a practical and realistic base. that base is a $6.5 billion minimum trade surplus. it should be $9 billion in terms of the viability of the american financial system and american standing in the world. these little mouthfuls. this chipping away. will destroy that system and our standing. and will destroy the whole ecoic base upon which our country stands.
i am grateful to the senator from oregonfor his comments. . the present situation is a classic illustration of almost every facet of this whole trap. these small but meaningful moves toward protectionism and away from international trade are of the greatest importance to us. the u.s. export surplus indicated for the first several months of 1964 is $6 billion-$24 billion in exports and over $18 billion in imports. if we wish to sell. we must buy. if we buy from abroad and thereby create competition for domestic industrywhich is of critical importance. incidentally. to the consumer who should have that. too. in terms of a better price and qualitysomeone. somewhere. somehow. will be hurt. although it has been stated time and time again. it is still a fact that the automobile forced those manufacturers of horse carriages out of business who were  smart egh to turn to manufacturing automobile bodies. it is also a fact that the advent of radio had an effect upon the phoraph industry. i remember. when i was a boy. that the longhorned phoraph was a big seller. yet there were many manufacturers of longhorns for phoraphs who went broke. because they did  realize what was happening to their business. so that they could then turn to the manufacture of radio loudspeakers. or go into some other line of business. if the united states is in fact a private enterprise society. should it give a guarantee to everyone in business in this country. regardless of the effects of competition. that it will keep him in business and protect him against foreign competition. the committees amendment illustrates a classic defect in policy. the amendment will  work because. as the senator from california has pointed out. imports of the commodity in questionbrooms of broom cornarelet us say. 3 percent--of domestic production. if. in fact. our broom manufacturers are being hurt. they are  hurt by imports. what is hurting them perhaps is synthetic brooms. there is also the compassionate element to consider. i do  k whether it has been mentioned as yet in debate. because i was  in the chamber to listen to all of the speech by the senator from california . however. there are workshops for the blind in this country where brooms are made. with approximately 1.000 persons engaged in that activity. certainly. it is extremely vital and important in terms of our hearts and our spirits that these people should be encouraged to put their hands to some use. a heavy proportion of their output is sold to institutions. housewives. to state and federal agencies and are protected by various preferences in respect to such sales. it is doubtful that imports play an important part in the level of their sales. we shall hear those arguments. nevertheless without any question. it illustrates the classic technique in respect to protectionism: "because it is a special circumstance and affects people to whom our hearts go out. let us  be cruel senators. let us let this one ride." we are missing completely that what is at stake is the interest of the country. without which hing in the nation can stand upworkshops for the blind. or anything else. in every case involved in this protectionist problem. we can muster evidence of this character. if that is going to be the determination we sweep the whole reciprocal trade problem out of the window. what about the workers in the export industry. what about the millions of workers who create the $24 billion in exports that the united states has. are they to be discriminated against. are we to forget about those workers in our concern for the infinitely smaller number.
i call attention to the u.s. tariff commissions 1962 report on broom corn. which indicates a production in this country of approximately 2.5 million dozens in 1960. valued at $2614 million. the greatest concentration of broom factories. according to the tariff commission. is in illis. th carolina. pennsylvania. california. and texas. these are. generally speaking. the orders of magnitude which are involved. that is about the ambit of the situation. it is the basis for the figure of around 2 td 3 percent in imports. which figure has been referred to by the senator from california. i deeply feel that we are  dealing with a process which has a serious effect on the ecoic policy of the united states. i appreciate the very heart appealing program of the workshops for the blind. i deeply feel that the same ingenuity and the same generosityi myself. and many others are great supporters of these workshopsthat have brought about the particular type of work for the workshops will see to it that the workshops continue their effectiveness in terms of work for the individuals concerned. as i said before. a substantial proportion of broom making by the blind and those made by prisoners can in any case continue because it would involve state and federal institution purchases i feel that in our general appreciation of what is at stake. we must understand that the proposal is a step in a process. and we must  accept the argument that only a small sum of money is involved. a small order of magnitude. and one country. substantially. is involved. namely. mexico. therefore. why cavil or argue. let it ride and go on to the next order of business. i believe that the senate ought to decide to let the question go to a considered hearing so at least we may have the benefit of all the aspects of the problem which can be presented in a hearing. including. incidentally. the problem of workshops for the blind. we should  proceed to erode away the trade expansion structure. which we erected with such painstaking care. by small but very meaningful exceptions
. i believe that two things have been accomplished. first. the principles of imports have been sustained. the legislative history should show a roundedoff figure roughly between the imports for 1960 and 1961. in the same proportions as the two types of products are at present generally approved by the tariff commission. based upon generally existing experience. second. withstanding -my strong feelings on the question of trade. i have been somewhat moved myself by. the problem of the blind who work upon these things. although. i do  believe that has made any difference. the amendment. ordered to be printed in the record. is as follows: on page 33. strike out lines 4 through 11. and insert the following:
that is  the case. because it is a fact that many textilesthe overwhelming volume of textilesare made better and cheaper in the united states and to the greater satisfaction of the american consumer. actually. american electrical appliances are the most highly desired in the world. although they are somewhat higher in price. they are one of our best export commodities because of their quality. we are talking about sugar. which has been traditionally a large import commodity. i am arguing against breaking the balance which has existed for many years. what is sought to be done  is to shift that balance more to american production. that is what i am arguing against.
. senate passage of the bill to carry out the obligations of the united states under the international coffee agreement is vitally important to the success of our policies toward latin america. i say that because it is very clear from past experience that a sharp decline in the price of one commodity can wipe out in one aftern our combined efforts to raise standards of living in latin america through private and public investment. it is estimated. for example. that each decline of 1 cent per pound in the price of coffee means a loss of $70 million in the foreign exchange earnings of the 35 principal producing countries in latin america and elsewhere. such price declines have happened often in the past. the price of coffee has fallen about 42 percent within the last 5 or 6 years. amount of production can make up for that. the increasingly adverse terms of trade of primary producing countries are continually vitiating all the aid we can give them. therefore. the effort to stabilize their terms of trade is a remarkably fine contribution. both to international ecoic development and to the demands of the newly developing areas for ecoic stability. indeed. these countries demand hing less of us. and they have a right to demand hing less. this agreement is so great a contribution to international stability and international peace and to the anticommunist struggle. that we must wonder why it is opposed. i have read with the greatest of interest the views of my colleagues in the senate. i am sympathetic with their views. the proposal is opposed on the ground that to give price guarantees and to governmentally limit production is an ineffective solution to this problem. in fact. commodity agreements seem to work in reverse to the real purpose for which they are designed. the best evidence. it is claimed. is our domestic farm program. imperfect as this machinery is. it is etheless an effort in the international field to do what urgently must be done to deter erosion for the present. so that the forces of recovery. development. and diversification of the ecoies of these countries may be given a chance to get started. if we want to give developing countries an opportunity to get off the ground. in terms of development. we shall have to provide them with some kind of stoploss situationbecause the stabilization of the value of a basic commodity like coffee. in quite a few of those countries. is absolutely the determinant of whether the ecoy will be improving or will involve them in the gravest kind of difficulties. we must provide primary producing countries such relief in promoting trade as  to beggar them or to deprive them of the necessary political stability. so far as ecoics has a determining effect on their political stability. at one and the same time we should  allow the situation to become so embedded as to preclude any hope of industrialization or diversification or the ability to make a better future in their own development. the problem of commodity stabilization. as i see it. becomes one of mitigating random and cyclical fluctuations in the price of coffeeor any other primary commoditywithout interfering with whatever longterm trend would be established by free market forces. increased stability in export proceeds of developing primary producing countries could make a valuable contribution to their ability to make longrange development plans. i do  wish it to be said that i am  interested in consumers. but it is one thing to be for consumers. and aher thing to satisfy the needs of consumers by taking it out of the backs of producers. who are less well off. on the whole. than many of our consumers.
. secretary of commerce cons decision on february 14. 1965. to discontinue export controls on walnut logs was received by the principal users of this commodity with a great deal of indignation. i have received many telegrams during the past few days from new york furniture manufacturers. piamakers. plywood manufacturers. and veneer distributors protesting this decision of the secretary of commerce. they claim that in the absence of export controls our domestic supply of high quality walnut logs would diminish and its price rise inasmuch as walnut logs would be exported in increasing quantities in response to higher prices  prevailing by the furniture manufacturers of europe. secretary cons explanation for his decision is that domestic users failed to live up to a voluntary agreement limiting domestic consumption of logs. that export controls on this commodity have  operated as an effective domestic price control measure  did they show the hoped for results in conservation terms. and that these controls are detricxi202 mental to our balanceofpayments position. i have tried to analyze carefully the views expressed by these users. as well as the order of the secretary of commerce. and have come to the conclusion that what is required immediately. based on the position stated by the senator from indiana is a public hearing. where all views may be fully expressed. and that the decision of the secretary should be held in abeyance pending the hearings. once the hearings have been held. and the department and all parties at interest who desired to be heard had been heard. the department could restore its decision. if it still considered it was correct. i believe the demands for a public hearing are valid. and i desire to see such a hearing granted.
. is. quite briefly. to permit u.s. businessmen to take advantage of mal trade opportunities without fearing reprisals from foreign countries which attempt to interfere with this trade. it amends the export control act of 1949 to prohibit domestic exporters from taking any action. including the furnishing of information or the signing of agreements. in furtherance of restrictive trade practices or boycotts imposed by foreign countries against other foreign countries friendly to the united states. at a time when our national efforts are bent to promoting international peace through the fostering of trade and commerce between nations. it becomes all the more desirable to enact legislation such as the williamsjavits bill to further this end. this measure. too. would serve to stiffen the back of the state department in a situation where it needs stiffening. the appended article from this mornings new york herald tribune clearly details the issues at hand. i ask unanimous consent to have the articles printed in the record.
but the most significant of all the developments of this character was the decision taken by chancellor erhard in thename of the german people to recognize the state of israel and exchange diplomatic representatives with it. withstanding that israel is recognized by 94 nations and is maintaining diplomatic relations with 84. this action caused 10 arab states to break off diplomatic relations with the german federal republic in pursuance of their blind intransigence against the very existence of israel. the important thing here is that the chancellor reports that the german people have etheless regarded their action in recognizing israel with wellnigh universal satisfaction and approval and have  been dismayed or had any second thoughts about it. this has occurred despite the adverse reaction of certain arab stateswith the marked exception of tunisia. libya and moroccowhich refused to be stampeded. and maintained. to their credit. their diplomatic relations with the german federal republicor any loss or danger of loss of foreign trade which might result. the significance of these events. which are of historic importance to people of the united states. is their clear implication that it is the purpose of the almost 50 million people of west germany to remain firmly within the orbit of the atlantic community and to do their full share for the security and prosperity of that community and its efforts to secure peace and the accelerated ecoic development of the rest of the world. so long as the german people remain constant in this position. then matter what diversions or nettling objections president de gaulle allows to dissuade him from cooperation with the atlantic community. this community will remain viable. effective and essentially true to its purposes and objectives until that great day when france will again undertake her proper role of cooperation and leadership.
. whether we adopt this amendment. or . i wish to pay tribute to the statesmanship of the senator from illis. i am sorry he is  having his will worked. we shall be worse off than we were with the interest equalization tax. because this will be a complete bar. we are enmeshed in many contradictions. the dollar is the best currency in the world. everybody admits it. the international bank carries its reserves in dollars. so they must be dependable. we seem to get the jitters when we have a $2 billion to $4 billion imbalance in payments. when we have an international trade of $36 billion a year. the difficulty is that we have gone at this problem by looking at it through the wrong end of the telescope. we have been much too timid. we fool around with precipitate action which would compound the results of our timidity. i hope very muchi implore my friend. because i k his heart is very goodto let it go . because it will complicate an already very difficult situation and make it even worse. the senator from illis has given us an ideal way to deal with it on a much more permanent basis.
but is it  true that that does  deal with overall spending. in other words. if a tourist were  buying articles overseas. he could spend his dollars for food and drink. and other items. and the only way to ascertain whether anything was saved in the balance of payments is to determine whether the tourist spent less. my figures demonstrate that tourists did  spend less at all. on the contrary. they spent more. two million american tourists are overseas . i do  see how the senator can contend that we would save on our balance of payments unless he shows that overall. because of the reduction. tourists would spend less.
with the world so largely underdeveloped. and with these amounts relatively marginalin short. in a $44 billion export and import trade. we are talking about the fact that we need $4 billion more a year at the most in export surplus to eliminate our balanceofpayments deficit. with a $600plus billion ecoy. we are talking about a $44 billion exportimport trade. which is infinitesimal compared to the great powers in relationship to their own ecoies.
whether our involvement in vietnam will have an adverse effect on our balance of payments will depend on how much of what we buy we will be buying abroad. the senator asked me a question. which i should like to answer. the united states still has emous resources with which to defend the dollar. the position which the united states has taken so far has been out of fear that the dollar may  be defendable. when i say courage. i mean for example. our strength in investments abroad and our credit standing in the world. perhaps we can give the bankers a choice between being set adrift or sticking with the dollar and helping to prop it up. some time ago they put together a $6 billion fund almost overnight. or mighty fast. when that was needed in order to deal with the international situation. that is what i mean by courage. i am  counseling foolhardiness. i am counseling that those of us who are thoughtful and have the liberty of speaking freely. and are  hemmed in by the need of the administration. naturally. to be very circumspect about what is proposed. should be perfectly free in making our proposal. of the kind that i shall make and doubt others will make alsoand i intend to make mine next weekin order to bring us to realize that we have to do something affirmatively. and that it will take a little courage to do it. and with our backing it probably can be done.
s special representative for trade negotiations. is concerned. it is  one that he is willing to accept. i understand that there is aher way in which the matter might be compromised. i have  the remotest ion of what will happen to this provision in conference. i could . in good conscience. say that i will stand by and permit this amendment to be agreed to tonight without some study and consideration on what is being done here and whether there is any justification for what is being done. from what i can perceive. it is proposed to increase the duty from 12.5 percent on the big bulk of the items involved to 60 percent. even though we do  use the naughty words. "american selling price." that is a rather steep climb. there is an effort here to state. in effect. that the tariff on protective rubber footwear should be based on a naturalrubber basis rather than on a syntheticrubber basis. that is exactly what is sought at the present time. the explanation even makes that statement. the gods have a strange way to work their will around here. there have been occasions when i have been a party to the effort to do the proper thing correctly. however. i do  feel. in all fairness. in view of the fact that i can get any assurance that this is satisfactory to the administration. that we should proceed on this matter. the only assurance that i can get from the administration is that something else is the provision that the administration is willing to agree to. i hope that the matter will go over. i will do my best to clear the matter overnight. and with the short time limitation that we have. it can be settled tomorrow. i k that the senator from connecticut would never have agreed to the unanimousconsent request if he did  have some assurance that the amendment would be agreed to. king the manner in which we operate. i am sure that. if we can clear this proposition. a representation to that effect to the senate will result in giving the senator from connecticut all the time he would wish on his amendment. if he were to feel it necessary. because the arrangement which he thought he was making had  been carried through. i do  want to be the man to upset the plans. however. i want to take a look at this matter overnight and come back in the morning and dispose of it then. i fully recognize that the position of the senator from connecticut and the senator from indiana should  be prejudiced. if i can agree with the position of the senators. they can very easily override my position. however. if the question involves an element of time. i am sure that the majority leader will give them all the time they desire.
what the senator from florida has said is true. i want to be intellectually convinced of anything that may happen in the trade field. therefore. i said what i did to the senator from connecticut. i am  lashing at the state departments position. i may very well feel that this is a suitable compromise. i do  wish to have an amendment which may be heavily loaded against the import trade passed on a theory that. somehow or other. it may be worked out in conference. whereas i may  feel the same way about an amendment that represented a compromise already. leaving it to a concept to be adopted by the conference. all i want to do overnight is get in touch with the state department as to what they want. but i want to convince myself as to what should be done. if i am. i will be willing to agree to it.
i understand. i will start again. last night we discussed the question raised by the distinguished senator from connecticut. which is that the executive department. in his view. did  keep its word to him. king that. in a sense. he was speaking against interest. because he was himself a cabinet officer and a member of this administration. i feel that the senate should pay serious attention to that charge. i have since looked into it. and i think the senator had a right to feel as he did. i might  have felt the same way. i might have disagreed. but i can understand perfectly why the senator from connecticut felt as he did. egh had happened. in my judgment. to give him the feeling that he expressed yesterday. also overnight. i have looked into the merits of the situation. i believe. representing a constituency heavily weighted in favor the consumer. that i would have to oppose this amendment most vigorously. and which i believe bear directly upon the fact that there is a real question of protectionism involved in terms of prices to the consumer. quite apart from the merits or demerits of the administrations position as to how this action will affect its negotiations in the socalled kennedy round. which is. of course. in the special care of special representative herter. what affects me more than anything else is that i believe. from years of experience. that the senate is very likely. in delate on this subjectand it is very human and understandable that we can ask senators. even. to be less than human. to go off the merits. the substance. as it were. and. as we lawyers say. the procedure. and to be strongly moved by what i consider to be a legitimate complaint by the senator from connecticut and the senator from indiana as to how they have been used. i also find upon investigation that this is a complicated problem. let me indicate to the senate one of the areas of its complexity. this amendment would abolish american selling price valuation of protective footwear. entered under item 700.50 of the tariff schedules. and would substitute new rates on the usual valuation basis: 12 /2 percent for vinyl. 25 percent for low rubbers. and 60 percent for boots and galoshes. of these the important rate is the 60percent rate. since the boots and galoshes of synthetic rubber are the bulk of the imports under item 700.50. the debate on the senate floor late yesterday turned on the misunderstanding with respect to the administrations support for such an amendment. the real matter for consideration. of course. is whether such an amendment is proper. discussion of the merits of this proposal inevitably involves complexities much greater than have yet been referred to in the senate finance committee report or in the debate. these complexities are brought out  so much for the purpose of persuading the senate to take definitive action. as to show that this is much too complicated a subject to act upon sensibly as a part of h.r. it is certainly a good idea to abolish the american selling price valuation and substitute rates based on mal valuation methods that fairly reflect the actual protection accorded. it is good that there is general agreement on this principle. an actual weighted average f.o.b. rate for waterproof footwear under 700.50 would be very close to 121/2 percent. because this is the rate at which synthetic boots have been entering. the proposal  before us is defective. because. first. it takes for granted that the american selling price rate should be applied to synthetic rubber. second. it would establish a rate well above the present american selling price rate for india rubber footwear. third. it neglects an important area that equally needs attention. the american selling price valuation of rubbersoled footwear with fabric uppers under item 700.60 of the tariff schedules. first. the treasury ruling that synthetic boots are  subject to american selling price valuation was a carefully considered decision by high officials of treasury affirming the position personally approved by the commissioner of customs. if it was wrong. it could have been taken to court. but it never has been. the tariff commission followed that ruling in preparing the new tariff schedules. again after careful consideration. the views of the american industry were heard and considered by treasury and by the tariff commission. this is inadvertence that we are dealing with. after so little consideration. but a major and very complicated policy issue. the question really before us is the justification for extending the india rubber american selling price protection to new products. when the india rubber protection is based on a 1933 proclamation under the obsolete and repudiated equalization of cost of production provision of the tariff act. when there has been finding of injury or threat of injury to the domestic industry by any body. and when that industry is actually enjoying unprecedented sales. of course. synthetic and natural boots should be dealt with similarly for tariff purposes. we are all agreed about that. but a proper rate might well be closer to 121/2 percent than to 60 percent. second. to understand fully the objections to the 60percent rate. it must be understood that in administering american selling price valuation of footwear the appraisers have had a choice among various americanmade products. all of which are similar to the imported products. it was the practice for many years to take the highest prices quoted by established american manufacturers. rather than lower prices at which goods were being offered in volume competitively in the marketplace. importers objected violently to this method of administering american selling price and. finally. early in 1963. the commissioner of customs suspended american selling price valuation of footwear and instituted a review of the actual prices of the domestic products. results of this review have yet been anced. but it is well kn that the customs bureau has been expecting to propose new guidelines to appraisers that would instruct them to select articles considerably lower in price than the lastused price list. accordingly. the 60percent figure reflects a practice which has  been applied for 21/2 years and which almost certainly is way above the practice that will be followed when appraisement on the american selling price is resumed. obviously. it is also a reason why the fixing of an equivalent rate requires more careful study than has yet been given to it. in particular. it requires an opportunity to hear the views of interested parties. which has  yet been done. a further complexity that should be understood is that rubber footwear is on the final list of articles  valued under the customs simplification act of 1956. this complicates the customs bureaus task of selecting proper american selling price prices and has to be considered in a full review of the subject. abolition of american selling price valuation is certainly a desirable end in itself. but does  in the least justify an increase in the tariff protection already being given. i am glad that there is complete agreement in this body that american selling price should be abolished. but the question to be answered is the justification for continuinglet alone extendingsuch extraordinary protection for a prosperous and expanding american industry. if such protection had resulted from an escapeclause investigation. it would automatically have been reviewed periodically. but this protection involved finding of injury or threat of injury and the justification has  been reviewed since its inception 32 years ago.  has it become merged into the general tariff schedules. because other footwear is subject to ad valorem rates on f.o.b. values of 10 to 20 percent. and other rubber products. in general. take exactly the same 121/2 percent rate derived from paragraph 1537(b). but on the mal valuation basis. the effect of imports on the domestic industry was  germane to the 1933 proclamation and has  been examined by any competent body. it has been suggested here. and in the finance committee report. that that effect on the u.s. industry is serious. it is true that imports of rubber footwear have increased. at the same time. however. the rubber and plastic footwear sales of the domestic industry have increased pheenally. and so has employment. the value of shipments for the u.s. rubber footwear industrysic 3021increased steadily year by year from $50 million in 1938 to $229 million in 1958 to $352 million in 1963census bureau. shipments in 1964 exceeded 1963 in all categoriesdepartment of commerce. bdsa. employment has grown steadily from 18.000 in 1939 to 29.000 in 1963census bureau. bls reports growth for the same industry from 24.200 in 1961 to 27.300 in 1963. 27.500 in 1964. and 29.600 for the first 4 months of 1965. if comparison is made with the first 4 months of 1964. an increase is shown of more than 3.000 workers since the same period last year. we often speak of these tariff questions as if they involved only the interests of american producers and those involved in the import trade. however. they also deeply concern the american public. whose cost of living is vitally affected. i am advised that any significant increase in the present duties on these rubber products will destroy existing price lines. with imports unavailable. the poor. who chiefly buy the imports. would have to pay. on the average. $2 more for a pair of galoshes  available for $2.99. for instance. and a much greater increase on rubber bootsparticularly the kind used largely by farmers and workers. the situation today is that the need for lowpriced items is supplied almost entirely by the imports. we would  find them in the stores we buy in. but go to the poorer neighborhoods. and you will see that the imports often make the difference between having protective footwear against cold and wet. or  having it at all. these are complicated problems involving the question whether synthetic rubber shall be treated the same as natural rubber. there are strong arguments on both sides of the question. when we take into consideration the obsolescence of the proclamation of 1933 as the essential basis for the application of the formula which is contained in the amendment. and. on the other hand. the practices of the treasury department. which have been followed consistently for 21/2 years. upon which people have invested considerable sums of money going just the other way. and who. i think. would have come to this conclusion which i should like to express to my colleagues as. in my judgment. being the only way out of the dilemma.
. in my judgmentand i submit this as the view of one senatorunder the circumstances. the manager of the bill ought to take the amendment to conferenceand that should be a great satisfaction to the senator from connecticut and the senator from indiana. what they ought to do at the same time. however. is to assure senators like myself. who come from the great consumer states. and members of their own committees who had serious doubts about the problem. that they will. in a technical. really professional sense. inventory this question carefully in conference and endeavor to reach a solution which will be fair  only to the producerwhich i think this proposal will beit is more than fair to the producers. it is really a protectionist tariffbut realizing that there is a consumercompetitor factor.  only on the import question but on the consumer question. as to which the consumer is entitled to have the benefit. i hope we might have that assurance from the managers of the bill. because. in my judgment. considering the circumstances which we face as a practical situation. we could hash this problem out for hours and come to the same result. in my opinion. the senator from connecticut has a legitimate complaint considering what he was led to believe. but we come to the same result. there would be only an exacerbation of the debate. which would bring us to exactly the same point. i feel that the consumer interest. if we can get such an assurance from the managers of the bill. would be better protected in the way i have just suggested than in any other way.
let me say to the senator from ohio. who has a deep devotion to public service. that it is unlikely that the amendment will  affect the balance of payments. i believe that it will. to show the senator why: we have illusions about what the conference committee will do to the amendment if the amount involved is negligible. because then it would affect the balance of payments only negligibly. but as to the overall perspective. we do a vast amount of advertising business with canada in terms of canadian companies advertising in this country. therefore. other media could be clamoring for similar treatment. it would affect the balance of payments. if only appreciably. because our exports involve  only the export of goods. for which we get back dollars. but also exports of services. but i understand the dilemma of the senator from ohio. the amendment would go to committee. and with the understanding that the committee would approach this in conference as a matter of the first instance. because we really have  had an opportunity to consider it. i would have objection.
 to take the necessary action to convene an international conference for the purpose of concluding an international agreement harmonizing the antidumprig laws and procedures of other major trading nations. the resolution was introduced in the house by representative thomas curtis and was cosponsored by senators jordan and miller. i am pleased to e that the united states has  submitted a document to gatt in geneva looking into the possibility of drawing up an international antidumping code. i am also pleased to e that michael blumenthal. the ranking u.s. trade negotiator at the kennedy round. recently emphasized the need to harmonize national antidumping procedures urgently because of increasing pressures to use antidumping measures as an indirect trade barrier. private organizations both in the united states and internationally can and should play an effective role in rallying public support behind this effort. i very much hope that studies currently underway in biac and the international chamber of commerce will. in the near future. lead toward an endorsement of an international code on antidumping. the administrations action indicates that it has  decided to deal with tariff barriers in general and antidumping specifically as a vital aspect of the kennedy round. i have been much concerned heretofore that this problem will be glossed over during these negotiations for fear of adverse congressional reaction. the danger is great that international trade may be increasingly restricted by a multitude of tariff barriers as progress is being made in reducing tariffs. the present situation clearly calls for an international approach to the question of tariff barriers and specifically to the problem of antidumping. it is useless to work for the reduction of tariff barriers to trade if tariff protection is going to increase through such programs as national antidumping regulations. i am convinced that if our negotiators succeed in concluding an agreement which is fair to the united states as well as to our trading partners. congress will endorse it. i ask unanimous consent that the article entitled "united states submits paper on dumping code" from the january 27 issue of the journal of commerce. and a copy of senate resolution 133 be included in the record.
 can avoid a major congressional debate on the whole question of our eastwest trade policy by dealing with the issue piecemeal. he may in fact have to settle for less than what is needed and thereby put the united states in better position than it is today. i ask unanimous consent to have an article and an editorial from the new york times of may 4 be printed in the record. along with the text of the code of fair trade practices which i proposed.
 will talk with prime minister wilson about an alternative. the alternative could be some trade arrangement in the th atlantic between the united states. canada. and the united kingdom. and any other nationsespecially those in the european free trade association. in which britain is the principal factorwhich would be willing to adhere to a new trade arrangement. the principal aim being to work out substantially free trade among the members. perhaps over a longterm period of as much as 20 years.
interestingly egh. our debates are getting reported. although it may be a little delayed. however. people do digest them. i have iced that in respect to a number of recent matters. we are pinned on a dilemma. if we reduce our balance of payments by the drastic method we have discussed. then we will very materially hurt our security and the security of the world. if we fail to reduce the balance of payments. then the fellows who are going to try to drive us into an international crisis in an effort to balance our accounts will be hurt the most. and they k this. we must unilaterally move with our emous financial and ecoic power to help ourselves and seek to avoid the inevitability of the greek tragedy which is driving us toward an international balanceofpayments crisis. the ways in which we can help ourselves unilaterally are the ways by which we have to explore the situation. the unacceptable ways are the elimination of american tourism and the bringing back of our troops. the acceptable way is to utilize the power of the dollar for its world effect. we should obtain freeze agreements with everybody else in the world with respect to calling on gold and leave only the french to call on it. we would thus imperil them with the sterilization of the gold they have so all they could do with such gold would be to make gold teeth out of it. that is a tough method to pursue. but it is what we may have to do. that is the issue that i raise.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate insists upon its amendments to the bill . entitled "an act to require operators of ocean cruises by water between the united states. its possessions and territories. and foreign countries to file evidence of financial security and other information." disagreed to by the house. agrees to the conference asked by the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. bartlett. mr. magnuson. and mr. dominick to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate insists upon its amendments to the bill entitled "an act relating to the tariff treatment of articles assembled abroad of products of the united states." disagreed to by the house. agrees to the conference asked by the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. long of louisiana. mr. smathers. mr. anderson. mr. carlson. and mr. bennett to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate insists upon its amendments to the bill entitled "an act to adjust the status of cuban refugees to that of lawful permanent residents of the united states." disagreed to by the house. agrees to the conference asked by the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. mcclellan. mr. ervin. mr. kennedy of massachusetts. mr. dirksen. and mr. fong to be the conferees on the part of the senate.
madam president. i take this opportunity to express my support for the new initiatives taken by the president in his recent speech before the national conference of editorial writers in new york. i believe that if the soviets reciprocate in kind. the presidents initiative could lead to a significant lessening of eastwest tensions. madam president. i am particularly pleased with the presidents new initiative to reduce u.s. restrictions on trade with the eastern european countries and with his renewed pledge to press for early congressional action on his eastwest trade relations act which would give him authority to negotiate trade agreements which could extend the mostfavorednation tariff treatment to european communist countries. this is a matter on which i have worked for years as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nata parliamentarians conference to bring about a harmonization of the policy with the members of the nato alliance on eastwest trade. i am cosponsor of this bill. which in my view is one of the most important pieces of legislation before congress at the present time. i am very hopeful that the presidents new call for action on this bill will result in early action on it in congress. as opposition in the other body is what killed any consideration of the bill by congress soon after it was introduced in early may. if the momentum started by this new initiative is to be sustained. it should be followed through by the following specific steps: first. a highlevel u.s. business delegation should be dispatched immediately to east european capitals to ascertain specific trade opportunities that could be realized as a result of the presidents decision to ease u.s. export controls on hundreds of items assuming that congress will give the president authority to extend the mostfavorednation tariff treatment to these countries. the businessmen being sent should have previous experience in trading with east european countries as such transactions remain hazardous. they could be drawn from among businessmen who have participated in the business international moscow round table in ember 1964. i strongly believe in the effectiveness of private initiative in areas where government action is difficult because of political conditions. i have been personally involved in and organized two such efforts. one involving the  successful adela investment co. in latin america. and the other. the ongoing effort to increase closer ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey. i can vouch from personal experience of the great value and effectiveness of such efforts. second. the present atmosphere provides a good opportunity to bring about an agreement between the united states and the other principal trading nations of the free world harmonizing their approach to eastwest trade on the basis of a code of fair trade practices. i outlined such a code before the nato parliamentarians conference in 1964 and also in testimony before the senate foreign relations committee in early 1965. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this draft code may be printed at this point in the record.
 de gaulles main condition. the united kingdom may be called on. also. to accept the political and military consequences of an intimate european ecoic involvement. this may even mean shortterm difficulties in united kingdom relations with the united states. but. as one senator. i believe that our longrun interests will remain in accord. and will be greatly favored by the entry of britain into the common market. . if the united kingdom does these things and is still rejected. the responsibility for this rejection will lie squarely on france and also on the other five members in the eec. as much as i believe it is vital for britain to enter the common market. alternatives must be prepared. while i would  wish the united kingdom to embrace any alternative . and while i feel that the issue is so important that the united kingdom should take considerable time in attempting to join the eecunless ecoic pressures dictate its abbreviationi do  believe that the people of the united states ought to be considering the alternative they would be willing to embrace. because we can let britain get into a tremendous tailspin because she is rejected by the common market. in my view. this alternative should be for the industrialized nations of the communist world to form a free trade area involving a commitment for the gradual elimination of tariff barriers among themselves during the next 20 years. this arrangement would begin with the th atlantic nationsunited states. canada. and britainand such european free trade area countries as would be willing to join. and finally australia and new zealand as associate members. the aim of this free trade area would be to liberalize trade on industrialized products between the countries adhering to the free trade area by the end of this 20year period. membership would be open to all of western europe and associate membership could be offered to developing countries giving them the right of access to this market after a transitional period. i am fully cognizant of the difficulties in bringing into this free trade area the united states. with its great industrial power. and the other industrialized nations with lesser ecoic strength. i believe. however. that this problem is  insurmountable and ways can be found to lessen the competitive impact of such an arrangement either through making the tariff reduction process very gradual or by creating a multinational adjustment assistance fund or by delaying tariff reductions for those industrial commodities which would be most likely to suffer untoward injury from such an arrangement. i believe this alternative which i have suggested and which. incidentally. i have been campaigning for for sometime. should be carefully examined by the governments concerned and by interested private groups in the countries involved. i am confident that support for this alternative exists in the united states. the united kingdom. canada. and elsewhere and is growing. i emphasize. i propose it for the firm and deep consideration of the american people. i want to reemphasize that this propoposal is  designed to exclude the eec but is a positive attempt to deal with the contingency of aher british rejection by the six. the unavoidable point is that something must be done to help britain revitalize its ecoy. and benefit other industrialized nations at the same time. i would urge my own government to do everything possible to encourage and assist the united kingdom in this european policy. i feel we all hope that the six and the united kingdom recognize their obvious common interest in this matter and begin the process of making a west european community. including the united kingdom. a reality. should britain fail in this endeavor. i urge that the u.s. government and the people of the united states give careful consideration to the alternative i propose. and prepare themselves. if they think well of it. and put it in effect.
. for myself and the senator from new jersey . i submit a resolution to authorize a study by the committee on banking and currency with respect to the effectiveness of present law in protecting u.s. trade and business against restrictive trade practices or boycotts fostered or imposed by foreign countries against other nations friendly to the united states. since the congress in june 1965 enacted the williamsjavits antiboycott amendment to the export control act. there has been increasing evidence that large as well as small american businesses are still being adversely affected by these restrictive trade practices or boycotts. secretary of commerce john con reinforced this concern as to the effectiveness of the law in a report to me on the williamsjavits amendment in which he stated: to be fully responsive to your inquiry. i should state that an underlying purpose of the amendmentthat of eliminating or markedly reducing the effect on united states firms of certain restrictive practices and boycottshas  been achieved to any appreciable degree. secretary cons report underlines the need for a congressional study on the effectiveness of the present law with a view toward determining what further is needed to protect u.s. businesses and trade against the adverse effects of these boycotts and restrictive trade practices. particularly affected are american companies threatened by the arab boycott against israel. this includes  only such industrial giants as ford. cocacola. rca. zenith. and sears. but small businesses as well seeking to carry american trade and commerce to all corners of the world. in a detailed report last october. the new york times indicated that "the arab boycott of israel. in effect 15 years. is posing its most striking challenge to american industry." american industry must be bolstered in its resistance to this or any similar such boycott or trade restriction. successful intimidation of u.s. industry by the arab nations could well encourage others to undertake a similar challenge. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the letter of october 3. 1966. addressed to me from secretary of commerce john con. concerning the williamsjavits antiboycott amendment to the export control act. and the new york times article of october 17. 1966. entitled "arab boycott challenging major u.s. corporations."
. i think that the senate has manifested its clear desire to deal substantively with this matter and has indicated its disposition to approve it. as i said when i raised the. matter and made the motion to table. i haveintention to impede the proponents of the amendment in their progress if a ma-. jority felt prepared to vote for it. i did . because i thought it was too important and had too many ramiflcations. quite apart from its own merits. to justify senate action on it . i should like to repeat very briefly these points. because senators may wish to consider them in respect to voting on the substantive question. the points are briefly. as follows: first. there have been hearings on this particular amendment. second. there has been opinion on it by any government department. third. as we all k. it is  particularly relevant to this bill. therefore. some crisis or emergency must be shown. e has been shown. beyond the assertion that one exists. finally. the amendment affects the consumers of the united states. the proponent of the amendment says it may have some impact on prices. namely. that there will be a price increase. he does  consider it would be a material increase. but that is a matter of judgment. i do  k. i doubt if anyone does. it will result in a material reduction in imports. by onethird. and the proponent of the amendment says so. finally. a crucial stage in negotiations. the socalled kennedy round. hinges upon the matter of agricultural duties and import quotas. in my judgment. it seems improvident for the senate to vote on this matter on this bill with such insufficient information and with opinion from our negotiators as to what it means. and especially with crisis having been shown. but which has merely been asserted. it seems to me most ill advised to sail into this thing at this time. but. obviously. the senate has put the bit into its teeth at this time. i wish to say. in closing. that the idea that this is just some pleasantry. that it is just tacking it on to a bill from which all the amendments will be stripped in conference. personally is  very flattering for the senate of the united states. it is very demeaning. i assume. whenever a senator votes. he does so with conviction and determination to do everything he can to make law out of an affirmative vote he has cast for a particular measure. as i obviously am unacquainted with the merits of this measure. i shall be constrained to vote against it. if i had the remotest opportunity to dig deeply into the merits and get the views of officials which are essential on this measure. i might very well vote yea. however. i must vote nay in good conscience. which i shall accordingly do.
s authority to conclude international agreements. subject to congressional approval. i very much hope that before we condemn our negotiators for concluding such agreements we will carefully assess the benefits as well as the possible injury that these agreements may result in for the american ecoy. let us remember. for example. that the united states sells more than $2 billion of chemicals abroad annuallythree times as much as it imports. and. most importantly. let us  forget that most american consumers stand to benefit substantially from these negotiations. it is very important that we begin to plan at once about the future of u.s. trade policy and what steps this country should take to continue world trade liberalization. i believe a careful look should be given to the adjustment assistance provisions of the trade expansion act. this provision should be liberalized to make possible effective federal assistance to industries that may be hurt over the next 5 years as a result of tariff concessions made in the kennedy round. i also believe that further negotiations should be undertaken for the reciprocal removal of remaining tariff barriers such as sanitary regulations and methods of valuing imports for customs purposes. also. the industrialized nations must take effective action to improve the deteriorating trade positions of developing countries. it makes little sense to provide billions of dollars of development assistance to these countries and then make it difficult and sometimes impossible for them to export these manufactured and semimanufactured products that result from a higher level of development. i very much hope that before american industry. agriculture. and members of congress condemn the results of these negotiations. they carefully evaluate the net effect of these negotiations for them and for the u.s. ecoy. i ask unanimous consent that several articles from todays new york times and the wall street journal on this subject be printed at the conclusion of my remarks.
 of the chase manhattan bank. on the subject of future u.s. trade policy. the joint ecoic committee on that day concluded 6 days of hearings on this subject. during which it heard from some of the most outstanding government. business. and academic leaders in the country. the chairman of the subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy of the joint ecoic committee. representative hale bogos. deserves to be commended for organizing these hearings. mr. rockefellers testimony will be most valuable to the committees consideration and recommendations regarding future u.s. trade policy. i call particular attention to mr. rockefellers suggestion that the united states reconsider its attitude toward the feasibility of regional free trade organizations in which the united states itself would be a member. specifically. a canadianunited states free trade area. an arrangement which in time might include great britain. mexico. and other countries. for some time i have favored a careful examination of such a free trade area. and i am a member of a committee which is  doing just that. i am very much pleased that mr. rockefeller. based on independent evidence available to him. has come to a position similar to mine on this question. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the rzcoan the statement given by mr. rockefeller before the joint subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy.
 to try to clear up certain misconceptions of fact which should definitely be cleared up. first and foremost. because i think the senator from arkansas was very fair about the interest rate. which he said was adjusted to a new york bank rate. that in itself is great reason for recommending this program. because the rates would be in competition with very high rates in many underdeveloped countries. but i think the impact on the balance of payments is the important problem. as i stated before the extended risk guarantee program has balance of payments effect. if anything. it has an affirmative impact. in our favor. because it deals substantially with procurement fully tied to the united states. and the expendituresall investment expenditures which are encouraged by this loanas a matter of fact. must be expended in this country.
. on august 23 i made an extensive statement in support of the international antidumping code. i had riot realized that today senator hartke would make a. further statement on the antidumping code. otherwise. i would have been prepared to make a fairly full reply to his remarks. however. preliminarily i wish.to make some brief comments on the points which i would like to elaborate at a later time. a reading of senator hartkes comments suggests that he is making perhaps five or six major points. first. he states rather categorically that there is basis for an appeal to the courts by a domestic industry on the question of the consistency of the antidumping code with the antidumping act. in fact. to my kledge there has never been a court decision on this question. moreover. i see reason why section 516(a) of the tariff act of 1930 would  provide a basis for appeal by domestic industry in a case where. in its judgment. compliance with the code had erroneously lead to the imposition of dumping duties. second. senator hartke quarrels with my statement concerning protectionism in relation to the antidumping act. my basic point has and continues to be that the antidumping act like any other piece of legislation in the trade field is susceptible to being applied in a manner contrary to a liberal trade policy. indeed. the main value of the code lies in the fact that. consistent with the act. the united states and the other major trading countries of the world have agreed to impose antidumping duties consistent with a liberal trade policy. third. senator hartke comes to the conclusion that the phrase "the major cause" in the trade expansion act is syymous with the term "the principal cause" in the antidumping code. in fact. the tariff commission decisions. as well as the term itself. establish the ion of the cause greater than all other causes. i see reason why the "principal cause" can be that cause greater than any other significant cause. there is a very considerable difference between the two. fourth. senator hartke challenges the ion of "material injury" in the code and goes into the legislative history of the antidumping act. he fails to e that the ways and means committee was explicitly told that the ion of "material injury" would continue to be used by the tariff commission. senator hartke also failed to mention that the tariff commission has indeed consistently used the concept "material injury." and moreover. it has done so with explicit reference to article 6 of the gatt. fifth. with respect to the concept of industry. senator hartke points to several tariff commission decisions which he says are inconsistent with the code. i submit that the question is  the consistency of the code with prior tariff commission decisions but with the act itself. indeed. the tariff commission decisions themselves do  have that degree of consistency which would suggest a series of decisions having the force of law. granted that the code does delimit the discretion of the tariff commission. my point is that the standards that the code establishes are both reasonable and consistent with the act. sixth. with respect to the question of simultaneity. senator hartke says that it is quite clear that the treasury department. contrary to statutory law. is planning to abide by this code. hortatory or . senator hartke provides evidence for this rather startling pointa point which i believe is inconsistent with the position. publicly and consistently taken by secretary fowler.
. the current import quota hearings of the senate finance committee have engendered nationwide. even worldwide interest. during the committees 3 days of hearings the pros or cons of existing u.s. trade policy have been and will be debated. the hearings which started out to consider four or five quota proposals have become a much more important battlegroundbetween those supporting our current trade policies which have been emously beneficial to this country and those who would have us believe that a policy of retaliation and counterretaliation would be more profitable. i testified before the senate finance committee this morning because i wished to reaffirm my position. that on balance. the interests of new york and the country lie in the continuation of existing u.s. trade policy. in view of the loud protestations of those who are demanding quotas. i think the senate and the country should be aware of the fact that there are major domestic corporations who are greatly concerned about these proposed quotas as well as the committee for national trade policy and various importer groups. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my testimony as well as a series of wires sent to me today by these corporations and groups be printed in the record.
i gather that the senator is  urging a complete removal of the u.s. tariff structure insofar as we do retain tariffs and do have the tariff commission hearings relating to findings of fact or serious injury. the national defense safeguards. and the other safeguards in our law through which we have made emous progress as evidenced from the kennedy round and the general reduction of tariffs in the world. the senator is  trying to make a case for the complete dismantling of that structure.
. the senator ks that the united states runs a substantially affirmative trade balance. we export merchandise which exceeds in value the merchandise that we import by between $4 and $5 billion a year. does the senator regard it as a fair statement to. say also that we do runas the senator ks. and as we all ka very affirmative balance in terms of the return on our investments abroadroughly in the area of $5 billion to $6 billion a year. and does the senator feel that the pattern of such investments would be materially and adversely affected by a protectionist position which the united states would assume if it were to adopt a quota system such as we have discussed.
finally. i should like to ask this of the senator: many nettling tariff barriers to trade continue in effect in certain countries which are important trading partners for us. there are road taxes. for example. which are expressly operated so that they actually discriminate against american automobile exports. will the senator give his opinion as to whether he believes we can do more or less in dealing with those tariff barriers by legislating in these quotas. or. does he believe it is likely to work in reverse. and if we put these quotas into effect. we will find it even more difficult and we will get many more tariff barriers than we  have.
i thank the senator. may i ask the senator from illis this question. following the very interesting colloquy he just had with the senator from iowa: is it  true that if the argument of the senator from iowa prevailed. the senator from iowa would have a particular part of the national ecoy seeking to retrade many aspects of a multilateral deal made between the united states and many other countries. he would have an excellent case for a particular product. but are we willing also to retrade that for the whole range of manufactured products which come under the kennedy round. and to undo everything that has been done there. simply because we are worried or concerned about problems affecting the meat industry or the dairy industry. my state happens to be a bigger state than the state of the senator from iowa in terms of dairying. new york would feel it very keenly. too. considering everything else involved in this situation. one other question: is it  true that we have an emous export trade in agricultural products. it may  happen to be in the dairy business. but we do have an emous surplus of agricultural products for export from the united states. are we  faced with a problem in which we shall have to say to individual interests: "surely. we understand your situation. we will do our utmost to cope with it". that is why we have the adjustment assistance idea. that is why we are spending $5 billion to support agriculture in this country. i think much of it is necessary. but we have simply got to look at all our trade and make business deals on a multilateral basis. if we can. that does  mean we have to give up on agriculture. we had a pretty big fight on chickens in the foreign market. and we got results. bul we can do that on every product. because we do  have everything to trade
 of the bankers association for foreign trade a telegram in opposition to the current drive in congress for import quotas. this association is composed of 133 u.s. banks located in all parts of the united states. in view of the importance of this organization and its expert kledge of international trade. its opposition to the protectionist drive should be carefully heeded by congress and the industries pressing for quotas. i ask unanimous consent that mr. klemperers telegram be printed in the record.
. i invite the attention of the senate to a movement which is underway in our country. which is a reply to the broad move in congress to deal with quotas as an element in the foreign trade of the united states and the argument on the other side. with which i stand. it is summed up in the formation of a prestigious "emergency committee for american trade" with some of the leading businessmen of the country represented on it. in this mornings new york times there appeared an advertisement anncing the formation of a prestigious "emergency committee for american trade" composed of the heads of some of the largest corporations of the united states. this ad which appears today in three major newspapers across the country warns against the tremendous consequences of protectionism. it warns against possible retaliation against american exports. it calls attention to the tremendous cost that protectionism will impose on the american consumers. and its cost to american industry in terms of reduced efficiency and lower productivity. together with the effort  being organized by the committee for national trade policy to form a national coalition of associations and business firms in support of liberal trade policy. this effort is designed to show congress and the american people the grave consequences of massive reversal of u.s. trade policy through the imposition of quotas on a wide range of vitally important commodities in international trade. i highly commend these publicspirited business leaders for undertaking this effort on behalf of the best interests of this country. on october 31 in a speech i made to the national foreign trade council in new york. i specifically called upon american business and labor and interested civic organizations to mount a concerted effort in opposition to the protectionist drive in congress and to form an ad hoc emergency coalition for u.s. trade policy. on ember 9. i met with 11 organization representatives of about 100 such organizations that could be counted upon to join this fight. among the organizations present as reported in the files were the committee for national trade policy. the american importers association. the national retail merchants association. the league of women voters. the national grange. the united auto workers. the general federation of womens clubs. the national farmers union. the american institute for imported steel. the american farm bureau federation. and the committee for ecoic development. the committee for national trade policy has undertaken to form a national coalition on international trade policy. i strongly commend arthur k. watson. chairman of this emergency committee. and the committee for national trade policy for undertaking these efforts. i ask unanimous consent that the advertisement in todays new york times. an article reporting the formation of this committee from the new york times of ember 16. a new york times editorial of ember 2. my october 31 speech to the national foreign trade council. and certain additional newspaper articles be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i have received telegrams from distinguished american representatives of the interests of american consumers opposing protectionism in the form of textile import quotas. i ask unanimous consent to have these telegrams printed at this point in the record.
may i suggest that it might be best to change the word "licensed" to "permitted." so that it refers to "names and locations of plants permitted to import into the united states." because otherwise the amendment might raise a serious question. and if there is licensing scheme which is kn at the time we adopt the amendment. we either assume one exists or we create one. if that is  our intention. let us  put it into the law.
then. that is correct. the senator from nebraska is always reasonable and hoable in his approach. i would like to ask the senator from new mexico whether. in his judgment. this amendment carries out the intent to be an implementation of the scheme of regulation contained in the law and will  be in fact some form of dealing with an import quota or any limitation of a tariff character. rather than a real sanitary regulation.
i have one further question for the manager of the bill. i e that the bill. as to most of its provisions. is to take effect within 60 days after its passage. would the senator from new mexico be willing to assure the senate that if it is found that the adaptations necessary to comply with this paragraph concerning requirements of foreign producers. can be carried out within that period without prejudicing materially the import policy of the country or adversely affecting producers. consideration will be given to the question of time for phasing in. we are dealing a little bit in the dark here. because we do  have the industry views on the matter. there might be a problem in bringing this into being without destroying or disrupting what is going on . the danger which i should like to point out to the senator. which concerns me. involves the kennedy round. which. as we all k. is a large and very delicate undertaking. i should  wish us to suddenly pass something which could imperil that effort. the senator will find out about that when he goes to conference: at least let us have the understanding that we are agreeable to an open view on the question of phasing in of what may be required under this amendment. should that be indicated by the policy of the country.
i feel that way. too. and i thank the senator. i might point out that this is  idle speculation on my part. there is a big problem here between the consumers interests and the processors interests. of fairness and equity as well as reciprocity in terms of what we do in the world. one will fight harder than i against these monkeyshines of tariff barriers. in my judgment. the best posture for us to fight them elsewhere is to try to avoid them as much as possible ourselves. so for both reasonsfirst. because the consumer has a burning interest in imports which tend to give him an element of competition in this country in respect to price. service. quality. and so forth. and second. because of the tremendous web of international trade which is involved in meat. a very important commodity. i am glad we have had this colloquy. i am obliged to the senator from nebraska for making the modification in the amendment. and i am reassured as to the way in which this matter is  to be handled.
 before the finance committee on october 18 to state the countrys case against the quotas. a national effort is  being organizedin which i have had a paxtby the committee for national trade policy to form the national coalition for international trade policy. this is to be composed of at least 100 national organizations such as the league of women voters. the committee for national trade policy. the national grange. the national retail merchants association. and so forth. this coalition should be fully organized by early next year. i also invite attention to the formation of the emergency committee for american trade on ember 17 under the leadership of arthur k. watson. chairman of the ibm world trade corporation. and composed of a most eminent group of business leaders across the country. i understand there is also an effort under way by 1.200 members of various regional export expansion committees across the country to take up the struggle in defense of u.s. trade policy and in opposition to protectionism. this struggle will continue in 1968 and will be intensified as a result of its being an election year. it will be important that the administration submit to the congress early next session a trade bill which would  only provide for certain "housekeeping" authority but would also liberalize the adjustment assistance provisions of the trade expansion act. these provisions have been practically ierative thus far due to the great difficulty under which injury can be proven to the tariff commission. i believe these provisions should be eased while retaining the tariff commissions role in this field. as i proposed in my testimony before the finance committee on october 19 and before the national foreign trade council on october 31. i believe that there is also a need for action by the federal government to attack the basic causes of obsolescence in american industry either directly through a new federally financed modernization fund or through federal guarantees of commercial bank loans or private investments that would lead to significant modernization programs in industries threatened by intensive foreign competition. in addition. a renewed effort should be made to eliminate government policies or programs which contributeas was the case with "twoprice cotton"-to difficulties of certain industries facing foreign competition. i intend to submit specific proposals in these areas when trade legislation is proposed early next year. i ask unanimous consent that an excellent editorial entitled "preparing for the main bout." published in todays journal of commerce. be printed in the record.
there is question about that. we really got into the squeeze of the international balance of payments in a very aggravated way when we lost our grip on the export market to some extent. it is amazingand the senator has heard my views on this matter many timesthat with an $850 billion ecoy. there is etheless a $6.8 billion export surplus which has represented the difference apparently in the eyes of the people of the world who hold instruments of credit from the united states as to whether we were really going to favor our international commitments. when our export surplus began. to go to pieces. that apparently was the final stroke. it was the $3 billion diminution which has literally occurred within the past year. which has been so very costly to us. even if one could say that the senator from south carolina had a good case under mal conditions. one could almost as a lawyer introduce a demurrer to it on the ground that we should  do it . i deeply believe that the case would  stand up in that context.
. in view of the controversy in congress regarding u.s. participation in the sovietfiat automobile plant deal. i call the attention of the senate to a decision made on april 19 by the u.s. department of commerce to issue a license to export gearmaking machinery. valued at $8.9 million. purchased by flat. an italian firm. for use in that plant. the secretary of commerce in a letter dated april 19 informed me that his decision to approve this license was based on a finding as required by the export control act that the equipment could be sold abroad without detriment to our national security and welfare. i believe that the commerce departments decision was a prudent one and within u.s. policy to develop further eastwest trade in strategic goods. specifically. the department of commerce concluded thatfirst. this system of gearmaking machinery is  likely to be used for other than the civilian purpose of producing components of fiat passenger automobiles. second. comparable equipment is available abroad in switzerland and west germany. denial of this application will  prevent the flatu.s.s.r. plant from being built and tooled. it would mean loss of the business to u.s. firms. third. the equipment to be licensed does  contain extractable techogy of strategic significance that is otherwise  available to the soviets. fourth. production of these machines will  disrupt current or planned future defense priority orders for machine tools of similar types. earlier this year congress. in extending the life of the exportimport bank. prohibited the bank from financing u.s. exports to eastern european countries. congress did . however. prohibit u.s. commercial participation in the fiat project. as i stated during senate debate on this measure in august 1967. it is clear that the senates prohibition did  constitute a generalized and universalized finding against eastwest trade. i ask unanimous consent that the letter of the secretary of commerce dated april 19. 1968. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 under the provisions of section 7 of the trade agreements extension act of 1951. as amended. domestic mink growers will have a full opportunity to make the case for quotas at open hearings on trade and tariff problems on june 4. to be heldby the ways and means committee. because the tariff commissions report has such an important bearing on the claim that imports have harmed this u.s. industry. i urge my colleagues to review this report carefully.
. i am pleased to invite the attention of the senate to a resolution which was recently introduced in the michigan legislature expressing opposition to import quotas. calling on congress to liberalize the adjustment assistance provisions of the trade expansion act. and urging congress to support all efforts to remove all tariff barriers at home and abroad. i commend the authors. senators bursly. chairman of the michigan state committee on international commerce: stamm. hart. youngblood. bouwsma. and brown for this action and hope that other state legislators will take similar action. i ask unanimous consent to have the resolution printed in the record.
i meant that the senator might wish to reply.  i was  aware of the fact that it was the senator from vermont who sponsored this move in the foreign relations committee i think he bears some affection for me. and i k he would  bear it were he  sure that i always follow my conscience and would  be overweaned by the fact that someone whom i consider so highlyi was going to use a much stronger word. which might embarrass himshould have sponsored this particular move. with all respect this is a salient example of that point. when one says generically that american business concerns make egh money so that they can make their own investment surveys. that is  correct. a great many business concerns do. but a great many do . indeed. the foreign trade of the united states is handled by only 5 percent of american business concerns. one of the great things the department of commerce has been trying to do is to broaden the base of foreign investors. to get more concerns and enterprises interested.  to confine it to the general electrics. general motors. and ibms. who are growing bigger and bigger every day. i am  objecting to that. but i am pointing out a fact with respect to the business interests of this country. the very appeal of this program is that it enables aid to get smaller enterprises. which are  in the field. into this area of private investment overseas. which always couples with it a great deal of gifted technical assistance. that is why the smaller firm is so desirable in this field. the surveys in which aid has participated. which are partially assured under this program. have resulted in investments in fertilizer. bananas. hybrid seed corn. bricks. the production of dairy products. hand tools. and kraft paper. among other projects. i ask unanimous consent that a list of the projects in which these surveys have aided be printed in the record at this point.
. if the distinguished senator from louisiana. who is presenting the report. would be kind egh. i wish he would answer one or two questions for me concerning the administration of the antidumping act. i have read the conference compromise. i was interested in one point made in the statement of the senator. as the senator ks. i have a different point of view with respect to this matter than perhaps he or some other senators might have. however. we have here a compromise. there is one thing in the statement that i would like to get clear as to its implication. if i recall. and i tried to listen very closely. the seantor said that the tariff commissioners shall exercise the same discretion they have heretofore exercised. of course. if the senator is talking about his understanding of what they are doing. that is one thing. because if they have exercised discretion. then they may exercise such discretion again. if. on the other hand. there is some effort by the statement to the senate to restrict the tariff commissioners in aher waynamely. that they will make the same decisions they have made in the past in the exercise of their discretionthen we may be adding something or subtracting something from the settlement compromise between the house and the senate which is  contained in that settlement.
i have one other question. the thing i am  clear on. from the senators explanation. from the fact that the members of the commission apparently were kledgeable on what was being considered. is this: if they retained their discretion as members of the tariff commission. under the provisions of title ii. then i am satisfied. on the other hand. if they have made any commitment that they will be bound by their rulings in the pastthey have discretion as to those. they have discretion only as to rulings they have  madethis does  say that. i do  want something imported into the conference report that is  here. i am willing to stand on that as it is.
. foremost among the great blessings we enjoy as americans is the presence on our borders and on frontdoor islands of nations and territories all for the most part close friends and wellwishers. among them the rapidly developing west indian states whose history and culture are closely related to that of the united states of america. a recent west indian development of great significance is the coming together of the areas political leadership for the formation of an ecoic union under the heading of "carifta"-caribbean free trade association. with a combined population of over 4 million peaceloving. ambitious and energetic citizens. these west indies islands are destined to become a strategically important ally and factor in our total "good neighbor policy" concept and the policy of the good partner. the new york times on tuesday. february 4. published a fullpage advertisement of expo 69 scheduled for opening on april 5 in the island of grenada. all of the member nations of carifta will be participatingantigua. barbados. dominica. grenada. guyana. jamaica. montserrat. st. kitts. st. lucia. st. vincent. trinidad. and tobago among them. grenada and its premier. eric m. gairy. are to be congratulated for vision and foresight in arranging for and hosting this first international fair in the caribbean.
 of american surveys international of washington. d.c.. at the luncheon meeting of the international executives association during its annual meeting in new york city the previous day. it made reference to the results of a survey of association members on the type of changes that this organization. comprised principally of businessmen engaged in export operations. deemed of most importance with respect to u.s. government policy and programs in this vital area of our foreign ecoic policy. of 12 choices provided on the questionnaire. the respondents expressed the view that exports from this country could be benefited best by providing assistance in the following four categories: first. tax treatment comparable with foreign competitors. second. vigorous tariff barrier removal. third. fairer export freight rates. and fourth. better export financing. following these first four categories. eight more were ranked in the order of preference: fifth. guarantees/insurance program strengthening. sixth. more tariff lowering abroad. seventh. more practical aid regulations. ninth. a tie between expanded market development programs and realistic export controls. tenth. more effective trade attaches. eleventh. enlarged containerization support. and twelfth. more market research. because of the importance of these findings and the relevant observations on some likely future developments presented by mr. rosenbloom. i asked him to provide me with a copy of an anated text of his remarks. i recommend mr. rosenblooms speech to the attention of senators and to those government officials and businessmen who are involved with international trade matters. i believe that his presentationwith its survey of needed changes in export policy and programs by the government. the evaluation of these findings and developments to be anticipated in this areais an excellent delineation which will prove of value in advancing a better understanding of the benefits to be derived from foreign trade. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the address and the report on it. published in the journal of commerce. be printed in the record.
. has genuine free trade been in effect. first. mr. gilbert is a man of outstand- mr. gilbert readily ackledged that ing qualifications. one of the most dis- as a spokesman for various organizations. tinguished americans who could be ap- and for the committee for a national pointed in this field. he is a most desir- trade policy in particular. he had advoable man for the united states to enlist cated freer trade among the many exin its services in this very critically im- porting and importing nations of the portant position. world. freer trade. as he described it at second. because of his assurance of that time was essentially an antiijectivity and his profound awareness flationary measure. for where genuine of the problems. particularly of the tex- competition exists. industries will make tile industry in terms of trade and tariff every effort to reduce prices and improve barriers. which he has explained to the the quality of their goods. committees of the foreign relations and but mr. gilbert also emphasized in finance. which have caused them to re- his testimony that his commitment to port him out favorably. freer trade was neither ideological  third. because he is right  in a irrevocable. first of all. he stressed that conference of critical responsibility and his previous arguments had been made great delicacy in which his confirmation as an advocate. in the fullest legal sense will be of materially beneficial effect to of the term. in his own words: the united states. i urge the senate to my entire life has been spent either as a confirm this ination. lawyer presenting my clients views in the
. on behalf of the senator from utah . i ask unanimous consent that. at the next printing. the name of the senator from connecticut be added as a cosponsor of s. 2168. to amend the tariff schedules of the united states with respect to the rate of duty on whole skins of mink.
i understand. and when the other senators who have been handling the bill and vigorously arguing about amendments that are one onehundredth as important as this one was before the senate. they sort of smiled and said. "well. fellows have plants that closed in their districts. and we have to give them a chance to blow off some steam"-everybody king in his heart that this will probably never get anywhere. even if it is adopted by the senateand it is very likely to. on the rolicall vote. this is a strange aaly about our country. we all k that some "big daddy" somewhere will protect the interests of the nation. and. by the skin of teeth. i suppose that "big daddy" has always appeared. but we are  going. to do it on this one. i have pretensions to heroism in this matter. but i am sustained by one thing. and it is - little sentimental. there was a senator in this body who occupied precisely the role that i do. his name was paul douglas. of illis. one of the proudest names this nation has ever k. he is still with us. thank the lord. i take great courage and great inspiration from the fact that i saw him on this floor  once or twice or three times. as perhaps i would. but time and time again. with the greatest virtuousity. with deep kledge and insight. with great patience and understanding. address himself to precisely the very hardy perennial we are discussing today. that is the essential tariff policy of the united states. the essence of this amendment is really this: shall we tack onto a tax reform bill. already staggering under a load of many improvidences. a superimprovidence. which is  only an improvidence but also is  relevant to the bill at all. shall we. in a few hours of debate in the night. deal with the foreign policy of the united states and the trade policy of the united states which has had weeks and weeks and years and months of consideration. and about which the president of the united states has just. in a very considered way. sent us a trade messageto which the senator from south carolina referredof ember 18. and shall we in this way shortcircuit congress. that is exactly what it would mean. we can give the president the authority. but that is all the authority we have. this is a very sweeping amendment. an amendment could be offered. and a twothirds vote could be obtained. to amend the constitution and eliminate the first 10 amendments. and the senate can do that  only at 7:10. but if the senate is in session. it could do it at 11 p.m. or at 12 midnight. and it might be passed if senators are tired egh or do  k what they are doing. that is the way a democracy can hangby the skin of its teeth. fortunately. that does  happen. whether i win or lose. we will k what it is about and what it does and how it affects the interests of the united states. we are asked to deprive congress of all tariff writing and tariff changing authority and turn it over to the president. that is the whole essence of the amendment. and  only that but on definitions which radicallyand i usb that word advisedly and i shall explain it further laterdiffer from the definitions we have in a most considered way passed in congress. we are asked to do itand i do  complain about it. that is our business and we all do what we feel has to be doneon the very threshold of what may be the breakup of world trade through a tremendous trade war which is very incipient in this situation. the president or anyone else who is deeply immersed in the field will tell you that the entire world trade situation right  is in great jeopardy. i am the last one to try to please the japanese or the european common market. i spoke on the floor of the senate the other day about the fact that they themselves are guilty of the gravest kind of protectionism and barriers to trade. that they were mindless of the best interests of the world. in a trading sense. i made recommendations as to what we could do about it. and the president has addressed himself to the matter. but to throw this kind of measure. as the considered judgment of the senate. into the balance will do only one thing. i must tell you that honestly and sincerely as a senate man. it will discredit the senate. it is  going to change the situation or anything that happens but it will discredit the senate because you are going to do improvidently and precipitately. without regard to an understanding of what is at stake. what the law is on the books already. and how to change it. what should be done in a most deliberate and considered way. maybe we will come to these considerations as a result of the new trade act that must be written. because the old one has expired. maybe the world will make the united states go protectionist. the world may be so obtuse and bullheaded that it will make us go protectionist. it would be a tremendous source of grief to me. but it is possible. and the very instruments we thought would free and liberalize trade may be turned against freedom of trade. but we are  going to invoke that thoughtlessly. and if we are going to do it. we are going to do it with dignity. deliberation. and the workmanship that is worthy of the senate.
 will  use it. why are we going through these charades if it is a document emblazened before all the world that the united states is going to pursue a protectionist course. i am a lawyer. i think i am a pretty good lawyer. there are other good lawyers in this chamber. i ask my lawyer friends to look at this amendment. what does the word "disrupt" mean. the amendment uses the phrase "disrupt the domestic market." what does that mean. we have had many volumes written about what is serious injury to domestic enterprise. this is a new word. the word. "disrupt." i beg any lawyer in the chamber to define it. the amendment states. "disrupt the domestic market or is causing injury to industries. firms. or workers in the united states." does it mean any injury by place or places. or products. or lines of commodities. then. we go to the next page and we see the language: the foreign country producing such commodity is imposing restrictionswhat kind of restrictions. are they sanitary laws. i ask the senate the meaning of the word "restrictions." what are its perimeters. up and down. does anybody k. then. the amendment states "by means of quotas. import licenses. tariffs. taxes. or otherwise." i wish to ask senators who are lawyers if they are going to pass this measure. it states: the foreign country producing such commodity is imposing restrictions (by means of quotas. import licenses. tariffs. taxes. or otherwise). . going on from there one senator said awhile ago they are going to run workers out of their jobs. as i understand the foreign trade of the united states. fortunately for us it is about on balance. we have $30 billion in exports and about $30 billion in imports. what about those fellows who deal in exports. are they bums. are they  entitled to be considered. what about all the consumers in this country who are buying these shoes. if they are cheaper and better. that is their right. is this a oneway street. we are longer the paramount ecoic power on earth. the european common market does a much bigger import and export business than we and they are only six countries. the most viable country in the world is the united states. but that is my judgment. many people disagree with me. they think japan and germany are at least if  better able ecoically to stand the strain of modern competition.
i do  agree. we limited the right to raise taxes up 50 percent and that is circumscribed by conditions under which hearings must be held and findings of fact must be made by the tariff commission. this measure has such provision. the tariff commission act--which i would like to read because i think it is importantgives the president the very broad authority. but it is authority which has been defined and considered to the extent that congress felt in all good conscience and judgment it should be limited. i should like to read to the senate the provision of the law on this particular subject. first. we look at the authority of section 301 which provides under b: on request. the president. upon resolution of either the committee on finance of the senate or the committee on ways and means of the house of representatives. upon its own motion. or upon filing a petition under subsection (a). the tariff commission shall promptly make an investigation to determine whether as a result in major part of concessions granted under trade agreement an article is being imported into the united states in such increased quantity as to cause or threaten to cause serious injuryi beg the senate to e those words "serious injury"to the domestic industry producing -an article which is like or directly competitive with the imported article.  then. there is the very comprehensive procedure by which the commission is required to inquire into this matter and to make a finding of fact. if one can be made appropriately. and then the power of the president becomes the followingi beg the senate to e that this is  mandatory. either. this is also permissive authority. the power of the presidenti  read from section 351-
i k of e whatever. i am grateful to the senator from wisconsin for his gracious statement about me. i should like to point out to him that the president has asked for a new test altogether different from the one that is in the trade act . and different from the one contained in senator cottons amendment. the president says in his message: i recommend the liberalization of the escape clause to provide. for industries adversely affected by import competition. a test that will be simple and clear: relief should be available whenever increased imports are the primary cause of actual or potential serious injury. i shall read that again: relief should be available whenever increased imports of a primary cause of actual or potential serious injury.  i should like to read what senator cottons amendment says: (2) the foreign country producing such commodity is imposing restrictions (by means of quotas. import licenses. tariffs. taxes. or otherwise) against the importation into such foreign country of articles produced in the united states. the key comparison is on page 1 in lines 7 through 10 of the cotton amendment which states: (1) the importation of any commodity from a foreign country is at such levels so as to disrupt the domestic market or is causing injury to industries. firms. or workers in the united states. and i can see the remotest relationship or comparison. except for the use of the one word "injury." between this definition and the presidents requested definition. or the definition of the trade adjustment act which reads: the president may proclaim such increase in or the imposition of any duty or other import restriction on the article causing or threatening to cause serious injury could do anything he pleases. if one uses the word "disrupt" literally. everyone disrupts. a tariff disrupts. any regulation disrupts. the united states. under section 22 of the agriculture adjustment act is disrupting in all commodities in which it imposes quotas. i can read the list. in addition i do  understand this situation. our farmers  have $2.6 billion worth of exports a year. we are complaining against the common market and say they are messing up the world because they want to turn protectionist. here we give them an open invitation. i do  understand it. the farm bloc is supposed to understand the farmer. i do  understand anything like this.
 i am grateful to the senator from wisconsin for pointing out the export surplus proposition. in 1966 we had an export surplus of $3.786 billion. in 1967. $4.083 billion. in 1968. $1.1 billion. for 1969. the indications are that. withstanding the disagreement which we have had. we will have an export surplus of $889 million. as a matter of fact. it is expected that we will again resume the export surplus status which has essentially sustained the ecoic policy of the united states throughout the years. to the senator from south carolina
yes. but that has hing whatever to do with the guarantee program. the hickenlooper amendment is an effort to make -the president of the united states do something about something he may think to be inimical to the interests of the united states. i voted against iti do  k about the senator from arkansas. but i believe he may have voted against it. tooon policy grounds.  because it had anything to do with investment guarantees. to continue. . it is precisely because of this that this proposal is before the senate . because the whole world is changing. and. whereas. in a world which was beaten up by war. our merchandise exports produced a major surplus.  the whole world is catching up with us in competition. japan and germany are the outstanding examples in merchandise exports. there is use kking our head against a brick wall. indeed. we are doing pretty well and still maintaining nearly a billion dollars in surplus exports over imports. we must find new ways. and one is increasing overseas private investment flows. it is the thing that is saving our balance of payments . when we are realizing a surplus of interest and profits payments over what is going out in overseas private investments. it is the one way to buck up our exports. maurice stans will tell you that the greatest way to improve american exports is by exports which go to american manufacturing plants abroad. because they have a relationship to their american counterparts. and so forth. in addition. exports. as the british have shown for three centuries. are  just hard or soft goods. exports are also in techogy and in management. there are the things overseas private investment contributes to.
 will have this study on shoe imports on his desk in the very near future. if it is  already there. i do  believe that the political ramifications of the textile problem exceed that of shoe imports: have  approximately 400 congressmen and senators made their wishes kn on shoes. in making this recommendation. i must e that as our ecoy slows down and as the inflation is stemmed. our balance on the trade account improves. our surplus on the trade account has improved over the past year. and it probably will show further improvement in 1970. if we restrict any import without reference to injury criteria. i think that we would be leaving ourselves wide open to retaliation. and the areas in which we are vulnerable to retaliation are many. such as agricultural exports. to name only one. my visit to japan reaffirmed by conviction that the world is at a dangerous crossroads with respect to world trade. protectionist forces have gained strength in the united states to the point where the whole u.s. trading posture of the postwar period is being called into question. protectionist forces within the european common market are as strong as in the united states. and within japan itselfthe third major free world trading entityentrenched protectionist forces continue effectively to resist meaningful loosening of foreign investment and manufacturing restraints. in my judgment. 1970 is likely to be a watershed year which determines whether international trade continues to increase with the momentum that characterized the 1960s or falls prey to the parochial protectionist forces in the united states. europe. and japan that are derived from the defects and imbalances which accompanied the expansion of the 1960s. this is a broad theme of critical significance which i intend to pursue. i wish to underscore one vital aspect of the broader trading question. i have doubt but that the success of nixons guam doctrine. and the security of communist asia which depends on the success of that doctrine. will be determined in a major way by the degree of success we have in resolving the very real problems that have come to the fore in our trade relationship with japan. these problems will require statesmanship of the highest order if they are to be resolved in a creative and mutually reinforcing way. however. if we and the japanese allow ourselves to be trapped and overwhelmed by these problems. a heavy price will be paid by both countries. as well as by the asian nations whose security depends on our joint development efforts. exhirt 1
s trade bill which will have a profound effect upon our trade relations for years to come. and it will affect. too. the administrations proposal for a generalized preferences scheme with the lessdeveloped countries that has . as of yet. been sent to the congress. a solution to the textile problem could contribute immeasurably to more harmonious relations internationally and to the prospects of successful passage of this important legislation at home. japanese textile interests should be under illusion that the u.s. congress if it becomes convinced of japanese immovability on this matter. can and probably will pass quota legislation on textiles--whether or  desirable. the american textile industry and the labor unions involved in the manufacture of textile products and apparel. on the other hand. used to be fully cognizant of the difficulty of passing legislation that would offer to the textile industry. alone. we have been warned of a "christmas tree" of protectionist amendments to the trade bill. and there is certainly evidence of pressure for special protection from other industries which are alleged to be suffering from a similar sudden impact of competition from imports. such a movement could bring on a trade war and set back the worlds ecoy by decades. i think my credentials in this entitle me to speak. as i have been on the side of liberal trade for over 20 years. all the time that i have been in public life. i remain convinced that a mutually satisfactory compromise remains practicableparticularly if the counsel of the "wise men" in the united states and japan prevails on this issue. and let us  overlook the fact that there are many groups on both sides of the pacific who today are working for just such a compromise. but i am concerned that their wisdom and counsel may  prevail as hardening of positions continue to be buttressed by the continuing deadlock. time. in this instance. is  on the side of reasonand a reasonable settlement. when i reviewed the situation last february 10. i concluded that "as the japanese have been delinquent in recognizing that trade must be a twoway street where one side should  enjoy a $1 billionplus surplus. perhaps u.s. negotiators have  sufficiently realized that negotiations to be fruitful must also encompass give and take." more than a month has passed and what has happened since is  encouraging.  i find the japanese aide memoire of march 9. 1970. unfortunatethe text of the aide memoire is said to have appeared in the japanese press. and earlier this week parts of it were quoted in a senate speech. united states and japan almost as soon as it was delivered. this diplomatic e has caused much disappointment and yes. even chagrin. in the united states. it reportedly is said to contain formidable language declaring that the government of japan can implement export restraints solely on a selective basis. for those items which are subject to serious or threat of serious injury caused by increased imports. and upon obtaining the consent of the domestic industries concerned in japan and also of other major exporting countries. the tone of the reported e leads me to the conclusion that the next move on this complicated chess board  rests with japan. i have previously stated that i hold brief for japans rigidity in the fields of tariff barriers to trade and liberalization of capital investment there. this same rigidity should  carry the day on the textile question. during my visit to tokyo. i stated clearly that by maintaining such restrictive policies in the tariff barrier and investment area. japan was jeopardizing the whole world trading pattern. today. the stakes in the textile issue are even greater since they involve united statesjapanese political relations as well. if japan does  move  and make a serious counteroffer. i am concerned that with the passage of time. the chances of a compromise solution will be gravely diminished. and for those in the united states who are playing the game of all or hing. it seems clear that japan will  liberalize if the effort is made to demand only a rigid comprehensive quota system. it also seems clear that the world would read and regard such a step as a shift toward protectionism on the part of the united states. this would strengthen the challenge of protectionism throughout the worldthe same challenge shown by those attempting to maintain the common agricultural policy of the european common market on its present disruptive course. the time is  ripe for the responsible political leaders in the united states and japan who must make the overall determination as to the national interest of their countries. as distinct from regional or special interests. actively to involve themselves in this issue and to make a textile agreement. i call on both governments to avoid perpetuating a meaningless semantic impasse and move to the practical and pragmatic task of hammering out an agreement before our time runs out. the hot line between japan and washington should be activated. and it is up to japans leadership to make or authorize the next call.
 nixon and prime minister sato all the more urgent. if they do  "bite the bullet" and settle this matter  on the highest level a trade war may soon be upon us. i urge them to do this to avoid what would otherwise be a very dire situation. i ask unanimous consent that newspaper accounts relating to the rejection of the kendall proposal by the united states and japanese textile industries and the press release of the atmi on this matter be printed in the record. as well as the perceptive and disturbing article which appeared in saturdays washington post entitled "textile battle arouses japan against united states."
. on february 26. the acting assistant secretary for congressional relations of the department of state wrote to me and other members of congress summarizing the status of the u.s. tariff preferences proposal designed to grant generalized tariff preferences for all developing countries including latin america. earlier. i had conferred with under secretary samuels and other responsible officials of the state department regarding the administrations thinking on this subject. the state departments briefing paper of february 26 did  address itself to some of the questions that have been troubling me. as a result. i requested the state department to provide additional information particularly as it relates to the ecoic value of the american proposal to the developing world. the state department has  responded to my inquiry and i believe that members of congress will be interested in this reply. i ask unanimous consent that the state departments letter of april 15 to me and its earlier briefing paper of february 28 be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed as part of my remarks a speech on the u.s. tariff policy delivered by me at the 49th annual luncheon of the american importers association in new york. the speech is entitled "americas trade challenge for the 1970s: resisting protectionism."
s f america. the action plan of vina del mar. resolution rem1/70 of the eighth special meeting of the iaeco soc ..... and fundamentally in the charter of the organization of american states which has been ratified by the united states government. and the application of protectionist measures would be in violation of the standstill commitment and would represent retrogression in the treatment of latin american exports in the united states market. since latin american has only recently begun to market in the united states some of the products subject to the proposed restrictions. the latin american countries of the oas. in expressing their concern to the u.s. government. e that the protectionist measures  before the congress "would constitute new tariff and tariff barriers whose effect and magnitude with respect to the trade of the latin american countries would be incalculable and would involve a violation of commitments assumed by the united states in interamerican and international forums."
. the argument was made with respect to japan that it had a big balance of payments and that they would go protectionist. if the world went protectionist. we would be the biggest sufferers. we are the biggest outfit on the street and have traditionally enjoyed a substantial trade surplus. the peace and security of the world is heavily premised upon our financial security. we can jeopardize it by an illadvised trade policy.
 of the united states will handle wisely the matter  in his hands respecting shoesand i am sure he willfortified by the findings of the tariff commission. which give him freedom of action to give them some relief. because many of us have thought that the case for shoes was much stronger than the case for manmade textiles. and the tariff commission bore that outi hope. and this is very important. the japanese having decided that to pick up the mills suggestion. that they will do what people ought to do when they decide to do a statesmanlike act: be generous about it. they k what will be acceptable to the american textile industry. or should be. better than anyone else. and better than we do. they also k how important it is to have some administrative mechanism such as i have suggested. so if they make their unilateral proposal for voluntary restraint in the real fullness of their hearts and experience. it will work. but if they are going to be cute about it. it is  going to work. i think this appeal that we are making today is premised upon those two concepts. that both will happen. and i have every reason to believe they will. but i think it is necessary to say it.
. you will be taking bread from the mouths of babes to make guns. and how. i hope very much it never happens when i am around. if i can help to keep it from happening i will do my utmost in cooperation with my colleagues to see that it does  happen. my attention has just been called to the fact that leaders of all the developing nations. the very people who are the objects of this kind of help. are meeting today in lima. peru. to determine how they are going to react to the u.s. 10percent import surcharge as well as map strategy for unctad iii which will take place in the spring of next year. there is a tremendous firmup in the world going on right  over what we felt we simply have to do in respect to the very difficult situation ecoically in our country. i beg any member thinking about his vote to contemplate how that news will be received if the u.s. today should vote down these bills. i do  say that in order to worry or panic anyone. but it is symptomatic of my main thesis. which is that we can live with the fact that they might  like us and that we are  doing egh. and there are many complaints about uncle sam and the colossus of the th. but to reap the harvest of hate we can live with that and i do  believe any american wants to. an affirmative vote would also be a vote against isolationism which is a real danger and a vote for a continuing meaningful. forwardlooking u.s. involvement with the developing world. for that reason i think what we are doing is reasonable and prudent within the parameters and the political problems we have. even though at the moment we can have an optimum program even in this field. i think these bills deserve the support of the majority of the senate. as we had last night and as i hope we will have today
. for some time i have been concerned about a growing attitude in the united states to cut back on many of our legal obligations throughout the world. it is essential that we recognize the changing u.s. role in the world but it is still necessary in our own security to support international organizations and increased ecoic cooperation with other countries in the world. such a view is expressed in an editorial published in todays new york times which deplores the failure to pay assessments to the ilo. the attempts to reduce the level of the united states regular u.n. assessment. the resumption of imports of chrome from rhodesia and the 10percent import surcharge. these are the areas where the u.s. role should  be diminishing and i believe the new york times is correct in its assessment that the credibility and the moral basis of the u.s. role in the world could be undermined by the net effect of these actions. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
 power even when he lifted the surcharge to keep the "buy american" provision as an element of the tax credit. thereby guaranteeing that it remain a bone in the throat. as it were. of our trading partners. even though they are working out a currency realinement. i repeat again that it is the most deeply resented of all things we are doing. beginning with august 15. in our effort to obtain stabilized prices in this country and to -deal with our balance of payments. when we add that to the import surcharge and to the various currency floats. it means that the bill represents a 20percent barrier against machinery imports coming into the united states. that is very deeply resented. as i have * said. i point out that if there is retaliation. it is we and  they who will suffer the most. because a growing percentage of our exports consists of capital goods. imports of capital goods are also increasing. but our export surplus in this category increased from an average of $5.5 billion in 195965 to $8.5 billion in 196669. and $10.5 billion in 1970. the last recorded year. so enactment of a new. discriminatory buyamerican provision is bound to be retaliated against and will be productive and counterproductive for the united states and will rub salt in the wound. it is most unwise. in closing. i repeat if the other nations retaliateand they must. why should there  be "buy german." "buy italy." "buy uk." "buy france"-it will hurt us because this is an area in which we have a real bulge in exports over imports. for all these reasons i hope the senate agrees to the amendment and strikes this provision from the bill
the senator is very perceptive. i should like to answer the senator in two ways: first. the argument respecting our willingness to engage in a high quota system ourselves is based upon 8 percent of our ecoy being devoted to exports and imports in foreign trade. the converse of that proposition is that 92 percent is domestic. therefore. the idea of increasing domestic productivity. improving in that way our own ecoic structure. leaving alone the actual dollar sign. becomes the converse of the senators proposition and is a perfectly valid argument on my part to make in reply to the senator. i should like to go further. as i have such high admiration and respect for the senator. and say that he will  find me lacking for a minute. he ks about the japanese situation. for example. and our being real tough about dismantling tariff barriers for trade in other nations. i am  mawkish about that at all. i even see a case for dealing with a sudden. overwhelming impact of imports into our own country. i have tried to apply my mind. as the senator ks. to the kind of legislative proposals i could make consistent with my philosophy. in order to make that point. so i agree with the senator. we must bear in mind. and the senator ks it very well. because he ks a lot about the agricultural situation. that we are under the chargeand it has some meritthat we. too. have tariff barriers of trade. but when we compare ours with theirs. there is question that we are being very materially prejudiced. so i am with the senator in my fight.
. the proxmire amendment is most important to our relations with latin america. but i am very disturbed by the current state of those relations. which have been marked by an attitude of  very benign neglect on the part of the administration and the congress. i refer to many factors  least the inaction on the generalized preference scheme. cutting the alliance for progress authorization and appropriation. the inequitable effects of the import surcharge. and the lack of action on the full funding requests for the interamerican development bank. so while i very much welcome and support the proxmire amendment. it would be my hope that action could be taken on these items of unfinished business when the senate reconvenes next year. let me also add that i am responding to a request of the nixon administration forwarded by means of letters from secretary of the treasury connally to the chairmen of the senate and house appropriations committees. it is my view that many of these issues like the question of funding the iadb are partisan issues which deserve the support of all members who believe in continuing and improving our friendly relations with the countries of central and south america.
. i would like to join the senator from illis in commending the senator from ohio. i think it is a splendid initiative. i recall the days in the house foreign affairs committeethis goes back 15 years or morewhen we considered the battle act. introduced by laurie battle. which put the united states in a position to engage in these controls. it was then contemplated that we would always give the sharpest review to the whole program. it is only if congress joints in the initiative that the executive can take up that initiative. because the executive alone is reluctant to be identified with anything that conceivably would let the bars down and equip the "enemy" or the potential "enemy" with strategic materials. we all k how such things can be distorted. so the doubt has to be resolved by congress. by taking the initiative can we say to the executive that we want to be secure. but we do  want to be foolsafe in terms of this nation. so i thoroughly commend the senator. and hope that his effort will get somewhere. and i shall certainly help him in every way. i am glad. too. that he has seen fit to let this bill go through as it stands. one final comment. and that is that the senators work must be considered. too. with the totality of the work which. if protectionism is to be avoided in this country. will be necessary. first. much more remains to be done to stimulate and encourage exports. building on the impressive efforts to date of the exportimport bank and the u.s. department of commerce. still today many american firms are  interested in export trade. because it has  been facilitated. the facilitation of trade of american businesses lags far behind the stimulation of trade by european and japanese trade ministries often through their diplomatic missions. second to be considered is the matter of countervailing duties and antidumping matters. and the prompt and adequate enforcement of these and other laws and regulations already on the books. third. the negotiation of tariff barriers to trade. in the context of major trade negotiations in 1973 encompassing both agricultural and industrial products. fourth. the very urgent need for international monetary reform. and we are hopefully on the threshold of that. so i am glad to see the senator identifying himsef with those forward looking forces. i welcome the senators intiatives and will certainly do everything i can to make his efforts good.
ial assistant .eter flanigan firmly reject the idea of n inwardlooking united states retreatng behind protectionist walls. secretary rogers warned thatin "walling out" imports we would run the .rave risk of "walling in" the very u.s. exorts that we want to encourage. building rotectionist walls may seem very tempting. )ut it leads inevitably to retaliation and counterretaliation. today single country. matter how powerful can succeed in a unilateral policy of beggaring its neighbors r of exporting its "domestic adjustment" problems. it could be disastrous to our national interest to abandon our commitment to a more open world in which our ecoy. above all others. has flourished. peter flanigans fine speech outlines the threat that ecoic isolation would pose to the health of the u.s. ecoy. he said: one factor which threatens to undermine our foreign ecoic policy is the persistence. and perhaps even the growth. of irrational protectionisman ecoic isolationism. this ecoic isolationism holds that the united states can longer compete. even if the rules are fair. that expanded trade may have been good in the past. but that matter what the terms it is suspect in the future. this philosophy is currently reflected in several pieces of legislation proposed to the congress. perhaps the principal example is the foreign trade and investment act of 1972. kn informally as the burkehartke bill. the bill shares an administration objectivemore jobs for american workers. its failure stems from the premises on which it rests. it is our belief that the bill would result in fewer jobs. lower real wages. and higher prices for the american consumer. mr. flanigans speech then goes on to provide a detailed analysis of the foreign trade and investment bill of 1972the socalled burkehartke bill. i commend these two speeches to the senate and ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. my reply to that is that we get down to a situation where it is absolutely impossible to estimate the impact in export and import terms. exports and imports will be only 8 percent of the american ecoy. and the wage scales which are effected are  effected in a major way. in terms of aggregate numbers. by an increase in the minimum wage. considering the total number of people working. even though the numbers are large in absolute terms when we come to those receiving the minimum wage. i do  believe. it will have any material effect. one way or the other. on the basic question of competitiveness of american business. i could argue with the senator at great length the basic question of fairness involved. we have done that many times on trade legislation. but i can subscribe to the proposition that whatever we do on this minimum wage. if we go the way of the senator from ohio and the senator from colorado. or if we go the way of the senator from new jersey and myself. it will make a material difference respecting the competitive position of the united states in terms of international trade.
. i have just received a letter from assistant secretary of state charles a. meyer outlining the position of the administration in support of latin american integration. this letter is in response to a speech that i made on may 16. entitled the "crises facing regional integration in the americas" in which i criticized the lukewarm u.s. support for latin american integration movements. i welcome secretary meyers policy statement and recognize that with this policy the department of state emphasizes our support for effective regional ecoic agencies in contrast with emphasizing strictly bilateral relations with selected latin american countries to the neglect of policies which would help promote latin american integration. in light of events  taking place in the world with particular reference to the agreement signed between the european ecoic community countries and other european countries belonging to the european free trade areaeftawhich will lead to an even broader industrial free trade zone in europe. it would be my view that an accelerated integration movement in latin america is  imperative if latin america is to take its rightful position in the world. the success or failure of the latin american integration movement will do much to determine whether latin america truly will enter the mainstream of the worlds future ecoic relations. in turn. it would be my hope that the administration through its bilateral and multilateral development assistance programs will give a renewed impetus to latin american regional integration. i ask unanimous consent that assistant secretary meyers letter of july 24 and the text of my speech of may 16 be printed in the record.
. on june 11. the chairman of the joint ecoic committee. senator william .roxmire. released in a committee report a compendium of papers submitted to the joint ecoic committeejecon international subsidies. this jec report reprinted three academic studies submitted to the committee by three professors of ecoics. today. i would like to record that the views put forward in these studies do  represent my views as the ranking republican senator on the joint ecoic committee and to express my own views directly. one of the studies published in the compendium is entitled "export credit subsidies and u.s. exports: an analysis of the u.s. eximbank." by prof. douglas r. bohi of southern illis university. and my remarks today are addressed to this study only. one of the underlying premises of professor bohis study seems to me to be without foundation. professor bohi states in his conclusion that the united states is currently using a combination of three major programs to improve its trade balance: flexible dollar exchange rate. export promotion. and import control. earlier in the study professor bohi also states that if the recent decision to float the u.s. dollar in international markets is an indication of the willingness to adjust the balance of payments by this method in the future. the logical basis for most import control or export promotion programs will be eliminated. but the united states has never floated the dollar. is prevented by the bretton woods act from floating the u.s. dollar. and the float of other currencies against the dollar also does  seem in the cards. since u.s. policymakers can and are  following this option. it logically follows that they must concern themselves with more conventional export promotion techniques if our serious balance of trade and balance of payments deficit position is to be ameliorated. this. then. gets to the crux of the substantive arguments. namely. whether the u.s. government subsidizes exports through the operation of the eximbank and whether the eximbank loans are an effective means of promoting u.s. exports. the bohi study contends that eximbank loans are subsidized and raises doubts as to their effectiveness in promoting exports. since these serious questions have been raised. i think that my colleagues would be interested in this regard in the evaluation of this study by an internationally respected ecoist. dr. howard piquet. who is well kn to the congress through his work with the legislative reference service for more than 20 years and who was commissioned by the eximbank to evaluate the professor bohi study. regarding the subsidy allegation. dr. piquet concludes: subsidies would be involved if the eximbank operated at a loss. on the contrary. the eximbank has been highly profitable. professor banks arguments are misleading because they imply that american taxpayers are paying for large subsidies to foreigners to enable them to buy u.s. exports. most of which they would have bought even without subsidy. in those few instances where the eximbank has had to borrow at unusually high rates. the amounts involved have been very small. since 1945 the eximbank lending rate has- been consistently higher than its borrowing rate at the u.s. treasury for equivalent. or even longer maturities. except only in late 1969 and early 1970. dr. piquet. after presenting various tables goes on to e that: even during 1966 and in 196870 the costs incurred on some current borrowing were more than offset by the profits accrued on outstanding balances and on other current borrowings at rates lower than the eximbank lending rate. with the result that. on an overall basis. the banks operations showed a profit in these years alone. dr. piquet then concludes: thus. even under the definition of "subsidy" followed by the staff of the (joint ecoic) committee. current operations of the eximbank in most years have never entailed a subsidy cost. on a cumulative basis. the eximbanks operations have never entailed a subsidy cost. the second principal point of contention is whether the eximbanks loan program provides a significant stimulus to american exports. again. the conclusions of professor bohi and dr. piquet differ markedly. after dr. piquet points out that export credits and the terms under which such credits are available is one of the factors involved in determining competitive advantage. dr. piquet makes the following analysis: it is impossible to prove mathematically that the eximbank has been ineffective in stimulating u.s. exports as it is to prove that it has been effective. because of the nature of export financing. there is a strong presumption that the eximbank has facilitated increased exports and that. in doing so. it has  impaired the foreign trade position of the united states.  aggravated its balance of payments deficit. exports just dont happen. for the most part. they are closely intertwined with financing. a salesman for u.s. industrial products abroad will have little success if he can assure potential buyers of adequate financing. it can be generalized that purchasers in the lessdeveloped countries simply do  have egh cash with which to purchase imports. and that even in the developed countries cash for the purpose is scarce. for example. in japan the electric power companies are private institutions. receiving payment in japanese yen. they do  have access to japanese currencies held by the bank of japan. therefore. they require supplier financing if they buy imported equipment. every important exporting country has an exportfinancing facility. which finances exports at fixed. rather than floating interest rates. in the united states the current practice of commercial banks usually is to finance exports at floating rates. which means that the rate of interest is subject to change as the prime borrowing rate changes within the united states. were it  for the eximbank. which provides long term loans at a fixed rate (for some time 6 percent). purchasers of u.s. exports might have to borrow exclusively at floating rates. which would place u.s. exporters at a disadvantage compared with exporters in other countries. dr. piquets analysis then goes on to make a careful ecoic analysis of the various points raised by professor bohi. since the united states is in a period of balanceofpayments difficulties. since it is in the national interest to review carefully the export promotion activities of the federal government to insure that they are giving all appropriate assistance to the promotion of u.s. exports. and since the study of professor bohi has received widespread press attention. i felt it proper to bring to the attention of my colleagues dr. piquets challenge to certain assertions made by professor bohi. a copy of dr. piquets study is available from the eximbank just as a copy of dr. bohis study is available from the joint ecoic committee. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the concluding remarks of dr. howard s. piquets study. "export credit subsidies and u.s. exports: an analysis of the u.s. eximbank." by douglas r. bohia reply be placed in the congressional record at this point.
. i invite the attention of the senate to an excellent speech dealing with u.s. direct investment abroad given by henry j. heinz ii. chairman of the board of the h. j. heinz co.. before the annual meeting of the company on september 13. 1972. the speech is particularly germane because of the burkehartke legislation which is at present before this congress and is likely to be a matter of major legislative concern in the next congress. mr. heinz sets forth a particularly impressive record for his own company. he said: because of the nature of our businesses. we export very little from the u.s. we sell in foreign markets by operating there. in doing so. we have  exported a single job and our foreign earnings make a healthy contribution to the income side of the u.s. balance of payments ledger. if we had foreign operations. we would be reporting sales here today of $627 million rather than $1.1 billion and earnings of $22 million rather than $42 million. in fact. without our international businesses. our domestic operations would likely be less successful than they are. for. as the ecat survey indicates. international companies are more dynamic than strictly domestic firms. earlier in his speech mr. heinz ed that in 1971. 46 percent of sales and 47 percent of earnings were realized abroad and that heinz affiliates overseas have paid more than $76 million in gross dividends to their u.s. parent over the last 10 years. i ask senators to consider how many companies similar to the heinz company are found in the united states and to reflect on the disastrous effect that the passage of the burkehartke legislation would have on such companies and in turn on the american ecoy. i ask unanimous consent that mr. heinz excellent speech be printed in the record.
. with all due respect to the senator from colorado he makes it very difficult. he tells us that some feel he is trying to put something over. i reject that. i have the highest respect for the senator from colorado and for his character. i k he believes sincerely every word he utters. that is why we have yea and nay votes and that is why some vote for a proposal and some vote against the proposal. any time a member opposes something. if we were to put it on a personal level we could hardly ever do business. it would make it difficult and embarrassing. i respectfully submit that it is very hard to argue the whole tariff question. which involves domestic manufacturers. their products. our position in international trade. gatt. classifications. and 1.000 other things. we will have quite a session on that subject next year. but i think at this particular time. when the ground rules which i think were fairly laid down by the senator from louisiana were the only things he could see taking were those generally agreed on. i could  agree. if the senator presses us we will have to use whatever machinery there is to bring about a decision by the senate. one wants to prejudice his case. least of all the senator from wisconsin or me. i hope very much the senator understands that and that we love him dearly. there is hing personal about it. but in all conscience we can move in this area under these circumstances. at some time a session has to end and aher session begin. if we end on december 31 and begin a new session the next day. it would clean the calendar of all legislation. including this matter. we are dealing with the facts of life. i. hope the senator will  press us. but i could  sit here and honestly let this amendment pass and be placed on this bill.
. various with satisfactory levels of predictability and committees of the congress are inter- responsiveness to their needs. ested in the question of american pri- under these circumstances. it is good news. vate foreign investment overseas and indeed. to discern the emergence of a new one aspect of this concerns the u.s. gov- pattern of governmental institutions in the ernment programs. primarily those of capitalexporting countries offering the pothe overseas private investment corpo- tential of providing such a coherent instituration--opicwhich support. through tional framework for at least one important aspect of the activities of the multinational insurance programs. private investment corporation--official support of private jointin the developing world. venture investments in the developing couni would like to bring to the attention tries. the new investment insurance and of my colleagues a fine article by wil- financing agencies created in the past few liam (gil) carter.  a private lawyer years can be used to achieve effective multiin washington. who was helpful in lateralization of government protection and drafting the opic legislation which financial support of multinationallyowned investment projects. by so doing. these agenpassed the congress in 1969. cies can make an effective contribution mr. carter makes the point that- towards stabilizing the international investa network of investment support insti- ment climate. tutions has been established. during the a major tenet of the conventional wisdom last six years. in most of the capitalexport- about international ecoic relations. reing countries. flecting the mercantilist view. is that exports i think as the opic debates goes for- are "good" and direct investments outside of the home territory are "bad" or. at best. a ward that we should keep this fact very mixed blessing. that this attitude is still much in mind. as mr. carter makes widespread is well demonstrated by the real clear. opictype programs have either strength behind the aflciosponsored been instituted or legislation is pending burkehartke bill (h.r. 10914. s. 2592). this in some 14 dac member countries. is also perhaps the chief explanation of the clearly. the investment guarantee con- widespread growth and universal acceptance cept is an ldea whose tlme has come and of governmentsponsored export financing institutions. such as the exportimport bank support for this concept continues to of the united states. for many years. every grow in many countries of the world industrialized country has been committed to which also happen to be our major com- providing financing facilities to stimulate expetitors. i ask unanimous consent that ports. indeed. the relative terms of governgil carters fine article "national sup- mentbacked export financing have become a port of multinational ventures" which major competitive factor in international appeared in the columbia journal of commerce. in proposals made by international conworld business be printed in the con- sortia or joint ventures both multinational gressional record at this point. companies and financing institutions have i would also like to draw the atten- become highly sophisticated in their ability tion of my colleagues to information to "package" suppliers credits. the basic provided by the yugoslav information formula is simple: each company belonging agency on the importance of the opic to the consortium is expected to generate legislation to promoting u.s. investment from its national export financing agency a er united commitment to finance that companys proin yugoslavia and in turn closr portionate share of the procurement involved statesyugoslav relations. the congress in the project. although  without dlfficulhas also authorized opic to operate in ties and conflicts. this system is wellkn. romania and i have heard similar re- reasonably effective and largely meets the ports from romanian officials. i ask needs of the member companies in interunanimous consent the excerpts from national joint ventures of suppliers. the february 8 publication of yugoslav when we turn from export financing to facts and views be printed in the direct investment projects in lessdeveloped countries (ldcs). the relatively firm founrecord at this point. dation of governmental support from well-
. i asked the treasury department. in connection with this measure. which was also considered by the committee on foreign relations. of which i am a member. whether the united states has undertaken any international commitment to maintain the existing exchange rate structure. their answer was "" i ask unanimous consent that an appropriate excerpt from the letter of paul volcker to me. dated march 20. 1973. be printed in the record at this point.
this to me is the critical point. it is that we are taking this action in order to demonstrate that the united states is  going to be overcome by this oil embargo or by production cutbacks. or what may turn out even worse. the emously escalating prices of oil. but that we are putting ourselves in a stronger position to deal with it. i believe. ia view of the uncertainty and delay that are bound to ensue if this matter is returned to conference and if this conference report is  approved. the tradeoff for the imperfections that admittedly are in this bill simply are  worth it. and it is much too dangerous from the point of view of hoping to bring an end to the high prices which the world simply can bear as well as the actual physical deprivation caused by the shortage of oil which neither the people of the united states  europe and japan can bear. the key answer to that  is the stance of the united states. can we take on the responsibility. in my judgment we can serve ice to the world that we can and we will by acting  in terms of giving ourselves the power inherent in this act. for those reasons. and because i bey lieve the deficiencies in the bill can be i corrected by appropriate and swiftly enacted legislation. i shall vote against the recommittal of the conference report.
the senator is entirely correct. the amendment would  affect anything but opics authority to grant a guarantee. if it wished to. but the transaction itself would be subject to substantive law. including export control or whatever other law was applicable to that particular transaction.
the import of this provision of the constitution. and i will explain why. in my opinion. means at the beginning of each congress each house may determine its own rules. because the practice has been in the other body. never challenged. that at the beginning of each congress they adopt their rules. the presiding officers of the senate have interpreted that same precedent to mean that the senate was either a continuing body or tacitly adopted its rules by  changing them at the time when the senate became part of a new congress. that is why i say what i do. if the senator were correct. by the way. and that view could be exercised at any time. then this motion could be made at any time. and this finding of constitutionality could be made at any time. so we have sort of subjected ourselves to the discipline of trying to do what we believe should be done at the beginning of each congress. because that is the way the other body has pursued it. and that has been the traditional practice there. but if the senator were correct. the traditional point would be more strongly against that view than it is even . because if this is correct as a statement of policy. it has qualification. the beginning of each congress or anything else. it could be made at any time.
. i hope very much that this will bring the regime in chile to some recognition of the total import of its acts. it can. by any stretch of the imagination. be subject to some tautology which says that it is ok to sell them arms if they pay for them in cash but it is  ok to sell them arms if we are going to do it on credit or in some other way under this bill. i say to the senate that in discussing this matter with my colleagues who are managing the bill. it was i who felt that the issue was such that we would have to go on record about it. there is way here of just accepting an amendment. we had to express ourselves on the record as to how we felt about this situation. we express ourselves. of course. systematically in the light of the fact that you can sentence a nation or its people to some eternal penalty. but in the absence of some effort to have a sense of decent recognition of the outrage of the world.  justified by the findings of a commission of the organization of american states. i can see other way to express ourselves than the one offered us by the senator from massachusetts. accordingly. i. too. shall vote "aye" and hope that other members on this side will do as well with respect to this amendment.
. i support the ination of michael blumenthal. i would  take the senates time if i did  fully k him but also worked with him during his work in europe in connection with the european community and the tariff and trade problems which exist there. he brings with him an unusual dimension of experience. skill. and very high standing with the leaders of europe who have negotiated with him. i believe that his appointment is one of the very fine appointments that have been made in the course of the history of this office. i commend it highly to the senate.
