. the senator from virginia put the question in perspective in a hearing before the committee on foreign relations which later unanimously reported this resolution and recommended its passage by the senate. senator byrd of virginia said: i believe that important principles are involved in this resolution. principles concerning the american system of checks and balances and the constitutional role of the senate in foreign policy. the issue. as i understand it. is where should the line be drawn as to whether agreements with foreign nations should be executive agreement. which does  require senate action. or by treaty. which does require senate approval. i am frank to say that i find difficulty in delineating a precise formula. some issues are clear cut. others are borderline. the agreements governing u.s. bases in the azores and bahrain possibly fall in the latter category. but. in my view. the doubt should be resolved in favor of the legislative process. i agree with senator byrd. the agreements with portugal and bahrain are simply too important to be left to an exchange of diplomatic es. the resolution i have introduced concerns two recent agreements entered into by the executive branch without the use of the treatymaking process. the first was with portugal. it provided for continued american use of military bases in the azores in return for the united states providing portugal with about $435 million in credits and assistance. the second was anagreement with bahrain for the establishment of an american military base in that country. both of these agreements represent significant foreign policy moves. they both involve the stationing of american military forces abroad. as we have learned in the past. this can lead ultimately to war. in the case of portugal. we would be furnishing large amounts of assistance to a country which is presently involved in three separate colonial wars in africa. despite our ties to portugal through the nato alliance. our government has imposed an embargo on shipments of arms to portugal for use in africa. many americans have raised the questionand i am among themwhether providing such large amounts of assistance to portugal would  be contrary to the stated u.s. government position of supporting selfdetermination for the peoples living in portugals colonies. the bahrain agreement is signicant in that it provides for a permanent american base in an area where we have never before had our own installation. despite a state department spokesmans statement that "all we are doing is changing landlords." the establishment of an american base in a foreign country is a very serious matter. moreover. a base in the persian gulf could potentially entangle us in the bitter dispute  raging among iran. iraq. saudi arabia. and several other states over territorial claims. the recent iranian occupation of islands at the mouth of the persian gulf only points up the volatility of that part of the world. the shah of iran has  gone on public record in opposition to our presence in bahrain.
