. i am introducing legislation today which will. i believe. contribute significantly to strengthening the means by which this nation can find effective solutions to its environmental problems. the bill. which provides for the establishment of a national laboratory for environmental science. would implement one of the main recommendations of the recent study by the national academy of sciences on effective management on the environment. and would provide one of the major components necessary to meet the nations needs for environmental research. as the national academy study points out. there is laboratory within the federal government that  carries out systematic research on the environment as a whole. present efforts are specialized and fragmented. and the overall ecological systems approach has  been adopted by any single federal agency. there is. therefore. a need for a federal laboratory for environmental sciences. whose research goal would be the development of kledge and techniques that will lead to effective management of the environment. this laboratory would be contractoroperated as other national laboratories are. and funded by the several federal agencies with environmental responsibilities. its prime mission would be to carry out research in the environmental sciences and to develop a quickreaction field function that would call attention to potential threats to the environment. it would perform research in monitoring. but would  have operational responsibility for a monitoring program. it would also conduct analysis of its research results. but would  be policy oriented. thus. as an arrangement outside the government. the laboratory would have the advantage of flexibility and a minimum of extrabureaucratic constraints. and it would encourage the relatively free interchange of research staff among universities. private research institutes. the national laboratory. and other federal laboratories. additionally. as an independent laboratory it would have the further advantage of providing the diversity of talent and viewpoints necessary to cope with environmental problems. according to the national academy of sciences report. these characteristics which i have just described have been largely responsible for the success of other national laboratories in different fields. such as brookhaven. oak ridge. and los alamos. and privatelyoperated national type laboratories such as woods hole and scripps. i have kept the successful experiences of these laboratories in mind in proposing this new one to deal with the environmental sciences. the objectives of the national laboratory for environmental science will be analyzing the interaction of environmental factors. developing the capacity to predict environmental changes. and the capacity to restore. improve. and generally control the environment. for the basic and applied research that will be necessary to achieve these goals. the laboratory will need a sizable research staff. laboratory facilities. and the use of the vast body of monitoring data acquired through the activities of the federal government. although this proposal was  predicated on the utilization of the nasa electronics research center in cambridge. mass.. i think that this site might well be a most suitable and appropriate place for the national laboratory for environmental science. it is most relevant. in this regard. that the national academy of sciences study itself states that: the necessary components for building a national laboratory. the scientists. supporting staff and facilities. might well come from existing laboratories whose missions have been accomplished. or whose original usefulness has diminished. biologists. physicists. computer scientists and other specialists could serve in the new laboratory ... as they did in the . . . old. the growing concern for the environment that we sense among scientists and other professionals. and the need for new kinds of research. might well serve to reinvigorate many professionals who seek new opportunities to assume social roles. importantly. the proximity of the large and outstanding academic community in the area would provide a vast talent pool. and greatly facilitate the kind of interchange of research staff and expertise that will go to make a national laboratory for environmental sciences a successful operation.
. this amendment was offered and those words were delivered on september 13. 1977. and if you ask what happened to that amendment on the floor of the senate. on that day it was defeated. 83 to 7. thats correct. 83 to 7. of the 7 yeas. there were two republicans. senator percy and senator weicker. and five democrats. senator bumpers. senator hathaway. senator kennedy. senator metzenbaum. and senator rndcoff. then 31 republicans and 52 democrats voted against it. i picked up my newspaper several weeks ago. and lo and behold. what did i read. and what did i listen to on the television networks of this nation. that there was a new plana new plan o a bday week for the automobileintroduced on the house side by my colleague from connecticut. representative moffett. a new plan. it is  a question just of the congress of the united states. the house and the senate. or the executive branch of the u.s. government. or the consumers. but we  look upon our whole society. including the media. as  caring at all as to the substance of what is being said during the course of this crisis. or its debate. or its proposals and resolution. but merely to raise constantly the question: is there a crisis. is there a problem. we constantly raise this question among ourselves. with various and sundry conscious efforts to respond to that crisis. and always to get on to the next day. hoping we will be able to work our way out of it. or that some magical event will occur somewhere in the world to relieve us of the very tough responsibilities and choices that we face. almost 2 years ago. to the letterthe exact same conservation plan that is  being held up as a new plan was considered in this chamber. the amendment at the desk today is almost. with the exception of a few words. identical to that which was rejected by this body 2 years ago.
