. first let me commend my distinguished colleague from massachusetts for his initiative in bringing this matter to the attention of the house. as he said. in august of 1961 the portuguese government annced a series of reforms for all of their territories around the world and full political rights were extended to the natives of angola. mozambique. and guinea. the african provinces of portugal. affairs were placed in local hands in these areas and. at the same time. the number of representatives from angola to the national assembly in lisbon was increased from three to seven. citizenship was extended to all persons regardless of race in all of the provinces. also. citizens were accorded the right to vote on the very same basis as residents of european portugal. i was gratified by this action. as were my friends of portuguese extraction in massachusetts. the real test of these new reforms is in their application. according to the reports that i have been reading in the newspapers during the past year. portugal has been rapidly making these reforms. relations between our country and portugal have been strained in recent months or so. and officials charged with the conduct of our foreign relations ought to take e of these developments in the conduct of our affairs with the portuguese in the months ahead. i thank the gentleman.
yesterday. gover clinton. in new york city in an appearance before the jewish community relations council. charged that the. bush administration has "ever so subtly * * * broken down the taboo against overt antisemitism." the impression gover clinton clearly and  so subtly wanted to convey was that the bush administration is antisemitic. this is a disgusting charge. and gover clinton does the voters a disservice with such tactics. one cares if gover clinton desperately wants to ingratiate himself with one group of voters or aher. but to advance his cause by charging president george bush with antisemitism leaps into  only the * area of total falsehood but. also crosses any bounds of decency.  bush. who strongly and correctly believes that the settlements are an obstacle to peace and that u.s. guarantees should  be used to further these obstacles. the american people are clamoring for a serious discussion about the problems that face our nation. but what type of political discourse is gover clinton ehgaging in. have we reached the point in. american politics where policy differences can be debated without ascribing religious. racial. ethnic. or gender prejudice. let us give the voters of new york. and across the country. more credit. let us debate the issues. aggressively if need be. but. let us  stifle debate with reckless accusations and charges the resolution states that "appropriof bias. ate loan guarantees should be grantit is time for gover clinton to ed. to me. "appropriate" means that move to higher ground. the united states should hold firm to its position and  grant any loan guarantees until the israeli governsense of the senate. re ment agrees to stop all new settlement garding loan guarantees construction in the occupied territofor refugee resettlement ries. in israel. "appropriate" also means. mr. presithe senate continued with the con- dent. that the details of the program sideration of the resolution. be rational. in other words. the
 on april 7 when he called for bringing the benefits of the american revolution to the people of the district. let us today add our votes to these voices. and finally grant the full rights and responsibilities of citizenship to all americans.
