there are some negroes going to city college. youll see them struggling up the hill at 145th street in the evening. kupferman. the same hill i climbed. the same hill i climbed. paterson: in the evening. yes. and its mighty interesting to me that these are the negroes and the puerto ricans who go to city college. or the city university. and that last year the city university took in eleven million dollars from these students. who cant afford to go days to the free tuition section. caller: yes. please. i direct my question to the congressman from the 17th congressional district. caller: congressman kupferman. id like to k basically. and quite frankly. and quite honestly. what can the people from the silk stocking district do to help ease the race tension. especially when you begin to see the white backlash forming throughout the nation. kupferman: well. you find that in my district we have some of the most liberalminded people that youll find in the nation. thats the district that john lindsay represented before he became mayor of the city of new york. john lindsay was a leader in the fight for the civil rights law. previous laws. and i helped in that same fight to the extent that i could. in the last few weeks. in the house of representatives. to try and get a fair bill through. even though a great many of the people in my own party objected. and i think the people from the silk stocking district want that sort of thing. and they dont believe in discrimination. and i represent them on that score. and. incidentally. following up on what bill booth said a few moments ago. i would hope that the people in the silk stocking district get out and register. too. bill. because we need some of the white power that they represent in order to meet the type of black power that you have suggested we should have. because these are the two types of things that will help make a great city out of our community. caller: in the interest of brevity. let me just preface this by saying that im a white american. a conservative american. im so white my colored friends tell me i glow in the dark. one of the individuals made a statement that he felt that the time for quality education is . and i buy that. im a hundred percent for the civil rights movement. especially the part of it that advocates selfdetermination and selfpride. my comment is that this individual said that he wants teachers that are  just going to graduate. that are going to educate. fine. thats well and good. but you cant expect a teacher of that caliber. who has to be a policeman. too. and i think the basis thereyou get down to the crux of the problemits a general collapse in the family level of the negro child. i work in colored areasbedford stuyvesant. williamsburg. and red hookand im well aware that at least 25% of these children are of illegitimate birth. and that there is a general breakdown in the family structure of the negro home. and i feel that a teacher can be on a high level of competency. and still be a policeman. and expect to teach these children. and to bring them up to the levels that they very well deserve to be. my other commentill make it very quickis james farmer. i think hes a man who should be gover of new york state. i was ver surprised though at his comments. that he felt youit seems to me he wants pride for the negro. but he feels that one of the ways you can get this is by a reverse income tax. you can make anyone proud. or anyone feel any feeling of dignity if hes getting a public dole from people who are working. why does the negro have to be at the bottom of the level. why does he have to be receiving. hes just as equal as us. and i really believe that. and i think he should be up on the top. i dont think any person can have dignity and pride if hes receiving handouts from someone who has to. therefore. be better than he is. adler: thank you very much for that comment. sir. and well get a reaction from gover farmer. farmer: i want first to comment on the first statement from the gentleman who raised the question. im really quite tired of hearing the negroes in this country being blamed for all of the evils which have been created by segregation and secondclass humanity. i think it is  fair to say that when sixty kids are in one class. and the teacher is compelled to try and teach sixty kids. and those sixty kids are unrulable. it takes the teacher a great deal of her time to keep order. that it is the fault of the kids. its the fault of overcrowded classrooms. its  the fault of the parents. its the fault of overcrowded classrooms. its the fault of  having teachers aides working with the teachers. so as to relieve the teachers of the responsibility of spending 80% of their time on teaching duties. as they  do. so lets improve the schools. lets indeed. provide quality education. lets move into educational parks. . on the second question of guaranteed annual income. i do  consider the guaranteed annual income to be a dole. especially when. as joe monserrat points out. and others have pointed out. senator paterson. that there are in our city many thousanas of people who are working for substandard wages. and  have to rely upon welfare in order to make it. there are millions of people in the country. laundry workers. hospital workers. and oldage. and some working for the government. indeed. farm workers. too. i think that these people should have their income supplemented. until the time comes when they have an adequate income which is  a dollar and a half an hour. adler:  johnson was talking about when he said that 10% had better be careful. they may be jeopardizing the gains theyve made. were talking in terms of america going forward. america can go anywhere unless the black and puerto rican communities are pushed out of the doldrums in which they have been shoved when they were kidnapped and brought here. adler: thank you very much. state senator basil paterson. we move along  to deputy chief inspector lloyd sealy. of the new york city police department. sealy: the police and the community must work together in order to bring about the type of tranquility all of us are seeking. one of the ways in which the community can assist the police. in addition to active cooperation with the local police offices. is by helping us to recruit more members of miity groups for the police department. in order that we can make our department more representative of the city. currently. applications are being issued for the patrolmans examination. which is expeoted to be held october 22nd. of this year. if you k of any young man. whom you believe would make a good police officer. encourage him to take this examination. adler: chief lloyd sealy. of the new york city police department. thank you very much. and finally finally. because i believe mr. booth has one thing to add. after you are through. mr. livingston wingate. of
. i rise today to urge the passage of s. 2515. the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986. this bill. which currently has 11 cosponsors. was unanimously ordered reported by the committee on labor and human resources on august 6. 1986. this legislation reauthorizes for 4 years programs under the rehabilitation actprograms which are critical to improving the quality of life for our nations handicapped citizens. the amendments made by s. 2515 will strengthen the ability of states to provide the breadth of services required by our most severely handicapped americans. it is true. as a nation. we have progressed in our attitudes toward people with handicaps. longer do we view people with handicaps in terms of what they can do. because such an attitude of limited ability has been challengedby the handicapped themselves. and by their parents. friends. and advocates. and they have won. our attitudes have changed. they have shown us what they can do. what they can learn and accomplish. given a little help from us. handicapped individuals are different from those of us who measure our selfworth by ourability to be productive. contributing members of societyand they deserve the same opportunities that the handicapped take for granted. programs authorized by the rehabilitation act offer such opportunities. and have proven themselves to be fiscally sound investments for our nation as well. in fact. programs funded through the rehabilitation act return $11 for every $1 expended.  that is a good investment. but in humanitarian terms. the return is even greater. because you can pin a price tag on human dignity. the dignity of working. of being independent. or becoming part of our towns and communitiesthat is what the rehabilitation act is all about for the people in our country who happen to be handicapped. so i am proud to bring before the senate today the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986. programs authorized under the rehabilitation act. include grants to states for vocational rehabilitation. through which employmentrelated services are currently provided to more than 900.000 individuals. the primary purpose of the rehabilitation act is getting people employedand it has been one of the most successful. costeffective programs funded by the federal government. the bill before you contains several new initiatives to assist handicapped individuals in their -desire to become employed. an important new component authorizes grants for states to develop supported employment services for severely handicapped individuals. supported employment is competitive work in integrated work settings for individuals who. because of the severity of their handicaps. need intensive. ongoing support services to perform such work. we  k that even severely handicapped people can be competitively employed. given appropriate supports. indeed. some state rehabilitation agencies are already successfully providing such supported employment services through their title i state grant program. the new title vi supported employment program is designed to supplement the supported employment services which a state agency offers. or may decide to offer. through its state grant program. the bill clearly states. that supported employment may  be considered an acceptable outcome for employability. on which eligibility for rehabilitation services under title i is based. in combination with the new grant program under title vi. all states will  be able to develop and expand supported employment programs and get even more severely handicapped people into the workforce. because of the variance in state rehabilitation agencies. in providing supported employment services. the bill allows states to elect a planning period to develop and initiate. their statewide system of supported employment services under title vi. for those states that elect this option. an 18month planning period is provided to enable states to meet state plan requirements for implementing a system of supported employment. the bill also contains some new provisions which relate to rehabilitation engineering. which is the use of techogy to reduce barriers faced by the handicapped so that they can become more independent and more fully integrated into the workforce. we k that people with handicaps face multiple barriers. and. with the systematic application of techogies. these barriers can often be overcome. during hearings before the subcommittee on the handicapped we heard testimony -on the success of rehabilitation engineering in reducing these barriers and expanding opportunities for the handicapped. and i am pleased that s. 2515 contains provisions that will expand the availability of rehabilitation engineering services. aher important provision in the bill strengthens the protections for handicapped people seeking to receive services from the rehabilitation system. the bill requires that the administrative appeal process for solving disagreements relating to the provision of services include consideration by an impartial hearing officer. it is my belief that disputes can be resolved more fairly. and less adversarily. when an impartial reviewer evaluates the situation and renders a decision. s. 2515 also contains important additions to strengthen provisions relating to independent living .and projects with industry. these two programs have proven themselves successful in assisting handicapped people to live independently. and in providing them job placement opportunities in the competitive workforce. the bill provides funding continuity for centers and projects which meet national standards. the bill further provides for an increased role for the national council on the handicapped as a policy advisory body on issues of national scope affecting persons with handicaps. because we must be looking toward the future. we have mandated that the council prepare a report on goals for the year 2000 for the handicapped. and strategies for achieving those goals. the council will be expected to report to congress annually on the progress we are making toward realizing those goals. there have been several modifications to s. 2515 since it was originally introduced. one significant addition clarifies the intent of congress where violations of section 504 by recipients of federal financial assistance are concerned. this addition provides that states shall  be immune under the 11th amendment from suit in federal court for violations of section 504 of the rehabilitation act. or other federal statutes prohibiting discrimination. this provision closes a gap in civil rights protections by allowing individuals to enforce their rights in federal court when state or state agency actions are at issue. the gap in protection of individual rights was made evident by the supreme court decision in atascadero state hospital versus scanlon. which provided immunity to a state from suit in federal court based on the 11th amendment. s . 2515 will return civil rights protection to individuals where violations by states or state agencies are concerned. aher modification was the addition of language relating to the accessibility of electronic office equipment purchased or leased by the federal government. congress has recognized in the past the need to make federal buildings accessible to the handicapped. the bill before you today will allow for the development of federal guidelines for accessibility of electronic office equipment. the buildings are accessible. and  it is time to look at barriers which exist inside those buildings in terms of equipment that can be easily and readily made accessible to a handicapped person. i would also like to address a concern that i have regarding the authorization levels in s. 2515 for the state vocational rehabilitation grant program. the authorization level in the bill is $1.281.000.000 for fiscal year 1987. with allowance for costofliving increases in the succeeding 3 fiscal years. in addition. the bill provides for additional funds as congress deems necessary and appropriate. and removes the cap on the amount of dollars congress may appropriate. it is my understanding. however. that the administration has interpreted the language of the law to mean that congress intends to reauthorize only a costofliving increase for each year for this very important program. which is  consistent with our intention in developing this bill. it is my hope that the house and senate conferees will address this issue during the course of the conference. in conclusion. we k that handicapped people are able to be employed. even morewe k that they want to be employed. a recent harris poll. commissioned by the national council on the handicapped. indicated that twothirds of disabled americans between the ages of 16 and 64 are  workingand that is an unemployment statistic that surpasses all others in this nation. further. twothirds of these individuals want to work. in fact. many of these individuals want to work even at the risk of losing federal or state benefits. it is imperative that we respond to this need by reauthorizing the rehabilitation act with the improvements included in the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986. this is a solid and progressive piece of legislation which will make a significant impact on the lives of handicapped people in our country. by adopting s. 2515. we have the opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the millions of disabled individuals in this country. let us help them in their effort to help themselves: in their efforts to obtain and maintain employment. achieve independence. and become fully integrated into community life.
. i have denced separatism and separatists. both black and white. i believe in one nation. i believe in integration. and i am confident that most americans. black and white. share these beliefs. the hope for an end to racial division lies in our educational system. the opportunities we afford our young people determine the shape of our nations future. if we deny children the right to an equal chance in life. we deny our nation a chance for greatness. if we perpetuate separate societies. divided by igance and suspicion. we risk an unsteady and uncertain future. for each generation of segregation in our schools. we risk aher generation of division in our nation. we must  deny our young people the chance to bridge mutual misunderstandings with shared experiences and opportunities. these cleverly crafted measures strike at the fundamental source of hope for our natior children. though i am confident their most pernicious provisions would be struck down by the supreme court of the united states. their enactment would seriously divide and confuse our nation. for two decades. the course has been sure but slow. and  we are asked to hastily and drastically alter it. why. because many americans have become confused by the rhetoric on busing. in some cases this confusion is deliberately contrived by those who speak of "busing to achieve racial balance" when such busing is  at issue. the issue is simple: shall we or shall we  permit necessary remedies to a constitutional violation. segregation of public schools by official act is unlawful. this is a fact. busing is an integral and pervasive component of our educational system. and that. too. is a fact. the fact is that in many cases. busing is necessary to uphold the law. these measures are  as some call them antibusing amendments. their provisions. limiting options in school assignments. permitting resegregation without remedy. and stimulating relitigation of all desegregation cases. compel a more accurate description. h.r. 13915 was an antidesegregation bill. the esch amendment and amendment  1140 are antidesegregation amendments. on october 10. 1972. i discussed. i believe thoroughly. h.r. 13915 then pending. i said then that among the provisions of this housepassed bill that demand scrutiny is one which would permit the reopening of long since closed and completed southern school cases. cases which preceded and had hing to do with the current furor over courtordered comprehensive busing in big cities th and south. i said it could put in train an endless flow of disruptive and harmful relitigation and possibly result in a rollback of court decisions whose fairness and necessity have by  been granted by practically everyoneincluding many of those who once opposed them. aher provision which had  been thoroughly studied by either the senate or the house was that which would permit courtordered busing. but limit it to the "next nearest" school from that which was being desegregated. what this strange feature could doand in innumerable cases wouldis guarantee that the effects of busing orders be felt only in those poor white "ethnic" areas whose schools have least to offer ghetto children and where racial tensions run the highest. by voting for such a provision. the members of congress are saying. in effect. that busing is fine so long as it tends to leave the affluent middleclass alone. finally. there was a provision authorizing the federal judiciary and the executive branch to compel. as a remedy preferable to busing. the closing down of old schools and the construction of new. interestingly. when this provision came before the house in 1972. an amendment was voted down which would have at least provided some federal funds for districts compelled by the federal government to engage in what could be extremely costly construction. that vote. in my view. offered a fair measure of the degree of sensitivity that prevailed then and prevails  in congress concerning the potential longterm effects of such legislation on the districts in questionas distinct from sensitivity toward the political value of an antibusing vote. which members feel only too keenly. today. 19 months after i spoke these words. members of both houses of congress k full well the content and portent of the esch amendment and amendment  1144. nineteen months ago. i observed that the senate was being rushed to judgment. i said: and here in the senate we are asked to follow in kind. senate supporters of this bill refused to allow the measure to be referred to the committee with proper jurisdiction over it. the committee on labor and public welfare. by refusing to allow proper consideration of this bill in 1972. its supporters denied americans the right to closely examine this legislation and to be heard for or against it. one could argue that the labor and public welfare committee was a graveyard for legislation. the committee has faced up to the issue of busing time and time again. the senate had expressed its will on busing on two occasions in 1972 alone. king that the committee would act responsibly. i could only assume in 1972 that the supporters of h.r. 13915 feared the revelations that would ensue from its careful scrutiny. the title of that measure and the pending amendment belie their content as any objective analysis will prove.
. in 1965. with the enactment of the elementary and secondary education act. the congress undertook a special responsibility for education of children from low income families. the national viewpoint with respect to desegregation of schools had been expressed earlier through supreme court decisions and the enactment by congress of title vi of the civil rights act which bars segregation in programs utilizing federal funds. the distinguished american columnist. joseph alsop. in a penetrating article in the new republic of july 22. has examined the problems of quality education in the ghetto. with emphasis on the questions of integration as a means of raising the quality of the schools and of special quality education programs such as the more effective school (mes) program in new york city which has received funds under title i of the elementary and secondary education act. in this area of racial tensions the alsop article focuses on the low level of ghetto education which has been labeled the shame of our cities. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. with the passing of winston l. prouty. the senate lost one of its most distinguished members and i have lost a friend and colleague with whom i served since he first came to the house of representatives in 1951. win prouty. though a taciturn vermonter. sparing in his speech. had a special instinct. for justice and the right. he assumed a leadership role on behalf of the aged and on behalf of the handicapped. areas in which his contributions will be long remembered. to cite but several of his interests. as ranking miity member of the education subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. he sought to follow in the path of his distinguished. predecessor from. vermont. justin p. morrill. who was the author of the land grant college program which came into law in the administration of abraham lincoln. most of the education statutes enacted in recent years bear the prouty imprint. win prouty was a republican. governed  by partisan considelations but by conscience and reason. he earned the approbation of members of the opposite party during his service in the house and senate and in the vermont state legislature. when he disagreed on issues. it was  through contentiousness but through reasoned thought. i join my colleagues in conveying deepest sympathy and condolences to his beloved wife. jennette. and family whom he cherished and to the people of vermont whom he served so very superbly.
