 submitted his budget request to congress. this document proposes funding the bog at a level of $622 million. while eliminating the eog. cutting $20 million from the workstudy program and $269 million from the ndsl program. this request totally iges the requirements of the higher education act. what is more. it will bring extreme hardship to bear on middle income students who do  qualify for a bog as well as to all students who will need additional assistance in order to attend high cost institutions. with the bog limited to onehalf the cost of education. there must be additional assistance available. the flood amendment. based on over 200 pages of hearings. is totally consistent with the higher education act. it provides funding levels for eog. college workstudy and ndsl. consistent with last years levels and provides an additional $122.100.000 for the new basic opportunity grant. swift passage of this amendment is critically needed by colleges and students in new york and throughout the country who are left in a state of doubt and confusion over which education programs will be funded.
. peter monahan was shot in the knee and received shrapnel in his face and rear in the 1968 tet offensive. after recovering from those injuries. he was accidentally shot in the spinal cord while on marine duty in maryland and is  paralyzed from the waist down and confined to a wheelchair. like many disabled vietnamera veterans. peter monahan has displayed a particular brand of drive and courage. entering providence college in 1974. peter majored in ecoics and received a degree last year. he has supplemented his pension with a firewood splitting business and is attempting to secure a small business administration loan in order that he might purchase his own store. peter spoke  of his achievements last wednesday. however. but of the frustration and prejudices which have haunted too many vietnam veterans. after fighting in this nations longest. most expensive. and least popular war. these men returned  to the tickertape parades and hoary ceremonies which have followed other conflicts. but to an american public anxious to leave behind the entire eilsode. the product of this attitude is a particularly disturbing situation. the overall suicide rate among returnees from vietnam is 23 percent higher than that of vets of the same age. of those who were married when they went to vietnam. 38 percent were separated or divorced within 6 months of their return. 20 percent continue to have less than a high school education. one survey of vietnam vets in metropolitan areas fould that more than 40 percent had alcohol problems and more than half had drug related problems. in the area of unemployment. some 340.000 have jobs at all. more than onequarter of all vietnam vets earn less than $7.000 a year. miity. disabled. and disadvantaged vets have serious unemployment problems. vietamera veterans have an unemployment rate which exceeds 11 percent and the rate for the disabled is fully 50 percent. recently. the senate approved both a drug and alcohol treatment program and a readjustment counseling program which were included in the veterans health care amendments of 1979. the $12.2 million authorized in s. 7 for psychological counseling is a start. but it is only that. as many as 1.7 million vietnam veterans may need readjustment counseling and we will have to consider an inative and expanded program. in terms of educational opportunities. the laws requirement that veterans use gi bill benefits within 10 years of discharge has severely hampered vietnam veterans. extension of the socalled delimitation date would allow many to take advantage of improved benefits. which were inadequately low in the past. we need to review the limitations of our employment initiatives. such as the help through industry retraining and employment (hire) program. and push ahead with alternate private sector employment programs. hire ii and the targeted tax credit for employers of vietnam vets are creative approaches which effectively address the employment situation. max cleland said last week. "vietnam veterans week is a symbolic gesturebut  an empty gesture." the week just past should alert the american people and this body that circumstances require a reordering and improvement of a number of government programs related directly to the problems of vietnam veterans. exiiibit 1
. congress has recognized that all children enrolled in public schools are entitled to equality of educational opportunity. i k that my colleagues and the american people need new evidence that this principle is far from realized. and therefore. i believe that congress should take a new and positive step toward bringing equality of educational opportunity closer to reality. i submit that congress should authorize an additional $2.5 billion a year in grants to states to improve equality of educational opportunity in public elementary and secondary schools. allotted to the states on the basis of the proportion of the states public school enrollment to the national total. the $2.5 billion a year of new funds would be made available to the states to distribute to local school districts for the purpose of improving equality of educational opportunity. allotted to the local districts on the basis of criteria of enrollment and relative need. this $2.5 billion authorization represents roughly the combined amount of title i and impact aid funds to be authorized in s. 1539. the esea legislation. thus the amendment roughly doubles the amount of federal compensatory education funds available to the states and local school districts. but under a revenuesharing approach  tied to title i on impact aid provisions. the state educational agency would apply to the commissioner of education for grants under a comprehensive plan of proposed programs. procedures. and reports. consistent with the objectives of the enacting legislation and general guidelines established by the commissioner. the application of the state educat.onal agency will be approved by the commissioner on the basis of the comprehensive plan. which must further meet objective criteria for equitable statewide distribution to local educational agencies. these criteria are to be developed by the commissioner. based on consideration of the public elementary and secondary school enrollment in the state. and relative need of local school districts within the state. the commissioner is authorized to withhold grant assistance for compliance with provisions of the act. procedures for disapproval by the state educational agency of local agency applications include ice and opportunity of hearing. likewise. state educational agencies would. under a modification i  propose to the amendment. be entitled to ice and opportunities for hearing in the case of disapproval by the commissioner of a states application for assistance. there also exists provision for state and local educational agencies to file for judicial review of any action of the commissioner. i will emphasize  that this is in way a "busing" amendment. however. its genesis can be traced to the emotional "busing" issue. as you k. this matter in varying forms has been under debate in the senate for the past week and is also under specific review by the supreme court of the united states in the detroit school case. i think the time is long past when we should be wasting our energies debating each other regarding equality of educational opportunities for all americans. the fact is that though substantial progress has been made. much is still undone. all sides of the argument agree that inequality of educational opportunity exists in our country. all sides concur in their desire to see such inequality eliminated. but there is where the agreement ends and the shouting begins. on the one hand you have those persons who would restrict the remedies which a court may apply to an unconstitutional situation. and on the other hand you have those who feel that the independence of the judiciary must be preserved.  let us get it straight that ody i k is for busing as the solution to inequality of educational opportunity in the united states. let us also get it straight that separate is  equal and were  going to live with inequality of educational opportunity in the united states. there are three alternatives. as i see it. we can pass a constitutional amendment against busing. the pro of that is that it does away with busing. if such an amendment could be passed. the con is that it does hing to create equality of educational opportunity. i think the use of the constitution as a legislative tool for every "hot" issue will eventually render that document worthless. the second alternative is that we can pass legislation prohibiting the courts from hearing or ruling on busing cases as a remedy. again. the pro is that it may do away with busing. the con does hing to create equality of educational opportunity. second. i think it violates the checks and balances as between the judicial and legislative branches of the government. remember. if we can legislatively limit the courts authority over busing today. we can do the same with the writ of habeas corpus tomorrow. that would involve all of us. in other words. the principle that is involved has to be removed from the emotional issue of this time. the principle has to last throughout all time. this principle is that the court has to have within its power the ability to order those remedies which in fact would bring to americans as a whole whatever rights are theirs. whatever rights have been denied to them. the third is to devise legislative solutions to improve equality of educational opportunities. such as this amendment seeks to accomplish. on the pro side. this is a positive step to improve equality of educational opportunity in school districts which do or do  have forced busing. second. it may reduce conditions which demand a judicial solution such as busing. there is a con side. it is expensive. also. i am saying this is a positive step. but only one step. comprehensive programs for superior public housing. recreation. and so forth. jire certainly necessary to achieve equality of educational and life opportunity. with this in mind. i am offering a revenuesharing proposal for $12.5 billion in new educational aid after 5 years. specifically geared to creating equality of education opportunity. in and of itself. this proposal is  unusual. any one of us could come into the chamber and advocate that we are going to spend more money on this program. and that is rather painless. but i make bones about the fact that the result of this program is going to cause a little pain. if indeed the solution suggested is worth anything. so i am making it clear  that whoever votes for this legislation will commit himself to bring to being a 1.5 percent surtax on all personal and corporate income taxes to produce at least $12.5 billion. the 1.5 percent surtax would raise roughly the needed revenues to meet the $2.5 billion a year authorized in the amendment. what are we talking about here. insofar as the impact of corporate and personal income taxes is concerned. total revenues raised by the surtax individual and corporate income tax revenue would be $2.6 billion. what is the impact on taxpayers in a family of four. with a $10.000 income. they would pay $13.58 in taxes per year. a single. individual taxpayer. earning $10.000. would pay an additional $22.95 per year. a family having a median income of $26.614 would pay $19.62 per year. i realize that the house of representatives has the power to raise revenues. i can include a surtax in my amendment. and it is  included. but there is a commitment on the part of each senator that voting or making a legislative history. which is going on right . is almost as good. if we truly believe in what we say about equality of educational opportunity. then we must make the commitment. and our commitment means something only if we bite the bullet and pay for it with more than emotional rhetoric.
. i am pleased that the senate will today consider s. 2561. the techogy related assistance for individuals with disabilities act of 1988. this legislation enjoys bipartisan support in both the house and senate on the development of a comprehensive approach to delivery of assistive techogy services for people with disabilities. most of us take for granted the techogical advances that .nrieh our daily lives. for individuuis with disabilities. the promise of techogy can literally mean the difference between a life of dependence and isolation. or a productive life in the mainstream of society. through techogy the door of opportunity can be opened for many people with disabilities. augmentative communication systems and personal computers can help assure a free appropriate public education for the child with a disability as well as enhance a clients ability to benefit from vocational rehabilitation. sophisticated assistive techogy such as electronic communication devices enable individuals who can speak to express themselves. and environmental control devices permit persons with limited functional abilities to op. crate telephones and to direct the use of a pencil or utensil in carrying out activities of daily living. these are just a few examples of the exciting developments in the area of assistive techogy. as a result of these advances. disabled individuals are becoming increasingly integrated into our educational system. our work force. and society at large. the role of the private sector in promoting opportunities for disabled employees to fully participate and contribute in the workplace is exemplified by champion international corp. in my home state of connecticut. their use of applied techogy has proven its worth both ecoically and in terms of productivity through the enhanced employee performance that occurs when techogical equipment and devices are available at the work. site. champion international has a long history of extending the capabilities of its workers. regardless of their disability. through the use of assistive techogy. it is an exemplary program. well worthy of replication nationwide. during recent hearings held by the subcommittee on the handicapped one theme became cle r: individuals who need assistive teck aology face a number of problems in obtaining such services and devices. often these services are  available at all. and when they are. there is single identifiable source for obtaining necessary referral information in order to secure what may be needed. unfortunately. the present service delivery system is fragmented at the federal. state. and local level. making access to techogy difficult. we can all attest to the fact that techogy makes many things in life easier. but for disabled individuals techogy goes farther in that it makes things possible. the challnnge is to stay abreast of the rapid techogical changes and assure that ptople with disabilities can have ae..ss to services and devices they need in order to fully participate in society. the legislation before us today will address the need for access to techogy by people with disabilities in a number of ways. first. this legislation will enable states to develop a comprehensive and coordinated approach for providing techogy and related assistance to people with disabilities. in addition. the act will promote research. training. and development of model service delivery programs at the national level. it will also enable the secretary of education to examine the feasibility of establishing a national information and referral network to assist states in their need for information and assistance. the act also mandates an important study on the financing of assistive techogy devices. to be undertaken by the national council on the handicapped. indeed. the financing of needed assistive techogy is one of the major problems encountered by people who need such assistance. in other words. the approach outlined in this legislation will ensure that existing techogy and future advances in this rapidly expanding field will be available to all people with disabilities who can benefit from them just a privileged few. finally. i would like to commend senator harkin for his exemplary leadership in developing this legislation. and also senator kerry. the former ranking member of the subcommittee on the handicapped. for his valuable contribution in this effort. i urge my colleagues to pass this important legislation and help us to eliminate many of the barriers to increased independence. productivity. and integration of people with disabilities.
. the efforts of the eeoc and other interested organizations to ascertain the existence and causes of racial discrimination in employment have been extremely helpful in promoting a better understanding of the nature of this terrible problem. such studies as the recent report entitled "negro participation in the apprenticeship training program" prepared by the university of texas department of ecoics pursuant to grant from the department of labor show that only part of the problem is attributable to overt discrimination. lack of interest and proper education are equally serious problemsand much more difficult ones to solve. one of the areas which we k least about. but which surely requires the most detailed study. concerns testing of applicants for employment. it is  merely a question of fair administration of tests. what we must concern ourselves with is much more fundamental. it is the nature of the tests themselves. experience has shown that many of the tests given to applicants for employment are quite weighted in favor of applicants with middleclass white backgrounds. furthermore. there is  only a question of weighing but also a question of suitability. many of the tests which are administered today seem to have little relevance to the jobs for which they are supposed to show qualifications. the eeoc has been well aware of this problem and has already given considerable study to it. the chairman of the commission recently gave an address on the subject to the greater philadelphia chamber of commerce which clearly and succinctly sets forth the nature of the problem. in view of the importance of this issue. and the pending bills. i ask unanimous consent that the chairmans address be printed in the record.
 nixon pointed out in his february 26 message to the congress: while saving money for the nations taxpayers. the new plan would direct federal funds to the school districts in greatest needconsidering both their income level and the federal impact upon their schools. reform of this programwhich would make it fair once again to all the american peoplewould save $392 million in fiscal year 1971 appropriations. i believe that the congress should have an opportunity to consider longoverdue reforms to the impact aid program. which was first enacted in 1950. all should agree however the reforms are received. that  that the extensive study authorized by the congress has been completed the time has finally come to commence action on updating this education aid program which already is stretching beyond $1 billion annually in entitlements. the fact that the reforms suggested are necessarily for the most part complex and technical in nature should  deter us from this task. i ask unanimous consent that a sectionbysection analysis of the bill be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
