finally. i think the president ought to annce our willingness to negotiate with the national liberation front as a negotiating party. this has been left implicit. but has  been expressed. even ambassador goldberg. in his expression of american policies. has had to leave that implicit rather than expressed. i think it ought to be expressed formally on the highest level. if we do all those things. we are then in the best posture before the world in regard to the vietnamese struggle. with all respect to those who have been concerned by statements of the republican coordinating committee. it is my belief that this is the general consensus in which republicans have taken part. let us remember that the sharp differences between the doves and the hawks have been  among republicans. but among democrats. and they still persist. there is a large number on the other side of the aisle who believe we should pull out of vietnam. or what is tantamount to pulling out of vietnam. in terms of our efforts there. i do  think that we should miss the forest for the trees. the president of the united states has had very effective support for the u.s. commitment from our miity leader. the senator from illis . and also republicans generally. in my judgment. he will continue to have it. we should  be confused by the statements saying that the republican side looks only to the resort of force in order to have success in vietnam. republicans support peace efforts. we support the movement for asian peace initiatives. we support the impending manila conference of nations which are endeavoring to help us. i hope in the days ahead a spokesman for my side of the aisle will speak out with respect to what has been done at the coordinating committee. to the effect that there is complete partisanship in our vietnam commitment. republicans have sought to bring about a feeling of unity onthe part of our country with respect to the struggle in vietnam. the impact of this should be understood by the electorate. in my judgment. whether one votes for candidate a or candidate b. it must be made clear that it is  a party issue. this kind of problem has never been a party issue in our country. i look with great dissatisfactioni deploreattempts to make it a party issue. it:will beour purpose in the days ahead to make clear that it is  a party issue. and that there is a real sense of unitycertainly on this. side of the aisleand the president has needed republican supportstrong support with respect to the u.s. commitment in vietnam. there will be republican support for efforts to bring about a negotiated settlement.
