. we must admonish "those who would lightly. undergo war in a spirit of mere frivolity. or of mere truculence"-harbaugh. william henry. "power and responsibilitythe life and times of theodore roosevelt." new york. 1961. page 292. he showed us that you can stand up to the russians. you can stand up to communists. you can stand up to aggression. but you dont have to be involved in a stupid war. it is only proper that in commemoration of theodore roosevelts birthday. we salute his greatness and call for comparable leadership to tackle and solve the difficult problems of today. in new york city as a police commissioner. theodore roosevelt brought civic reform. his worthy successor today is mayor john v. lindsay. my predecessor as the congressman from the 17th congressional district of new york. he later went on to become gover of the state of new york bringing brilliance and progress to state leadership. his worthy successor today in that office is gov. nelson a. rockefeller. we look forward to a republican of theodore roosevelts caliber leading the nation in the presidency. while. i. as a republican. have a special interest in theodore roosevelt. he belonged to the whole country regardless of political affiliation. i k that my colleagues. whatever their persuasion. are also interested. for example. our colleague. congressman robert g. stephens. jr.. of the 10th district of georgia. calls attention to the fact that t.r.s mother came from georgia. under unanimous consent. i am including congressman stephens letter to that effect and the source material from which it is derived.
madam president. as i said in my speech yesterday. every american will be deeply disquieted by the news in the press about west berlin and the riots at the wall. as headlined in the new york newspapers. and. i am sure. as headlined all over the country. what has occurred represents a very tough problem and calls for great discipline on the part of the people of west berlin and great understanding on our part. the provocation is absolutely intolerable. we understand that. provocations. though dramatized by the beastly and inhuman shooting down of the young east german who was trying to escape to freedom across the awful berlin wall. have etheless been occurring for months. indeed. the first anniversary of the wall was the occasion for the demonstrations. but the people of west berlin have been through the airlift in 1948 and 1949. at that time they showed great discipline and heroism when they were suffering en masse. and  alone in the particularized and very dramatic way which is epitomized by the wall and the separation of friends from friends and of families from families. our problem is that we can allow the policy of the united states. which might bring us to the alwayspresent danger of war through a conflict of force in berlin. to be made on the streets of berlin. therefore. i express the expectation that the subject will be dealt with on the highest level. i was very much disquieted to e in yesterdays press the failure of the mayor of berlin. the heroic and outstanding willy brandt. to caution his own people as to the implications of such acts in terms of driving the western powers. which are in berlin at such great risk and under such great responsibility. into some kind of difficult position with respect to the question of conflict in berlin. and to urge the people of berlin rather to stay their hands and restrain themselves. as horrible as the provocations are. i hope very much that in the days ahead our president and the state department will make our position crystal clear to chancellor adenauer and other german leaders. so that chancellor adenauer may communicate it to others. though we completely understand the problems which are erupting with such indignation and even violence on the streets of berlin. yet we can allow american or allied policy to be governed by that kind of situation. because the result might be contrary to what the provocations so justly deserve. so i express the hope and expectation which we have already expressed. that there will be an understanding. in terms of the conduct of the people of west berlin themselves. who have so much at stake. that. having given vent to their feelings so unmistakably. there  may be some sense of discipline in the situation. which would be far more conducive to ultimate success in the very thing they seek than pushing the allies into a corner from which they might take a route which would be very disagreeable to the maintenance of freedom in berlin. let us remember that the vice president has properly. and in the name of all american people. pledged our lives. our fortunes. and our sacred ho to the defense of freedom in berlin. let us take it very seriously. as we must. but let the people of west berlin themselves take it equally seriously.
