. i rise in support of h.r. 6400 as reported by the house judiciary committee. it is a sad commentary that after the civil rights acts of 1957. 1960. and 1964. and after supreme court decision after supreme court decision outlawing the white primary. the club primary. the grandfather clause and other discriminatory devices. we are still debating on the floor of the u.s. house of representatives whether cr  we are to put an end to secondclass citizenship in this nation. this time we must do the job once and for. all. we are witnessing a revolutiona revolution that is one of the most hopeful and exciting things that could happen to this nation. for its successful conclusion will effectively bring 20 million american citizens into the political process. last february. i visited selma. ala.. with two of my colleagues on this side of the aisle. the gentleman from maryland and the gentleman from new york . i was awed by the determination and conviction of the men and women whom we met. this determination survived intimidation and inhumanity and i have every confidence that it will continue to survive these conditions until full citizenship is guaranteed. a respected and dedicated clergyman from boston. james reeb. lost his life in selma. his death shocked and saddened millions of americans who knew that somehow we were all responsible for this senseless tragedy. speaking in boston. soon after his death. i said that there can be firstclass citizens anywhere in this country so long as there is secondclass citizenship for one group of americans. in my judgment we have reached the end of the line. if we do  enact the strongest possible legislation here. we make a mockery out of the democratic process. three days after our visit to selma. eight republican members of congress introduced a voting rights bill. we were subsequently joined by more than 20 of our republican colleagues. later in the session we introduced a second bill. prepared under the leadership of the gentleman from new york. congressman lindsay. providing for the elimination of the poll tax. and protection for citizens in exercising their first amendment and voting rights. while the bill before us does  include completely adequate protection for citizens in casting their ballots. i think that is an effective piece of legislation that should be enacted. by invalidating tests for voting that have been used time and time again to bar citizens from the polls. we can halt the public evasion and irresponsibility that has led so often to private violence. in the recent report of the u.s. civil rights commission on voting in mississippi. there is quoted an exchange between commission member dean griswold of the harvard law school and a mississippi registrar. when dean griswold asked the registrar to interpret a complicated provision of the mississippi constitution involving corporation taxation. which had been given to several negro applicants. the registrar was unable to answer. dean griswold said: i find it a little hard to see how citizens of mississippi are expected to interpret the section if the registrar is unable to do so and he is the person who grades the interpretation which is made by a citizen of mississippi. this bill will meet that need. i was pleased to see that the house judiciary committee has called for the outright prohibition against any state or political subdivision denying any person the right to register or to vote because of his failure to pay a poll tax or any other tax. throughout its history the poll tax has been inevitably linked with discrimination. the ed historian of the south. c. vann woodward. tells us that regardless of the variety and complexity of constitutional provisions to disfranchise the negro in the latter part of the 19th century. "they all contained the poll tax." other states added this device to their existing constitutions. just as do literacy tests. moral character tests. and voucher requirements encourage administrative arbitrariness and avoidance. so does the poll tax. the civil rights commission report on mississippi is replete with examples of the failure of mississippi sheriffs to accept the proffered tax payments. since the law requires that the tax be paid in 2 successive years. it is obvious how effective this tactic can be in continuing to disfranchise a significant number of citizens. failure to eliminate the poll tax here and  would merely throw it up as a last line of defense for those  deprived of literacy and similar tests. h.r. 6400 also effectively prevents the enactment of new and potentially discriminatory voting requirements by requiring prior approval by the district court. or the failure of the attorney general to disapprove. congressional power to enact h.r. 6400 is clear. as far back as 1939 the supreme court in lane against wilson declared that the language of the 15th amendment "nullifies sophisticated as well as simpleminded modes of discrimination." the devices at which this legislation is aimed are both simple minded and sophisticated: simple minded in their unalterable purpose to continue the disfranchisement of thousands of negro citizens. and sophisticated in the ingenuity with which the mechanisms of denial have been developed. i will  belabor the specific provisions of this measure as they have been thoroughly covered by other members. in my judgment. this legislation confronts us with a clear test of our democracy. we must open the doors of the democratic process to all our citizens. for without participation there can be progress. without involvement there can be initiative. h.r. 6400 must pass.
