 harry s truman on behalf of the government of the united states gave de facto recognition to the newly born state. becoming the first nation to do so. it wasnt until may 18. 1948. that the soviet union granted de jure recognition to israel. establishment of the state of israel came about after a bitter struggle in the united nations and in palestine where the jewish population was subjected to attacks by arab soldiers. on ember 29. 1947. united nations general assembly voted for the partition of palestine and establishment of a jewish state. an arab state. and an international zone of jerusalem. joined by an ecoic union. that day arab delegates informed the u. n. of their opposition. the following april. the united nations palestine commission reported to the u. n. that it was unable to implement the 1947 resolution because: powerful interests both in and outside palestine are defying the resolution of the general assembly and are engaged in a deliberate effort to alter by force the settlement envisaged therein. armed arab bands from neighboring arab states. together with local arab forces. are defeating the purposes of the resolution by acts of violence. israels proclamation of independence on may 14. 1948. pledged: 1. "the state of israel will be open to the immigration of jews from all the countries of their dispersion. will promote the development of the country for the benefit of all its inhabitants. will be based on the principles of liberty. justice. and peace. as conceived by the prophets of israel. will uphold the full social and political equality of all its citizens. without distinction of religion. race or sex. will guarantee freedom of religion. conscience. education. and culture. will safeguard the holy places of all religions. and will loyally uphold the principles of the united nations charter." 2. the proclamation calls "upon the arab inhabitants of the state of israel to preserve the ways of peace and play their part in the development of the state on the basis of full and equal citizenship and due representation in all its bodies and institutionsprovisional and permanent." 3. the proclamation extends its "hand in peace and neighborliness to all the neighboring states and their peoples" and invites them "to cooperate with the independent jewish nation for the common good of all." israel was attended at birth by war. boycott and the struggle of the great powers of the world for dominance in the middle east. the day after the declaration of independence the regular armies of egypt. iraq. jordan. leba. and syria launched an organized attack upon israel. after first proclaiming their intention to do so to the u. n. security council. simultaneously. the arab league initiated a blockade against israel. including a ban on all trade with the infant state. as well as denying to it the right to use the suez canal. that day israel opened its doors to the survivors of hitlerism in displaced persons camps and elsewhere and began the fulfillment of its pledge of free immigration to all jews seeking the same. on may 24. israel agreed to a ceasefire order from the u. n. security council but on may 26 the arab states rejected the order. that day the israel defense army was established under an ordinance issued by the provisional council of state. following the success of the israeli defense forces in pushing back the armies of the arab states and in lifting the siege of jerusalem. a truce was established by the united nations for a 30day period. new arab attacks began on october 15. 1948. with the capture of the negev as the target point. a week later the fighting ended with the isolation of the egyptian troops. the liberation of beersheba by israel. and the opening of free land communications to the negev settlements. on ember 15. israel renewed its offer of peace negotiations with the arabs. hostilities in southern israel ended on january 7. 1949. with the defeat of the egyptian invaders. an egyptianisraeli armistice agreement was signed on february 24. 1949. followed by an israelleba armistice agreement on march 23 and an israeljordan armistice agreement on april 23. three days before its first anniversary. israel was admitted to the united nations as a member. despite the seemingly neverending series of crises through which the young jewish nation struggled. a tremendous advancement has been achieved in israels first decade of existence. its three major objectives have been adhered to consistently. and in spite of the war with egypt in 1956a defensive move brought about by offensive maneuverings on the part of its arab neighborsit continues to emphasize its desire for peaceful relations with adjacent arab states. as with the rest of the world. it would require much more space than we have available for this essay to set down all that israel has accomplished in its first 10 years in improving its social and ecoic strength. but we can close out this tribute to a dedicated people who have refused under the most trying conditions imaginable to compromise in the slightest degree with their passionate determination first to achieve statehood and second to advance their new nation to one new height after the other. without citing some internal achievements. israels population in 10 years has grown to 1.872.000. almost tripling the 1948 figure. of this number. 864.000 entered the country after establishment of the state. half of these came from moslem countries in the middle east and th africa. the arab population of israel. all citizens of the state and enjoying equal rights. totals 204.000. agricultural production has increased to the point where 60 to 65 percent of local food consumption is obtained within israels borders. a total of 470 new agricultural villages has been established. land under cultivation has increased from 412.500 acres in 1948 to 930.000 acres in 1956. in the negev. there are 75 new settlements where e existed before. today. there are 250.000 irrigated acres. an increase of 300 percent. in 1948. there was little organized industry. . israels industries include steel. copper. pipes. tires and rubber goods. electrical appliances. paper products. refrigerators. radios. diesel engines. automobile assembly. fertilizers. and light tools. vocational training engages 15.3 percent of the population in agriculture and 42 percent in industry. mining and transportation. its chemical industry includes exploitation of the mineral resources of the dead sea and negev. israels water supply for industry and agriculture has been quadrupled.
if i may recapitulate for the senator. with his permission. could we say that certainly three things have emerged from this discussion. and it is  just our discussion but it concerns all of us. let us assume that a bid through unconditional cessation of bombing is desirable. but the president is  going to do it and so unhappily we have to lay that aside. what is left. the united nations is left. the distinguished majority leader is right about that. in stating that we have to be more aggressive about it. second is the cleai calculation of what we must do in the senate in terms of this resolution. in terms of its objectives and some nev mandate to supersede the outmoded mandate. third. that will lead to some consideration of the scale and time limit of our commitmentconditioned on selfhelpin vietnam. if we did that. that represents a policy that would rally a great many of the people in this country who are falling away in droves every day because they have lost confidence in what the administration is doing about the war. that it does  have the ability to grip the problem and do something about it.
