madam president. i would like to take a few moments to express my delight on consideration of legislation to expand the pettaquamscutt cove national wildlife refuge in rhode island. the pettaquamscutt cove national wildlife refuge was established in 1988 to protect valuable coastal wetlands that have been identified as important habitat for a diversity of speciesincluding the declining black duck population. the refuge is located between the towns of narragansett and south kingstown. ri. currently. its boundary encompasses 460 acres of salt marsh and surrounding forest habitat which is home to various species of waterfowl. wading birds. and shore birds and numerous small mammals. reptiles. and amphibians. this legislation expands the pettaquamscutt cove national wildlife refuge boundary to include a 100acre parcel kn as foddering farms acres. it also allows the u.s. fish and wildlife service to expand the refuge boundary to include other important habitat if and when suitable properties become available in the future. inclusion of the foddering farm acres property within the refuge provides a wonderful example of cooperation between the u.s. fish and wildlife service and private citizens. the 100acre foddering farm property. owned by the rotelli family. contains valuable wetland habitat for waterfowl and other species. the rotellis have indicated their willingness to donate a portion of the value of the property to the service. in fact. they have been working with. and waiting patiently for. the u.s. fish and wildlife service for several years. through their partial donation. the national wildlife refuge system gains valuable habitat at a bargain price. in order to assist the rotellis and ward off threats of development to foddering farm acres. it is imperative that we move this bill as expeditiously as possible. to that end. i am offering s. 1871. the pettaquamscutt cove national wildlife refuge legislation. as an amendment to h.r. 2679. the th wildlife refuge bill that was passed by the house of representatives on april 23. 1996. and reported out of the senate environment and public works committee on june 20. 1996. i would like to make clear that the attached pettaquamscutt cove provision is exactly the same as s. 1871. as amended. a bill that was reported out of the senate environment and public works committee on june 20. 1996. once again. i am pleased that the senate is considering the pettaquamscutt cove national wildlife refuge legislation. this bill will enable the u.s. fish and wildlife service to continue their efforts to work with rhode island islanders like the rotellis to protect the beautiful and important natural resources along rhode islands coast.
