. words are sorrowfully inadequate to express the grief that has been felt at the death of senator robert kennedy. and the utter frustration that this courageous and talented man could be taken from us in such a cruel and cowardly way. his career and his personal goals symbolize his dedication to the national life of this country and his belief in the dreams that made this and. he had the broadness of view and the imagination to be concerned with the course of america and the future of the world. yet also had the compassion and humanism to be deeply involved in securing the welfare and dignity of every individual. he was  afraid of the future.  of new ideas.  of facing vast problems in the context of todays world. and thus he was able to think creatively and act with a sense of urgency and yet with great vision. he died. as did his brother. for the majestic ideals which have given impulse to the american dream from the very beginning of this nation. we must  close our eyes and our minds under the burden of this profound shock of this terrible tragedy. we can allow his death to be separated from what he died for. it must serve. if we are to truly ho him. to affirm rather than deny the rights of man and the basic reason for this nation. the dark shadow cast over our land can be lifted only if we who are blessed with life work to insure that those ideals will one day be achieved. the congress must act. as must the entire nation. with idealism and a deep sense of social responsibility. this kind of contribution. and our success in letting every american share in the american dream. will be the greatest tribute possible.
. i should like to say to the senator that i have made a request of him that. since i shall be engaged in a conference on the poverty program next door. i would hope unanimous consent as to limitation of time will be requested. i am very cognizant of the problems of the senate. and mally it would be proper to arrive at a time limitation. but interested senators are so dispersed that it is impossible to consult with all senators who would wish to be heard upon the question which i shall raise. and i do  even k that i shall necessarily raise the point of order. or whatever other procedure is adopted. but it is just by way of safeguarding the rights of myself and everyone concerned. i k the senator well. and k he will protect us fully. even though momentarily one may be on the floor who is directly concerned.
. the bill i introduce with senator kennedy today seeks to safeguard the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in federally funded biomedical and behavioral research activities. when i first introduced my "protection of human subjects" bill in the 92d congresssince reintroduced in the 93d congress as s. 878i urged the department of health. education. and welfare to charge its distinguished ad hoc advisory panel reviewing the tragic tuskegee syphilis experiment also to determine the adequacy of the present nih ethical guidelines for research. which are the standards of conduct provided for in my bill. the final report of the tuskegee syphilis study ad hoc advsiory panel. publicly released less than 2 weeks ago. has responded to this charge. the panel underscored the need to develop new policies to protect the rights of patients involved in biomedical research. the advisory panels determination that the protection of human research subjects is a current serious and widespread problem has also been corroborated by the testimony of many witnesses at the recent series of hearings of the senate health subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am ranking miity member. the panel. as have many witnesses. concluded. and i quote: congress should establish a permanent body with the authority to regulate at least all federally supported research involving human subjects. whether it is conducted in intramural or extramural settings. or sponsored by dhew or other government agencies. such as the department of defence. ideally. the authority of this body should extend to all research activities. even those  federally supported. but such a proposal may raise major jurisdiction problems. the products of biomedical and behavioral research in the recent years have made a tremendous contribution to improving the quality of life for americans. the increased kledge of the human body and mind produced by this research has enabled medicine to conquer many of the diseases that have plagued mankind. there is doubt that we must continue to encourage and promote research into the great enigma of man and his world if we are to eventually overcome the abysmal depths of igance and disease. however. we must also be certain that the dignity and integrity of the individuals who are subjects of biomedical and behavioral research is protected. we must  overemphasize scientific progress at the expense of the rights of the individual. this bill is a further step forward in my legislative efforts to safeguard the rights and welfare of human subjects at risk in research. while it is true that much of the research involving human subjects at riskexclusive of human subject research and experimentation undertaken pursuant to the informed patient consent amendment of the food. drug. and cosmetic act which i authoredis done under the auspices of hew research guidelines assuring ethical guidance. the tuskegee syphilis study has shown these safeguards should be strengthened. therefore. i believe congress has a responsibility to assure meaningful legal controls on federally supported research activities involving human subjects and that is the goal of the bill we introduce today. the bill establishes a national commission to study the ethical. social. and legal implications of advances in biomedical research and techogy. the protection of human subjects in such research. and thereafter. first. develop the basic ethical principles which should underlie the conduct of biomedical and behavioral research involving human subjects and second. develop the policies necessary to insure these principles are adhered to in any federally supported research involving human subjects. until the commission establishes its biomedical and behavioral research ethical principles and policies. this bill i am introducing today with senator kennedy incorporates the provisions of my s. 878 and requires that each institution shall supervise its biomedical and behavioral research involving human subjects according to the nih guidelines. it is imperative that we maintain a constant vigil lest the zeal which first motivated and then impelled man forward in his neverending quest for enlightenment be like the sorcerers apprentice. exceeding its bounds and unfettered. cause us to outdistance our own capacity for commonsense and decency. at the same time. excessive rigidity in the regulation of human subject experimentation because of some improprieties in ethical selfregulation would. i believe be to the disadvantage of the individual and society. while civilized society can tolerate callous disregard of human rights for any purposenazi germanys atrocities in the name of clinical science being the most horrendous examplemankind would be badly served if we write rigid laws to govern research practices and scientific investigation. research. development. and the reduction to practice of new ideas are  carried out in a practical. ethical or legal vacuum and the public interest would  be served by an inflexible approach. the bill therefore outlines flexible operating procedures which can be adapted to a variety of federally funded grant and contract mechanisms.
. one other point and then i will be through. the demographic situation in our country where. because of the civil rights revolution in the south. blacks from the south poured into other cities. especially new york. and where. because the united states established and joined in establishing a commonwealth in puerto rico. 1 million puerto ricans moved to the united states. because they were american citizens and could go anywhere they chose. and they flocked into new york. they will be. all of these groups. in 10 to 20 years as good citizens. as hard working. as earning. as my parents. who came in the middle 1800s. my mother from what is  palestine. and my father from what was then the austrohungarian empirethey will be just as good. just as valid. and will  need the welfare any more than my parents did. but right  they can be. and yet new york. because of the kind of formulae enforced upon it in the senate and in the house of representatives is disadvantaged. it pays 25 percent of the bill which other cities do . and that comes to a neat $600 million a year. these are the inequities and the appeals which the city of new york. through the state of new york. is making. again. just to recapitulate very briefly: one. the state will be held. and should be held. responsible. every stateand my colleagues. i k. as a matter of fact. feel even more deeply than i do about this matter of states rights and state responsibility. and that is rightthe state will be the responsible party. there can be question about that. the most draconian measures will be called for and will be taken. and we must agree with that. but all we ask is that our appealmay i have 1 additional minute. senator eyrd. just to finish.
