. i have heard with great interest the many fine statements just made in favor of the motion. including the fine statement made by the assistant miity leader. i. too. am identified with this legislation and am one of that group. to which i am proud to belong. which fought this battle at times when this chamber was very cold toward the subject of civil rights. we have traveled a long way. the only issue at stake today is. shall we give 15 days of hearing. almost 3 weeks of elapsed time. to the judiciary -committee to report a bill. let us remember that the judiciary committee of the senate is kn as the graveyard of civil rights legislation. it has  reported a civil rights bill unless such bills have had date tags. this is a time when. by a vote of yea or nay. senators can show their determination that a bill shall be reported from the committee. in answer to the question of the proposed time. we must  only consider the duties of senators and how long the3 may hear testimony. we must also consider the people who have been denied the right to vote. have they  said often egh. "how long. 0 lord. how long must it be before we have this right." even those who are opposed to other civil rights legislation must concede that this is one right which people should have. it is secret that the old social order in the south is going. so far as this senator is concernd. it can go too fast if it is based on discrimination among americans based on the color of their skin. one of the most sacred rights is the right to vote. we considered it in 1957. 1960. and 1964. we accomplished a great deal in each case. but every time we got to the point of federal registrars. we backed away.  experience shows that only federal registrars will assure these rights. there may be many laws on the books of the states and of the united states. but they do  guarantee these rights. it is the function of the legislature. unless it is going to be overturned by the currents of time and history. to enact legislation which secures the rights of the people matter what other legislation is on the books that is  working. that is the acid test. a great deal has been said about the question of poll taxes. i say that the poll tax has perpetuated discrimination. this bill provides that only 1 years tax shall be required to be paid before voting in an election. if it is cut down to 1 year. it can be cut out entirely. that is what i shall be for. and that is what the bill of the socalled civil rights coalition calls for.
