. today marks the 113th anniversary of the hungarian revolution of march 15. 1848. which restored to that freedomloving nation the liberty it had cherished for nearly 1.000 years. it also is the 167th anniversary of the arrival in the commonwealth of massachusetts of that great hungarian hero. louis kossuth. and a band of fellow patriots. seeking political asylum and assistance for their cause. the heart of the bay state. with its innate love of independence. opened wide to them. the historic parallel is interesting: many of kossuths followers remained in the boston area. they have contributed immeasurably to our heritage and our cultureand to the progress of my own fifth district. a century later. tragic events again sent hungarian refugees to our shores. again. numbers of them have chosen to make their homes in massachusetts. i am proud of the number that reside in my districtuseful. productive citizens. making their own fine contributions to their communities. this year. the celebration of the national holiday of their homeland precedes united nations debate on the problem of hungary. along with my other colleagues in this congress. i received a memorandum from former prime minister ferene nagy.  chairman of the washington office of magyar bizottsag. i insert this stirring message at this point in my remarks:
. on friday last. 10 senators transmitted to the chairman of the committee on the judiciary of the senate an urgent request for hearings on immigration bills. particularly those relating to refugees and escapees. there are some 23.000 hungarian refugees in this country alone. who are awaiting regularization of their status. hungarian teenagers who fought for freedom in hungary are languishing in austria and other places in europe. without a fair opportunity for us to take our fair share. we feel very strongly that to implement the resolution adopted by this body only last week. calling for action on the united nations special report on hungary. we need to do something. and to do it at this session. the need is urgent. and we should do something immediately. upon this immigration subject. i should like to read at this point the last paragraph of the statement sent to the chairman of the committee on the judiciary by the 10 senators to whom i have referred: as the hungarian refugee situation remains unresolved and as the peoples of the world look to the representatives of the people of the united states. the congress. for action. the necessity for enactment of the pending legislation becomes more urgent. we believe that the time has come for your committee to take affirmative action if any progress is to be made on this vital problem at this session of the congress. as we are deeply convinced it must be in the national interest. i point out that this situation affects also refugees from the nasser dictatorship in egypt. as well as refugees from the hungarian terror of the communists. i k of hing which could remind the world more effectively of what humanitarism really means than our action in again recalling to the world the heroic example set by the great hungarian people by admitting some of these heroic refugees. the decks are  cleared for the committee on the judiciary. we will be considering the subject of civil rights in the senate. and i hope very much that the committee will take this time for the purpose of considering this urgently essential immigration legislation.
i should like to make one further point. let us remember that the united nations proposal. had it been followed through. would have represented an equitable world judgment on the situation. the thing was broken wide open by the feeling on the part of the arab states that they wanted to push what was then israel into the sea. be that as it may. all those things being in the record and being historic. i can tell the senator from utah that i will certainly do my utmost to make my contribution to taking hold of the palestinearab refugee situation. because i believe at this particular stage it offers very real possibilities.
i. too. have visited an arab refugee camp on the gaza strip during the small moment of time it was possible for me to do that. in 1956. i think the united nations has done an outstanding job. i will say. considering the limitations which have been put upon it. i do  wish my colleague to join me in the statement i am about to make. but i feel deeply that this is a reproach mainly to the arab states. which have stood in the way of resettlement and of repatriation. or some combination of both. i understand. i think. the feelings of my colleague. but a study of this matter and of its history indicates reproach to the united nations. which is more than anxious to do something about the problem. the same is true with respect to the civilized world. we have had appropriations earmarked by the congress lying in the bank. completely fallow. because it was  possible to use them due to the fact that the arab states will do hing about cooperating in an effort to bring about resettlement or repatriation of these people. i repeat. i am  trying to induce my colleague to agree with me. i wish to make it very clear that we may have a disagreement on this point. but i would be less than truthful if i did  state my own views.
in response to the first question. as to whether israels borders have or have  been violated. of course they were violated very materially in the situation which preceded the united nations action taken in response to moving into the suez area in 1956. in addition. it is asserted that the borders are being violated all the time by firing across the border. especially in the sea of galilee area. by syrian forces posted on the other side. so that. coupling the socalled fedayeen raids. which preceded the 1956 act and the recurrent firing. which have taken place since that time. certainly in the galilee area. one can say that the borders of israel have  been violated. the third aspect. which i will develop in the course of my remarks in a few moments. is the fact that the mounting course of events. including the arms race. gives indication of the grave threats to israels independence and security. it is such a small country. and occupies such a small space. that it is entirely possible that we could be faced with a fait accompli in one aftern. israel is located continguous to those who swear that its elimination is their unswerving policy. therefore. we can take any comfort from the fact that it has  had its borders actually violated. as was the case in 1948. the second point deals with the united nations patrol. there is today a force which continues to patrol the border between israel and egypt. and that relates to the border in the socalled gaza strip. and the border considerably to the south. in the socalled sharmelsheikh area. considering modern means of warfare and the development of rockets. as well as naval power in the possession of egypt. and access to israel from syria. which is its thern neighbor. which is  a part of the tripartite united arab republic. it is  believed that the united nations patrol gives any real protection. and that therefore a more definitive commitment. of the kind that i have described. is necessary. the third point raises the question: are the borders  guaranteed. the only guarantee is the tripartite declaration of may 1950. i have explained that there are two points as to that. first. it is unilateral in character. second. it has never been implemented by any defense planning or anything else that anyone ks of. and it is  widely regarded as being somewhat blunted by the passage of time and many changed circumstances. however. it is an effective declaration. and i believe that in the event of trouble the united states. as well as great britain and france. would take action. however it is certainly  a clear egh understanding to deter arab action or that israel could rely on it for help to come reasonably and effectively. it is  a clear commitment. however. the situation is such that it requires something far more definitive than anything that  exists.
i am a member of the senators subcommittee. first. i wish to state that i stand with the senator in his desire to have the united nations facilities used in this respect. the u.n. can play a very constructive role in vietnam and particularly in the refugee problem. i. too. have had the privilege of talking with the agencies. i have talked in particular to prince sadri khan. the high commissioner of the u.n. for refugees. we agree that it would be a most constructive act. so i join with my colleague in his efforts. i would like to make one point. i was in vietnam. as was the distinguished senator from massachusetts. united states policy is that the saigon government is essentially responsible for the needs of the refugees. and that this government is  doing as well as it could or should about the refugees. the administration and care of the refugees in refugee camps is the responsibility of the saigon government. i think that should be emphasized. but it is also true. and must be equally emphasized. that the united states has the responsibility to prod the saigon government into taking more effective measures for and making more funds available to the refugees. the president of the united states says that we are interested in these unhappy people. but the amount of money budgeted to help them does  show a great egh recognition of the humanitarian problem of the refugees. we must give more. and we must see that what we do give actually reaches the hands of the people who need it.
