i understand. but those who would come from the federal government. as the senator provides in his amendment. would probably come from the executive department. aher difference would be that i would give the commission subpena power. which the senator does  do. additional differences. which i believe are very important to me and to the cosponsors of the amendment. deal with the administration and duties of the commission. i should like to call these matters to the attention of the senator.  in an adversary sense. but in the sense of trying to work out what would be best from the standpoint of what can be done. for example. under "duties of the commission." the senator speaks of the commission. which he proposes. as investigating into "the import and export policies and practices of foreign nations with respect to food and fiber and the effect of those policies on the united states." a commission anxious to comply with the letter of this mandate might conclude that such language excludes such a matter of policy as the most effective systems of domestic production. a policy matter might be considered such as the classic position of the senator from vermont . which is that we should never restrain production. but that we should have all the production we can. because it is a blessing and that we must find some way of husbanding and storing that great production. aher difference is that the senators proposal provides that the commission shall give special consideration to "the various systems used by this nation for marketing of agricultural commodities and products." special emphasis is placed on marketing. i contrast that with my provision to have the commission consider the effectiveness of price support and production controls. including acreage allotments and production and marketing quotas. which may be in effect for such commodities. the emphasis here is upon the most effective methods of production. rather than on marketing. there is aher point. which i do  find at all in the senators amendment. and that is an estimate of the future requirements of the united states and of the world for such commodities. as is provided in my amendment. again this goes to the fact that if a great and bountiful providence has given us a great and bountiful country which can produce so much in agricultural goods. shall we artificially limit this productive capacity. in addition. the commission which i have proposed would be asked to look into the question of the need for ecoic adjustment and assistance to the farmer who decides to leave the farm for one reason or aher. it would call for a study of vocational retraining and the requirements for teaching new and useful technical skills to such farmers. relocation costs and resettlement assistance would be considered. the need for facilities to aid in the finding of alternative employment would be reviewed. consideration of such matters may provide a new and valuable basis for a solution to farm problems. in short. and to summarize. if it is likely that the amendment may be acceptable to the committee. and with the restrictions the senator may put upon it  to hire excess staffalthough i think the senator should  unduly restrict himself in this regard. and thus emasculate immediately what he is trying to do in a constructive wayare we  better off to treat this proposal quite seriously by developing a hoovertype commission. which will really. in a most considered way. give to the american people a look at the whole agricultural program on a road perhaps quite apart from the one we are traveling. in a sense. we are stuck on the road we are traveling. it is hard for the department of agriculture so close to the problem. to view it in proper perspective. as the senator from iowa says. the department has thousands of employees and spends hundreds of millions of dollars. congressional committees have a hard egh time keeping up with legislation pending from day to day and year to year. without casting their eyes about to see what objectives ought to be realized. that is all the more reason for a really authoritative. serious job to be done in government by a commission with the participation of congress. i think that was the genius of the hoover commission. it could take a totally fresh look and report to the congress: "we are sorry. boys. if you do  like it. but what you are doing is about all that can be done." or. "you are quite wrong. but there is aher way in which to accomplish the purpose. which will take us off the seeming treadmill on which we are constantly engaged." the consumers in the cities will one day express their anguish over the billions of dollars spent in this effort. which translates itself frequently into increasing prices for food or into short supplies of food. or simply into the spending of their taxes for a purpose which they find it hard to understand. on behalf of senator keating. senator tower. and myself. i submit to the senator the idea that we should try to create a commission which will really be purposeful. we should try to draft and construct it so that it will be acceptable to the committee. to enable it to make a really effective contribution. we should try to see if we can take some better. more effective road in respect of what seems to be a dead end for all of us in agricultural policy.
