. on december 3. of last year i chaired a hearing in the committee on energy and natural resources on three legislative proposals regarding the territories. since that time the committee has reported two of the measures unanimously. h.r. 2478 and senate joint resolution 192. and they are  ready for consideration by the full senate. i am pleased to be joined by my distinguished colleagues. the chairman and ranking member of the committee. senators mcclure and johnstoii. in offering an amendment to one of these territorial measures. h.r. 2478. this amendment has five parts. first. it would replace the text of section 2 in order to clarify the use of ecoic development loan funds for capital improvement projects in the thern mariana islands. second. it would replace the text of section 4 to respond to a request from the college of the virgin islands that the authorization for the eastern caribbean center be shifted from the secretary of the interior to the agency for international development. third. the amendment would make a technical change in section 8. fourth. the amendment adds a new section to the bill granting land grant status to the thern mariana college. this new section is a slight modification of one of the committee amendments reported with h.r. 2478 and which was considered and approved by the committee. finally. the fifth purpose of this amendment is to add the provisions of senate joint resolution 192. as amended. to the end of h.r. 2478 and thereby combine the two reported measures as one. as combined with senate joint resolution 192. h.r. 2478 will have 15 provisions regarding the territories. some of these items. such as continuation of financial assistance to the thern mariana islands. are of critical importance. other provisions are less critical but are important for enacting several necessary authorizations. clarifying amendments and program modifications designed to meet the needs of the u.s. territories of guam. the thern mariana islands. american samoa. and the virgin islands. i would like to ackledge the efforts of the members and staff of several subcommittees for their cooperation and assistance in developing these provisions. these subcommittees are: the subcommittee on aviation. the subcommittee on environmental pollution. the subcommittee on western hemisphere affairs. the subcommittee on immigration and refugee policy and the subcommittee on education. arts and humanities. i have prepared a sectionbysection analysis of the 15 provisions. as amended. i urge my colleagues to join with us in adoption of this amendment and in passage of h.r. 2478. i ask unanimous consent that the sectionbysection analysis be printed in the record.
