. with respect to the bill to create a national seashore at fire island. i am hoed to join with my colleague from new york. i have actually lived on fire island. in successive summers. for 4 years. and k it wellpersonally. when the matter first arose as an issue as to what should be done with it. whether a road should be built on it. as contemplated by plans by  of the new york state park commission. or whether it should be left in its present condition. where there are some 18 cottage communities. i gave the matter considerable thought and consulted with many who lived there. and gave the place my personal inspection again. though i knew it well. in the course of the whole inquiry i came to the conclusion that the establishment there of a national seashore was the most logical one. i therefore joined with my colleague from new york in the sponsorship of this bill with great personal conviction. fire island is a 31mile sandbar off the south shore of long islandan area of mostly unspoiled natural beauty just 50 miles from new york city. it is only about 2.000 feet wide at its widest point and in many places is less than 500 feet wide. yet it is one of the most magnificent and most famous strips of oceanfront in the world. fire island is one of the last unspoiled stretches of natural beach left on the east coast. and unspoiled beach is becoming one o. the greatest rarities in the united states. the growth of income and population has speeded up commercial development and increased real estate values to the point where time is running out on opportunities to preserve such areas for the enjoyment of all the people of the united states. if action is  taken soon. this priceless piece of real estate will disappear forever under the encroaching forces of development. that is the reason i have joined with senator keating today in sponsoring this legislation to establish a fire island national seashore. the total acreage involved in our bill is 7.500 acres of shorefront. vegetation. submerged and wetlands which are  developed. extending from the federal reservation at fire island lighthouse to moriches inlet. in my view. this is the soundest approach. for it would preserve as much of fire island as possible. but i recognize that there are varying views as to the area on fire island which should be included in a national seashore park. i am confident. however. that a consensus will be arrived at. on the basis of the recommendations of the interior department. as well as the testimony of the various experts in the field before the appropriate congressional committees. the 7.500 acres involved is  a large area when you consider the 36.000 acres in the newly formed cape cod national seashore. but because fire island is so narrow and long. there is as much ocean shoreline on fire island as there is on cape cod and even more. if the great south bay is included. this areathe great south bay. between fire island and the south shore of long islandis  only a mecca for boating. fishing. and sheltered swimming. but is a ma~or migratory bird center and contains several areas. including the unique sunken forest. with some of the most ancient holly on the continent. most proposals for national seashores have stirred major controversies in the past. happily. except for details. this is  true in the case of fire island. under this and several preceding administrations. the national park service has consistently singled out fire island as part of "our vanishing shoreline" worthy of preservation. in 1955. during the eisenhower administration. the national park service conducted a survey of 3.700 miles of gulf and atlantic shoreline and recommended taking fire island into the national park system. secretary of the interior stewart l. udall has indicated his strong support for creation of the fire island national seashore and has said he would prefer that the island be kept as much as possible in its natural state while protecting the area for maximum public use. the residents. themselves. of the 18 summer cottage communities on the island are also in favor of the national seashore as well as the suffolk county board of supervisors and the administrations of the two townships most directly affected. islip and brookhaven. the local chambers of commerce. leagues of women voters. sportsmen and conservationist groups. and the leading newspapers in new york are also behind this movement. with such support. we should be able to move rapidly toward establishment of the fire island national seashore. the federal government has already made a major investment in this property. the u.s. army corps of engineers is  embarked upon an 83mile federalstate beach erosion control and hurricane protection project which will involve. according to present plans. substantial work on fire island. by 1965. more than $11 million of federal. state. and local funds will be spent on fire island in order to protect hundreds of millions of dollars worth of property on the mainland for which the island serves as a barrier beach against the onslaughts of the atlantic ocean. this is aher reason why the entire dune and oceanfront should be preserved for the public instead of having these public funds benefit commercial developers. secretary udall has said that "we need diversity of recreational opportunity. and in particular. we need to provide for the preservation of natural open spaces free of automobile traffic. parking lots and hot dog stands." fire island is one of the last remaining opportunities to provide diversified recreational facilities easily accessible to almost 20 percent of the population of the united states. it is within a few hours traveling distance of the entire metropolitan complex extending from boston to washington. the cost per acre of fire island is probably higher than the costs of other national parks. but the actual cost in terms of potential use is considerably lower. preservation  of this natural treasure for all the people is one of the greatest ecoic bargains available to us. in a few years. at the present rate of development. we longer will have the chance. the farsighted planners who acquired central park and jones beach for the public are vindicated today. robert moses has estimated that jones beach land today would be worth $10.000 an acre and will probably be three to five times that amount in aher generation. as one who has had the pleasure of spending several summers on fire island with my family. i can personally testify that this represents a rare opportunity for our nation to preserve a stretch of oceanfront which our grandchildren and succeeding generations will be able to see and enjoy as god created it. with time so short. i fervently hope this administration. the interior department and congress will act promptly to preserve a natural asset which is slipping away and can never return once lost.
