. reports of the administration of salk vaccine to adults and others  in the priority groups are deeply shocking. the public. whose contributions made the salk vaccine possible. the parents whose children are of the ages most susceptible to the dread ravages of polio. and the overwhelming number of parents and citizens who respect tha priorities set by medical authorities and are quietly awaiting their turn. have every right to expect that immediate steps be taken to insure fair distribution throughout the country. there is dispute about the fact of a shortage. so long as the shortage continues. we are confronted with the unfortunate but. to my mind. undeniable. fact that voluntary system of distribution can be expected to withstand the many various pressures for evasion. whether these pressures arise from natural parental zeal or from selfish fear or cupidity. does  matter. the interests of all the children of the land are involved. and our children come first. doctors themselves will. i believe. welcome for the most part the institution of a distribution system under federal control. this is  because most doctors will  respect to the full the priorities already established. profession has set itself higher standards of conduct and e is more scrupulous in their observance. but today many doctors find themselves besieged. by anxious parents. by patients asking. in some cases threatening. for injections to which they may or may  be entitled. and for which the doctors may or may  have the necessary supply of vaccine. i have therefore been very glad to join in sponsoring the joint resolution introduced by the senior senator from new york . directing the secretary of health. welfare. and education. to establish an orderly and fair distribution system throughout the country during the period of shortage. this measure is a purely temporary measure. its terms will expire whenever the secretary finds that the shortage is ended. i regard it as in wise setting a precedent. but rather as the fitting response of the congress to a national situation which is both acute and unique. i hope congress will act on this proposal promptly. but inevitably there will be some delay. in the interim. i am confident that the administration will take whatever steps are possible. perhaps through a voluntary embargo on commercial shipments. to insure that all presently available vaccine will be channeled to school systems and educational institutions to take care of those chidren at the most affected age levels.
