there is  one of us who does  enjoy the privileges of being a u.s. senator. they are really great. there are also some really tough times and disagreeable times. and i think we live in those times right . what we are  paid to do as leaders of this nation is to cut and run. we have to try to make sense out of what is being proposed. there is arguing the fact that there is an uncontrolled urge to spend on the part of too many in government at all levels. but that does  mean to say that the system is a bad system. i think this element of choice is something that we had best confront . maybe. there will be those who will want to avoid these issues tntil after the elections are over. that would be the safe way. however. i would rather put it to a test right . when my colleagues review this budget and see what is in here. and they recognize the fact it is way below the budget of last year and below the budget estimates for this fiscal year. i am confident that they will come to their senses. they will make the senator from delaware do what i am doing . stand up and justify every single one of the items in this bill as to why it should be cut 2 percent. if the senator from delaware is wiflnto do that. i will be glad to go ahead and relinquish the floor. but he is . he might have a few choice little matters of interest to him. but  the kind of detailed work that is involved here. it is merely to go home and say. "i cut it 2 percent." well. we are going to make sure that. when he goes home. everybody will. k exactly what it is that he cut 2 percent. specifically. he cut law enforcement 2 percent. drug enforcement 2 percent. the pursuit of organized crime 2 percent. our foreign relations efforts 2 pervant. and ecoic equality. civil rights 2 percent. it was  money thrown away that was cut 2 percent. it was  pride money that was cut 2 percent. rather. in this particular appropriations. much of the backbone of everything that this nation does in a constructive way was cut 2 percent. the department of state budget which i will  get into is probably the toughest one to stand here and justify: the committee recommends an appropriation of $661.000.000. an increase of $57.423.000 over the 1978 appropriations to date. the amount recommended is $1.117.000 under the budget estimate and $661.000.000 over the amount allowed by the house. and will support a total of 16.681 permanent positions. these funds are for the formulation and execution of the foreign policy of the united states. including the conduct of diplomatic relations with international organizations. and related activities. the increase over the current appropriation is to cover discretionary increases such as annualization of wage increases. price increases. increased workload in the consular and passport areas. and other discretionary increases. the amount recommended will also provide for improved support of the departments programs in such areas as training. passport activities. the travel document and issuance system. administrative support and equipment. the committee has approved $2.000.000 requested for communications terminal equipment. a memorandum of agreement between the departments of state and defense providing for a unified diplomatic telecommunications services (dts) is currently being revised to avoid unnecessary duplication of overseas communication systems. as this memorandum is  nearing final form the committee believes it is prudent to provide these funds for the needed communications terminal equipment to continue modernization of the departments vital worldwide communications system. the committee has the departments assurance that it will make every possible effort to insure that there is unnecessary duplication with any other government agency in the operation of its communication system within the dts.
. apparently. it was considered impossible or unwise to call up the rule on this bill this evening. as we understood was planned. however. as i listened to the anncement of the program for tomorrow. including the suspensions. i understood that this bill would be the first order of legislative business and would be considered even ahead of any of the suspensions. it was  my intention tonight and it will  be my intention tomorrow morning to take any more of the time of my colleagues than i believe absolutely essential in order to place the basic facts in the record and before those who may be present while i am convinced that the proposal is unwise and that we will regret it. if it passes the house. i have undertaken to outline. at least. the fundamental reasons for my opposition in the miity report i filed july 9 as part ii of report  2530 accompanying this bill. copies of that miity report were available at the desk this aftern. and i assume they will be here tomorrow. in addition to that. i have taken four special orders so as to present for the consideration of those who might be interested additional data i felt could be helpful. the following are the citations in the record covering those special orders: first. july 18. beginning at page 13418. second. july 19. beginning at page third. july 23. beginning *at page fourth. july 24. beginning at page the testimony before the subcommittee is in the last part of the hearings on civil air policy. beginning at page 541 on april 18. 1956. and covering some 64.pages of 628 pages of hearings. in view of the interest which has been expressed to me by a number of my colleagues. i shall exercise the privilege. unless someone else does. of making the constitutional point of quorum before we reach the stage of actual debate upon the bill and possibly also when the bill is to be read for amendment. as i stated in my special order of tuesday. july 24. i intend to offer the amendment recommended by the bureau of the budget. which i have had printed in the record of that date at the top of the third column on page 14305. it has been suggested to me that a possible point of order might be raised to the proposed amendment. i hope that will  be done because i feel strongly that the members of the house should have a full opportunity of expressing their individual judgments as to the inclusion of this amendment in the bill. particularly since it is a constructive suggestion made by the bureau of the budget. in recognition of the fact that a problem does exist and since it has received the specific endorsement of the comptroller general of the united states in his letter to me of july .17. which i placed in the record july 18 at page 13419. and has received also the specific and reasoned endorsement of vice chairman joseph p. adams of the civil aeronautics board in his letter to me of july 16. which i placed in the record of july 18 at page 13421and i call particular attention to the single paragraph at page 13421 entitled "budget bureau amendment". it seems to me it would be most unfortunate if the members of the house as a whole were to be deprived of the opportunity to express their considered opinions as to the wisdom of this recommendation. i think this is particularly true since we all recognize that in the va§t majority of instances legislative committees do consider such amendments on their merits without regard to any technical application of the doctrine of strict germaneness. however. if the point of order is made. i shall be prepared to present briefly my reasons for believing that the point of order should be overruled and i hope that it will be overruled. if the amendment is  approved by those who may be present to express themselves when the vote is taken in the committee of the whole. it is my intention to incorporate it in a motion to recommit and seek recognition to offer that motion because i firmly believe that the decision should be made by the full membership of the house. quite irrespective of what the result of that decision may be. it seems to me particularly important that this opportunity should be available to all members of the house in view of the strong opposition of all the government departments. in terms of the reasons they have expressed for their opposition and in view of the current proceeding before the civil aeronautics board. which was begun on april 7. and which on july 3 reached the stage of a report of a prehearing conference. in it 33 airlines.  receiving subsidiesthe only ones who would benefit by the passage of this billare parties. i have already cited the excellent brief paragraph in the statement of vice chairman adams of the civil aeronautics board before the subcommittee on transportation and communications of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce on april 20. 13 days after the cab proceeding started. i want to restate  that single sentence since it expresses so succinctly and reasonably the fundamental reason why i believe the house should defer further consideration of this proposal at this very late hour in this session in order to have before it next year the considered decision and recommendations of the board. grounded upon a thorough and complete ecoic report rather than a brief hearing on one day. mainly of the proponents of this bill. vice chairman adams said: i consider this kind of proceeding the best approach to the problem because it looks toward a policy consistent with the scheme of the civil aeronautics act. fully supported by a complete ecoic record. and geared as closely as possible to the individual needs of the carrier. i submit it would be sheer folly for us tp ige that advice. quite irrespective of the pressure exerted even this aftern. apparently at the behest of pan american. the most vigorous. persistent. and demanding of those who urge us to support this proposal. i can only express regret that it has been stupid egh to advocate this selfish windfall for it on the basis of some alleged beneficial results in our relations with our neighboring friends to the south. i  definitely challenge the pan am lobbyists. who i assume will be outside this chamber at 10 oclock tomorrow. as they have been this aftern. to submit one scintilla of credible evidence that lassage of this bill will benefit anyone 6ut pan am and its select companions in unwarranted windfalls. in depreciation on top of depreciation. in double subsidies. if pan am can do so. i will admit it and withdraw my miity report on this floor tomorrow. if it can or will  officially do this. i submit we have every right and duty to reject this bill in the interest of the taxpayers whose taxes pan am and its chosen few airlines want to raid.
. a few days ago the senate space committee voted to strike the authorization of $5 million for a new electronics research center proposed for the boston area. unfortunately. in my view. the committee subsequently reconsidered its action and voted to approve the item. true. in reversing its earlier vote. the committee kept a requirement for submission of detailed study of the geographic location of the proposed center prior to the expenditure of funds. there is doubt in my mind. however. that every member of our committee ks  what that study will conclude. as i said in committee. i believe we would have been far wiser at least to defer this project until its implications and all possible alternatives could have been fully explored. since i first raised questions about this project. this has been my basic concern throughout. is the only way we can secure adequate competence in electronics in our space program by the establishment of still aher huge government laboratory. i am  satisfied that it is. the government already plays a very large role in electronics research and development work. i nearly 80 percent of all the research and development in electronics is currently being financed by the government or done in house by government agencies. that is an extraordinary situation. before extending the already predominant role of the government in electronics research. it would seem to me every effort should be made to ascertain whether the objective could  be as effectively achieved through the use of private resources. in both industry and universities. in combination with existing government electronics capabilities. i am impressed by the fact that nasa officials put forward the center.  as vital to the mantothemoon and other space programs immediately ahead. but primarily as of value long rangein the 1970s. and thereafter. on the basis of our experience with some other government laboratories. it is at all clear to me that a government facility is the most effective way to maintain scientific preeminence.. the chroogy and procedures surrounding the anncement of the center were. to say the least. unusual. it was annced shortly after the election. by the white house. and in december appeared full blown. site included. in the budget. there was analysis of alternative possibilities.  comparative evaluation of sites. statement of criteria used. until long after the budget request reached the congress. it is  my habit to tilt at windmills. and clearly the second committee vote settled the matter. i would like. however. at this point in my remarks to have printed in the record an editorial from the new york times of saturday. august 3. 1963. which will. i believe. strike a responsive chord around the country.
. one of the strongest instruments we have for bringing about better understanding of the united states and its policies throughout the world is the u.s. information agency. this is the major instrument by which we inform the free world as well as those in countries that are behind the iron curtain what we believe in and what we are doing to advance the cause of peace and freedom. and it operates in all available mediaradio. newspapers. periodicals. books. movies. lectures. tv programs. exhibits. and so forth. usia is doing a tremendous job with what it has. but it does  have egh to compete adequately with the multibillion dollar soviet propaganda machine or with the communist chinese. last year. for example. the communists published 40 million books in bloc languages and inspired the publishing of 100 million more. during the same period usia published only 5 million books. there is an important responsibility to be met in the developing areas of the world. in asia. in africa. and in latin america. and the united states can afford to be second best. the cold war is an ideological war. and in this aspect of the struggle for mens minds. we should  permit the united states to be outspent by the communistbloc countries. the current usia budget request for 1964 is $157.9 million. far less than huge sums which the soviets and communist china are spending. in spite of this severe competition. the usia budget request has been cut by $15 million. an amount which could have the effect of curtailing the program which usia specialists and planners had projected in latin america. the amount requested by usia must be related to the many areas and heavy responsibility it must undertake for projecting ideas and information about the united states and its policies. it is considerably less than some of our big corporations spend to sell their products. on its limited budget usia covers a remarkably broad range of activities. usia. for example. helps american organizations to develop new international contacts and broaden existing oversea relationships through their own communications channels in order to build confidence abroad in the principles and practices of american democracy. through its office of private cooperation it forwards informational materials on u.s. foreign policy statements to the head offces of american business firms for further dissemination to their representatives abroad. about 450 firms are cooperating in this project which involves an estimated 7.000 american business representatives overseas. many business firms are cooperating in efforts to explain in an overseas country the value of american business investment and the american system of private enterprise. all of these effortsthe special programs to tell the story of the betrayal of the cuban revolution by castro. contacts with special groups. materials for labor leaders. students. intellectuals. and the cultural elite in countries which are priority targets of communist propagandathese call for an adequate budget. at the very least i would hope that the senate will restore the full amount of the requested appropriation of $157.9 million. as part of my remarks. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record. two news dispatches in the washington post. june 20 and 21 respectively. a letter by tom m. hopkinson. account supervisor of milburn mccarthy associates. of new york city. written to representative john v. lindsay. and the document entitled "the eighteenth report of the united states advisory commission on information." january 1963. which analyzes the activities of usia for the calendar year 1962.
. i have in the past year directed a series of letters to various departments and agencies of the federal government asking their views as to discriminatory uses of federal funds which are used to support various federalstate programs under their jurisdiction. on july 2 and 10. 1963. i placed in the congressional record the bulk of those letters and the replies then received. senator hart placed a parallel series in the record. on december 5. 1963. i inserted additional answers. most of these answers confirmed my belief that the agencies and departments of the federal government are presently under a constitutional mandate. even without the enactment of any legislation on the subject. to withhold funds. obtained through taxes levied on all citizens regardless of color. from any program or activity which is administered discriminatorly on grounds of race. creed or color. today. i add to this record three further items. two of which i believe demonstrate this proposition. the third agency apparently does  accept the principle that it may withhold funds from segregated programs. in spite of the overwhelming acceptance of this principle by all but one otherthe department of health. education. and welfareof the executive departments and agencies which have responded to my inquiries. last year a constituent brought to my attention the problem posed for equal employment opportunity and equal access to public accommodations in the surrounding communities. by the construction in mississippi of a huge new test facility for the national aeronautics and space administration. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record excerpts from two letters from nasa in the course of our correspondence on the question. which indicate that concrete steps are being taken to insure equal opportunity where federal funds are being used.
. i have will do a little more themselves and will mittee with respect torichmond counheard with deep interest the views of the give higher priorities than otherwise. senator from georgia and the senator i do  k exactly what kentucky ty. ga.. where it is said on page 247 of from kentucky. and i respect them both is doing about its own tax system. it is the hearings report: fully. i should like to deal with those e of my business. but i would hazard it is understood that free lunches are views very briefly. a guess that on the basis of progressive granted only in cases of extreme emergency. first. as to the views of the senator income. it is a lot less onerous than is parents with tv sets. telephones. automofrom kentucky. i thoroughly agree with the case in new york. illis. or other bles. etc.. should  request free lunches unless dire circumstances have suddenly him that people whocan afford to pay such states. overtaken them. should pay. but i can agree with the it is a question of priority. certainly argument of the poor states because it the children are entitled to the highest they ask: is a question of priorities in those states. priorities. and the poor states should would you be willing to let your children unless the senator from kentucky can  hold back the march of progress for do a small amount of work. such as picking up paper. as part payment for the lunches they receive. more important than that is the question: are you willing for a committee from the p.t.a. to visit your home to investigate this application for free lunches. i am  citing that as a horror story. i am sure that there are other places in other states that are much worse. i would  be surprised to find an example of this in my own state. and i am frank to say that. e of us can claim any kind of immunity. i only point out that the absence of a concrete base on which this program can stand is a serious one. that is what we are trying to restore. the senator from south dakota has pointed outand he is the fountainhead of kledge concerning this effortthat he considers this as important as any amendment that we are presenting to the senate. finally. i would point out that we are  approaching. the optimum. half the children are  getting the lunches that they need and should have. we have on the present basis over 6 million children. and over 3 million of them are being served. but are being served on an unrealistic standard that does  represent the need. it seems to me that we must establish the need. if we can do it by appropriations. we will of course take the most needy first. but it is one thing to be appropriating against a standard which shows a 2 million gap and appropriating against a standard which shows the true gap o. more than 4 million. that goes for every state.
if people like myself. who have been his staunchest supporters. and i was one of the conferees. should feel that their communications are being so very seriously downgraded they might as well fight for more money in the general revenue package than here. then the purpose would be defeated. i am  saying i feel that way. but i am questioning the senator because i want to get some understanding of why he did what was done.
yes. i can. a capitalintensive industry like a telephone company has a huge investment tax credit. in the case of the telephone company. it may go $100 million a year or more. one percent or 2 percent is a very. very large figure. as a matter of fact. we are advised that if this 2 percent permanent passes. a.t. & t. will install an esop. they will go for this plan if it means this kind of addition to their investment tax credit. on the other hand. if you have a service business..which is  a heavily capitalimpacted business-
