. this analysis shows that soviet industrial production can probably. conservatively. be computed at somewhere in the area of an average of 6.1 percent per annum in the period from 1928 to 1955. as against our average of something in the area of 4 percent. of course. we start from a very much higher base. but i do  think any of us. based upon this rather detailed and concise scientific analysis. or upon the intelligence estimate of  of the senate foreign relations committee. and step up foreign private investment to $5 or $6 billion annually. and also take free world joint ecoic action referred to above. we must make a very great effort overseas to develop new markets and new opportunities for investment. this is our greatest chance for ecoic expansion. equivalent to the "go west. young man" drive of the decades following the civil war.  it is "go world. young man." expanding our operations through the world. we should place a great premium upon oversea private investment. encouraging it through governmental measures including tax advantages. guarantees. governmental services at home and abroad. and efforts by treaty and agreement to assure equal treatment and the integrity of investments. we should back up foreign private investment with longterm government loans for infrastructure development purposesports. roads. sanitation. education. reclamation. navigation. and irrigationwhile. at the same time. spending as needed for technical assistance and for the education and training of far more americans than at present to engage in this technical assistance. a recent report on the place of the u.s. private ecoy in the foreign policy efforts of our government. which is of monumental importance to the peace leadership of the united states. is entitled "expanding private investment for free world ecoic growth." it was prepared by the department of state and commerce in cooperation with other federal agencies. and issued by under secretary of state dillon. based on the staff work of ralph straus of new york. it recommends a major increase in u.s. foreign private investment in aid of our peace leadership. it deals with tax incentives for such investment. participation of small business. stimulation of treaties of commerce. friendship. and navigation. material increase and improvement of the existing ica private investment guarantee program. improved administrative procedures of u.s. government agencies in the foreign trade and investment field and other major matters of this character. it is expected that during this session the senate will have the opportunity to consider the foreign investment incentive act of 1959. h.r. 5. introduced by representative hale boggs. of louisiana. this bill would provide for a variety of tax incentives to u.s. businesses engaged in foreign investment and trade. it would encourage developing nations to give tax inducements to u.s. investment. and would promote the ability of u.s. corporations to insure the property losses of oversea subsidiaries. a u.s. trade goal of $50 billion a year can be a tremendously important growth factor in our own domestic ecoy. as borne out by our experience in the recent recession. the department of commerce reports that some of the component parts of major industries hit most heavily by our recent recession registered vital gains in exports which undoubtedly contributed to their ability to participate in our 1959 ecoic recovery. the following increases in exports in 1958 over 1957 were in key sectors of our industry. while total exports showed a decline: radio and television apparatus up 11 percent. metalworking machines and machine tools up 8 percent. railway transportation equipment up 44 percent. the chemical industry also registered gains in certain areas. the important contribution to ecoic development made by foreign aid and private investment programs can be wiped out by some material reversal of the progressively liberal trend of our trade policies or by a recession of demand in the united states. in 1958 our export and import trade with mexico exceeded $1.3 billion. our net ecoic grants and credits were $77 million. with argentina an 8 to 1 ratio held true. with colombia the ratio was better than 10 to 1. and while our trade with venezuela exceeded $1.7 billion. our net ecoic grants and credits were only $3 million. our trade with india was more than double the net inflow of ecoic aid. and with indonesia the ratio was nearly 10 to 1. with the african nations of ethiopia. ghana. and liberia. our trade was $200 million. while the net effect of our ecoic assistance was $15 million. to prevail in an ecoic offensive. the u.s.s.r. does  have to surpass or even equal the u.s. standard of living. should the typical soviet citizen be able to purchase an everage of two and a half pairs of shoes a year by 1965. as proposed in their 7year plan. that could be a much more meaningful achievement to the typical indonesian. liberian. or jordanian than the fact that most american homes will have a car and a television set. the u.s.s.r. and the iron curtain countries could emously damage the free world if they could persuade the nearly billion people in the 20 developing nations which have gained their independence since world war ii that the communist system. with its totalitarian control over resources. production. and distribution can raise their living standards faster and more surely than ours. our job is to see that the communists will  profit from having the average worker in africa. south america. or asia engage in comparison shopping. a comparison of growth in india with that in red china or a comparison of living standards in russia today with that only 30 years ago should  be of any help to the communist causerather. such a comparison should be a help to our side.
