i am a cosponsor of this particular measure. i believe it represents an effort to translate the idealism which has been so prominent in the peace corps and which has worked so well abroad to the domestic service of the united states. i am satisfied. too. that the scheme which is proposed to the congress parallels. as far as is practical. the successful pattern evolved in respect of the peace corps. which i believe is one of the more successful initiatives of the united states in the employment. in its foreign aid and foreign development efforts. of the idealism. skill. and interest of young americans. there is an ample number of projects which can profit greatly from the dedication which the national service corps will inspire. i feel. too. that it will be a very important channel through which volunteer services of young and old alike may go into areasmany of which have been describedof want. need. illness. and underprivilege. which are enclaves of backwardness in terms of ecoic advance. such as the areas of migratory farm workers. there the volunteers can be of great benefit. i am very much for the bill. i am a cosponsor. as i said. i have only two reservations. . which i have describedwhich are . in my opinion. reservations in any way to change the quality and character of the planhaving proved the validity of the idea in terms of inspiration to youth and in terms of its usefulness to those it serves through the peace corps. i believe we have arrived at the point where the national service corps is the next logical step in terms of undertaking to give our youth an opportunity to show their dedication .and their idealism i am confident that by the time the vote occurs on the bill we shall have completely closed ranks in full support of it.
. finally.  mcnamara of the world bank set a target of a 5percent yearly increase in the output of small farmerswith funds to be spent in agricultural development. population planning. and rural education.  the world lacks right really. it is virtually without reserves and is waiting with the greatest concern for the good american crop which is coming in. therefore. we really have margin of error on food supplies for the less developed countries. especially the 30 without resourceswith an estimated population which runs about 1 billion peoplei will put the exact figures into the record and list the countries and ask unanimous consent that i may do so.
