. i would support an amendment of this nature. if it is  adopted. i am hopeful that the senate in its wisdom will return this entire matter to the senate committee on the judiciary for further study. constitutional amendments should  be treated lightly. and every compromise proposal before the senate might well lead to greater difficulties than those we have encouraged under the present provision in the constitution itself.
. we have heard some discussion this evening on the tennesseetombigbee project. i submit for the record a series of editorials.  all from the frost belt by a long shot. the lead one is from the atlanta constitution and there are a variety of others. including one from the raleigh news observer. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
i should like to asso-. ciate myself with the views expressed by the senator from michigan. and to compliment him for offering his amendment. i also wish to associate myself with the views expressed by my colleague from new jersey . whom i heard in the other body lead this fight years ago for the same reason. i should like to point out also that it is our duty to vindicate the constitution of the united states. that is what the senators amendment would do.
. the proposal made by the senator from georgia for a socalled voluntary racial relocation commission as an amendment to the pending bipartisan civil rights bill is both too shocking and too revealing to be iged. it is revealing in that it would signal the weakness of our nations position so long as it has legal and moral answer to the claims to equal treatment of almost 20 million negro citizens. it is also revealing that this move of desperation is made by the opponents of the civil rights bill so early in the tactical situation on the senate floor. after just a week of debate on the motion to take up the bill. several aspects of this proposal ought to be pointed out before it sinks into the obscurity it deserves: first. like similar outlandish proposals made over the last 15 yearsto move negroes from the united states to africa or to move them to a single allnegro state or group of statesthis proposal. to equalize the negro popultions of all the states by moving some negroes from the south to other parts of the country. is a flight from reality. a kind of refusal to face up to a critical problem which is entirely untypical in our american society. we have always prided ourselves on our ability to face reality and meet our problems. this is an attempt to evade a critical one. second. the usually unspoken premise of these attempts is a fact admitted by the senator from louisiana last week: that whites in some areas in the south deny the negro the right to vote because negroes are in the majority in those areas and the white miity fears that it will lose political control if the majority votes. the answer provided by the relocation proposal is to make sure that negroes are permanentlyand throughout the nationa miity. this would be a distortion of the very basis of our entire political structurethat the majority rules in free and open elections. to put the proposal in its perspective. one need only consider what would be a parallel proposal: that the political party in power should induze adherents of the opposing political party to move from state to state so that the ruling party will remain permanently in power by always remaining the majority party in every political subdivision. third. one of the basic arguments used repeatedly by the opponents of civil rights legislation is that somehow it would involve too great a governmental control of private. individual behavior. and that in the end this must lead to tyranny. yet population movements "encouraged" to solve social problems are the greatest interference in private. individual lives. and have historically been the hallmark of tyrannical societies. fourth. such flights from reality are often justified on the alleged ground that the negroes of the south are moving to the th by themselves anyway and that more of them would leave if only they could. but it is apparent that this is  the case: the great majority of southern negroes. just like southern whites. obviously would prefer to live in the area of the nation in which they were born and have lived. so long as they can do so under conditions of dignity and with the equal opportunitiei which the constitution should assure them. the experiment in resettlement tried last year in several southern states. the socalled freedom rides in reverse. was a resounding failure and served only to demonstrate this truth. senator russells proposal is simply an attempt to do on a national scale what failed so miserably last year when it was attempted on a private and state level.
. ody ks and legislature ks whether we can confine this convention to one question. though 26 of these resolutions seek to confine it to one question. i believe. as a lawyer. that it is likely to be a wide open convention. it could be a runaway convention. this would be a tremendous danger to the american people. what will happen if 34 state legislatures pass these resolutions. undoubtedly. the validity of some will be questioned by the congress. the constitution. for example. makes provision for requesting a convention for the specific purpose of adopting a single amendment. and yet 29 of these resolutions are so limited. further. as senators proxmire and tydings pointed out in recent senate speeches. only six of the legislatures which passed resolutionsindiana. illis. colorado. th dakota. oklahoma. and kentuckywere validly apportioned when the action was taken. there is therefore. some question as to the validity of 26 resolutions. other questions can be raised as well. for example. is the 90th congress required to recognize resolutions sent to the 89th congress. are state resolutions passed more than 2 years ago. for example. still valid. what is the effect of resolutions which were apparently passed. but never received by the congress. do memorials have the same legal effect as resolutions. what about simple petitions. can voters in states which have been reapportioned sue for recision. can the courts compel congress to call a convention. if congress refuses to recognize the validity of some of the resolutions. a group of senators and representatives of interested civic organizations has been meeting in recent weeks to discuss these questions. and we have asked a few prominent constitutional lawyers to prepare briefs for us on the subject. in my view. a very dangerous situation would be created if two more legislatures act. but even if that unfortunate event occurs. i for one do  intend to acquiesce in an assault on the constitution without fully informing the public of the inherent dangers. without seriously questioning the validity of every single resolution. and without extensive. full. and fair discussion of the real issues.
