. i join with my colleague. senator pell. in introducing a resolution supporting a malization of relations with cuba on a reciprocal basis. this resolution is a natural outflow of the visit which senator pell and i made to cuba last septemberand it certainly is consonant with a speech of march 1. 1975. by secretary of state kissinger. in which the secretary stated: we see virtue in perpetual antagonism between the united states and cuba. our concerns relate above all to cubas external policies and military relationships with countries outside the hemisphere. we have taken some symbolic steps to indicate that we are prepared to move in a new direction if cuba will. i believe that the icepack has finally been broken and that we will witness rapid progress in the process of malization of relations between the united states and cuba this year. certainly movement in this direction should longer be postponed. especially when viewed in the perspective of the malization of relations with the peoples republic of china and the soviet union. on the basis of our conversations with premier castro and other members of the cuban government in havana last fall. i believe that there is a real interest there in malizing the relationship. under the new voting procedures agreed upon last december. which are expected to result in a rescinding of the organization of american statesoasresolution of 1964 which is the basis of ecoic embargo maintained against cuba. i believe that there will be an opportunity to move ahead quickly on the trade front. cuba is a natural and traditional trading partner of the united states and there is considerable interest within the american business and investment community in a resumption of trade with cuba. of course. there is question of a resumption of any old. semicolonal pattern of u.s. ecoic relations with cuba. but there are a number of potential areas of mutually beneficial trade. hopefully. there will be early progress on an easing of travel restrictions. to allow exchange of visits on a regular basis by journalists. businessmen. cultural and scientific exchange groups. and private citizens. in particular. there are many american citizens of cuban descent who wish to visit relatives in cuba. and there are families to be reun ted. the malization of relations should. of cource. be accomplished on a basis of reciprocity. in order to accomplish this. both sides will have to subordinate ideological differencesas we have done successfully with the peoples republic of china. the world has changed considerably since the cold war days of the late 1950s and early 1960s and i believe it is safe to say that neither the united states  cuba any longer perceives the other as a serious threat to its national security. it is time to restore bilateral relations with havana and to view cuba once more as a natural member of the western hemisphere family of nations. when we visited cuba last fall. american interests in cuba were represented by the swiss embassy. i hope that on my next visit there will be a u.s. mission in havana. and that the mally friendly relations between the american people and the cuban people will be resumed to our mutual advantage. in such an atmosphere i am confident that progress could be made on the more difficult and emotional unresolved issues created by the course of events in the early 1960s.
