. we live in an age when our national oversights and delinquenciesreal or imaginaryare labeled "gaps" by madison avenue. the "gap" i hope to close by the legislation i am today introducing is a very real one. under present law. service men and women. who are hospitalized immediately upon or before separation from service because of a serviceconnected disability. are  granted retirement credit during hospitalization. the "gap" that resultsbetween a mans military service and his return to civilian employmentis obvious. it is time doubly lost. and just benefits unjustly withheld. my bill would amend the civil service retirement act so that retirement credit would be provided for periods of hospitalization for serviceconnected disabilities immediately following discharge from service. it is my understanding that my able colleagues who serve on the house committee on post office and civil service will be considering overall revision of the retirement act. and i feel confident they will  ige this "gap" in it.
 martin such a high place in the regard of his colleagues have endeared him to millions of americans. the hos that have been accorded this great yet humble man bear eloquent testimony to his stature. hos. indeed. are  new to joe martin. but i believe that of all the tributes he has received e have had greater meaning than that which was accorded him on sunday. april 15. 1962. when the national federation of republican women presented to the congress of the united states a marble likeness of joe martin. executed by the ed sculptress. mme. suzanne silvercruys. to be placed in the rotunda of the house office building. scores of joes colleagues from both branches of the congress joined with hundreds of republican ladies from throughout our nation in the presentation ceremony. in order that our colleagues who were  able to attend the ceremonies may share the sentiments of those who paid tribute to joe on this able occasion. i am incorporating at this point in the congressional record the program describing the ceremonies together with a record of the proceedings which was transcribed from a tape recording of the ceremonies contributed as a public service by mr. isaac street. of business and social recordings:
. i am happy to join with my colleagues today in paying tribute to one of the outstanding newer members. frank horton. of new york. franks latest ho. that of the bronze star. caps a distinguished career of public service in his community. in wartime. and here in the house. and indicates that frank can look forward to a future studded with more accomplishments. my very best wishes to frank on this occasion and for tire future.
. i ask unanimous consent that i may have printed in the record aher sampling of correspondence that i have received. relating to my vote and my speeches in opposition to the south vietnam resolution and the warmaking policies of the united states in southeast asia. my mail is still running better than 200 to 1 in support of my position. although one would never k it if he were to read the kept press of america. my mail runs better than 10 to 1 in support of my opposition to foreign aid.
 of the massachusetts house of representatives for 8 years. and as an alderman in newton. mass. at every level of our government leverett saltonstall has served with integrity and distinction. it has been characteristic of him and his rich new england heritage that he saw public service as a job to be performed with as much conscientiousness and dedication as possible. i am reminded of the evening when the senator was accompanied by an assistant after a particularly grueling day. the aid said. "well. senator. this was one of the toughest days weve had." the senator replied. "youre right. it was. but this is the job we hired out for." this simple phrase in its modesty and sense of dedication characterizes superbly the conscience and career of senator leverett saltonstall. i had the good fortune of serving on the senators staff from 1953 to 1958. it was a lesson in what public service is all about: devotion to duty. integrity. and total concern for the public good. commentary about senator saltonstalls career would be complete without referring to his lovely wife alice. who has stood at his side throughout his years of public service. together they have represented the finest that new england has to offer america and the world. with the adjournment of the 89th congress. senator saltonstall will end his public career. we expect that he will miss public service for a time. and we will surely miss his advice and counsel here on capitol hill. characteristically. the senator has already agreed to serve massachusetts in his retirement as chairman of a committee to encourage travel in our state: i feel sure that he will  be idle. but will continue to contribute to our commonwealth. i have asked several of the senators former staff members to add their own comments today. under unanimous consent i include the letters of henry mi. john b. fisher. charles w. colson. and john jackson at the conclusion of my remarks:
. i would like to associate myself with the remarks of the distinguished gentleman from vermont . member of this body has devoted more time and attention to the future of our military manpower policy. i agree with the gentleman that we should support the recommendations of the committee on armed services. however they be amended here on the floor. but i also am in accord with his insistence that we continue to strive for greater voluntarism in our manpower procurement policy. we should  forget that it was  until fairly late in our national history that we found it necessary to institute conscription. a practice previously deemed contrary to our democratic system. but made necessary by the aggression of hitler in europe. we have found it necessary to keep this system essentially intact for the past 25 years. but we need  foreclose future opportunities for a return to a volunteer army. population changes. the need for new skills and abilities in our armed forces. and the need for more efficient management of our manpower policies have outstripped the mechanism we  use. this was ably pointed out in a series of papers issued by a group of colleagues on this side of the aisle last year. i hope that in passing this bill today. we will  forget and fail to heed the admonitions of the gentleman from vermont. he is pointing the way toward more enlightened military personnel management in the future.
s and numerous other public figures from the commonwealth have carried the famous name of adams right into our own time. it was a measure of the esteem in which john quincy adams was held that the people of his congressional district returned him to the u.s. house of representatives after his unsuccessful bid for reelection against andrew jackson in 1828. with characteristic yankee stubbornness his constituents insisted on retaining the benefits of his public service. even though the country as a whole had failed to return him to office. the long and active career of public service of john quincy adams reminds us of the statement of aher famous adams. samuel adams who. a month after the signing of the declaration of independence. said: i ask greater blessing than to share with you the common danger and the common glory. in marking the birth of john quincy adams today. we also mark a able tradition of public service.
. mr. frank l. boyden has annced that he will retire from his position as headmaster at deerfield academy in june. i want to pay tribute to this great man who is a legend in massachusetts and in educational circles throughout the united states and around the world. mr. boyden. a native of my state. has been headmaster at deerfield since 1902. under his guidance. that academy has grown from a group of 14 students to the wellkn and widely respected institution it is today. and mr. boydens accomplishments and his impact on the nations education have gone far beyond his achievements at deerfield. he is a trustee of 25 other educational institutions and his broad public service through the years has gained him the reputation and national stature which he so richly deserves. frank boyden is one of those rare people in our society who truly can be called a "great teacher." to him. as to few others. belongs the surely immense satisfaction which comes from guiding. inspiring and influencing directly the lives of thousands of young men. his professional career has been long and distinguished. all of us who care deeply about the value and progress of education in this country owe him a great debt. although he is stepping down after 65 years at deerfield. we hope and expect that he will continue to involve himself in the great unfinished work of education and that our society will benefit from his wise counsel and valuable contribution for years to come.
. i had intended to offer an amendment to the military procurement bill similar to that passed by the senate on the matter of social science and other research. this amendment was proposed by the junior senator from arkansas and was adopted in the other body by a vote of 49 to 44 i share a great deal of the concern senator fulbright expressed about the direction and effect of militarysponsored research. the diversity of research projects presently funded by the department of defense. and the emous complexity of these programs has  been clearly understood by the congress or. i suspect. by the defense department. the house armed services committee did adopt the second part of the research amendment passed by the senate. and the identical language may be found in section 203 of the house bill. this language specifically prohibits the funding of research projects unless they have a direct and appareht relationship to military requirements. since part of the fulbright amendment is included in the bill before the house. i have decided  to offer further changes. i will instead take a few minutes to share with the house a few points which my study of the amendment has revealed. the defense department has been involved in programs which are clearly beyond their own direct research needs. there has been a serious lack of control over the military relatedness of these programs in the past. recently too. defense involvement in research has become an issue in itself at the universities. it has caused problems for some dedicated and highly talented scientists who have been working underdefense research contracts. because of the need to control military science research programs. i would strongly. urge the defense department to follow the reduction guidelines offered by the senate amendment. its purpose is to make a modest cutback in funding of federal contract research centers. other social and behavioral science research. and researchin foreign institutions. more precise control. must be as-. serted by the department over social science studies related to foreign policy. the conduct of overseas research for project agile. and for basic research programs for universities participating in project themis. congress is increasingly concerned about the scope of these programs. and a responsible effort to better define their direction and reduce unnecessary expenditures must be made. the house armed services committee indicated its concern over the course of the research and development program in approving section 402 of the bill which requires a full disclosure of the purposes. cost. and duration of a contract or grant made to a college or university. in a succinct statement about the lack of kledge surrounding research and development contracts the house committee said on page 111 of its report. "for practical purposes. the congress ks hing about them." i fully agree with the reasoning of the committee that the requirement for prior reporting will provide the congress with the information it needs to develop a better understanding of the utilization of research and development funds. at the same time i am disturbed with other language at the end of this same section. 402. which indicates that such research projects should be placed in universities which are cooperating fully with the department of defense in national defense efforts. support of research at a particular university and that universitys position with respect to the rotc and military recruiting are separate issues and must be dealt with separately. to link them will only exacerbate existing problems. the department of defense should provide the congress with a readable report on its current and projected research and development activities for military science research. my own study indicates that the congress needs to continue its examination of these programs. for example. i am concerned that research directly relating to foreign policy issues may be selfserving. of dubious quality and of low utility. the report should describe in clear detail the reasons for department of defense supported foreign policy research at present levels. the costs and benefits of such research. an explanation as to why such research is  being sponsored primarily by the department of state. and case studies of a substantial number of specific projects. i would also suggest that scientists and professionals concerned with basic and social science research throughout the government increase their efforts to. broaden research undertaken by other departments. -there is increasing national concern over all priorities. including research. and i feel that perhaps the office of science and techogy in the executive offices could serve as the capping agency for discussion of research objectives in the federal government. in relative terms the $400 million in the research. development. test. and evaluation budget is very small. it is the equiv-. alent of onehalf of 1 percent of the total defense research. and development budget- of: $7 billion.within that $400 million. something under $50 million -is earmarked for. social* and behavioral science research. however. the impact and importance of this $50 million is demonstrably greater than its monetary relation to the remainder of the research and development budget. it is precisely because of the interaction between our defense posture and policies and our research efforts that these military research programs play such an important role. thus. by continuing to absorb a disproportionate share of the research funds. the department of defense may influence the order of priorities in a manner which is  consistent with the overall national welfare. i continue to be concerned with the important and compelling need to fund research in other segments of our society for the emous problems of housing. transportation. and pollution. to name but a few. it is my hope that the importance of imaginative. carefully considered requests for research funding by other agencies and professionals will be recognized. and that this effort to examine the military research programs will spark new interest and concern for the other areas that desperately need attention.
the question of new york city and the particular area around new york city was what was bothering me when i was trying to determine what definition should be used. if it were to be used in this connection. and when i suggested "trade area." i was aware that the metropolitan district of new york in one sense includes part of new jersey and perhaps some of connecticut. but it certainly goes away beyond any county lines. whether that is contemplated or  i do  k. and whether we can combine other cities with new york city in a metropolitan district i do  k. jersey city. newark. and several smaller cities are in the same area. i do  k what the answer is. maybe the census definition would cover it. but i doubt it. 
i do  k about the situation in vermont. but i k that the state of new york has a public service commission. andi suppose the state of vermont has one. too. i point out that our public service commission is rather particular about such things. and i doubt very much whether anyone would be able to get away with anything insofar as keeping the price too high is concerned.
but the fact remains. when the senator is talking about the 4 cents as compared to what it would be at the bus bar. up in the st. lawrence. there is difficulty in the way of competition insofar as that is concerned. all the power that could be developed by the st. lawrence power project could be used and would be used in addition to the power  being used there. furthermore. the public service commission of the state of new york is very strict in denying to publicutility companies of that state permission to earn above and beyond a certain percentage of their investment.
. in order to keep the record straight i should like to point out that in the state of new york i do  think there need be too much worry about the point the senator is just raising. the public service commission of the state of new york is very strict along all those lines.
. i ask unanimous consent to submit a report from the committee on post office and civil service which .approves senate joint resolution 210. to authorize the issuance of a stamp commemorative of the golden anniversary of the consolidation of the boroughs of manhattan. bronx. brooklyn. queens. and richmond. which boroughs  comprise new york city. and i submit a report ( 1285) thereon.
. i understand that house joint resolution 371. which is identical with senate joint resolution. 210. has passed the house. and is  before the committee on post office and civil service. if that be correct. i move that. the committee on post office and civil service be discharged from the further consideration of house joint resolution 371. which is identical with the senate joint resolution. and i ask that the house joint resolution be substituted for the senate joint resolution and be  considered.
the senator from new york would like to point out that from some slight experience. since having been in the senate. i believe a large share of that mail will very likely land in the office of the present senator from new york.
. i present for appropriate reference and ask to have printed in the record at the conclusion of these remarks the text of a concurrent resolution recently adopted by the new york state legislature. which respectfully memorializes the congress of the united states to enact legislation which will (1) prohibit the federal security agency from imposing arbitrary administrative requirements such as statewide standards of assistance save as specifically authorized by congress. and (2) prohibit the federal security administrator from disrupting longestablished state civil service procedures by imposing special requirements for public employees engaged in administering the federally aided programs of public assistance.
i should like to ask the senator from maryland if he is satisfied that this bill will work effectively. i desire to have my distinguished colleague understand that i am in full sympathy with the purpose of the committee. i think the committee has labored hard and has conducted a very extensive and sincere study. but in the light of the communication from the postmaster general which is quoted in the report. i am a little bit doubtful that the bill as drafted could work effectively if at all.
i should like to inquire of the distinguished senator from south carolina as to the cost of mailing. we will say. a letter whose weight does  exceed 1 ounce: was that figured out. it is stated that the cost is 2.8 cents for a postal card. how much is it for a letter.
the reason i am asking these questions is because in the amendment which has been offered by the senator from louisiana a differentiation is made as to classification. while i am  quarreling on that point with the senator from louisianaand there may be considerable merit to his contentioni wish to suggest that it would seem to be highly unfair to make that kind of differentiation as between a postal card and a sealed letter. which is confidential and can be seen by the public. the committee is  making any such variation at all. the full 4 cents is charged for something on which the cost of handling is far less than 4 cents.
that is  the point i am raising. we are talking about mail which is open to public inspection. or any other kind of inspection. and about which there is hing confidential at all. the point i am raising is in connection with firstclass mail. which is sealed. and does  weigh over 1 ounce. the charge for that is to be 4 cents. for a letter. which is  open to inspection. it will cost four times as much as for a card. which anyone can see. it seems to me that if we are to differentiate in the case of postal cards we should differentiate to some extent with reference to firstclass mail. in particular where the information contained is confidential and can be observed by anyone.
does . the distinguished senator from south carolina believe it to be true that all things being equal. a flat dollar increase for all in the postal service is the best way to handle the situation at this time.
. without going into a thorough explanation of the points raised against the transfer of these functions. i should call to the attention of the senate the following information: of all the contractors in the country supplying commodities to the quartermaster purchasing agency. the highest concentration37 percentis within 45 miles of new york city. furthermore. the proposal to move the quartermaster purchasing function would result in separating the consolidated purchasing of many items  procured by the new york quartermaster purchasing agency. this appears  to coincide with the intent of public law 413. 80th congress. and armed services procurement regulation section 4 dealing with the procurement of items used in common by all branches of the armed forces. hearings conducted by various committees of the congress have shown that the procurement practices of the defense department leave much to be desired. this is true particularly of clothing for the armed services. i therefore urge that these practices receive thorough study from the executive branch and from the appropriate committees of the congress and pending their recommendations. the proposed amendment be adopted.
. reserving the right to object. i wish to point out that i was  aware of the objection which has been stated by my colleague from new york in that particular case. had i kn of it. and had he and i been able to get together on the inations. i think more of the inations from new york might have been confirmed. i understand that approximately 25 postmaster inations from new york are still unconfirmed and still in the committee. i have been doing my utmost to have them reported by the committee. i do  k where the stumbling block has been. however. i have been unsuccessful in having those inations reported. if i have done anything wrong. inso.far as the ination of mr. cartwright is concerned. i apologize. because i was trying to have as many of the inations as possible reported and acted on. i was  attempting to place particular emphasis on any one ination. either here. there. or at any other place.
 of the united states in a letter to the then chairman of the subcommittee on immigration of the senate committee on the judiciary. the senior senator from utah . dated december 6. 1953. among the injustices eliminated are the unrestricted authority given consuls to give or deny visas with virtually standards for guidance. the discrimination against naturalized citizens. and the future mortgaging of immigration quotas by many countries. the second title deals with procedural inequities and injustices which have appeared in the administration of the law. the third title modernizes the quota system by establishing the 1950 instead of the 1920 census figures as the basis for determining national quotas. this would substantially alleviate a serious inequity that exists with respect to nationalities from southern and southeastern europe. from which immigration is practically impossible today. finally. it insures that all unused quotas will be used by providing for a redistribution of such quotas from any year to the succeeding year. this bill goes far toward curing the most serious inequities contained in our present immigration law and should do much to enhance the prestige of the united states in parts of the world where the menace of international communism is greatest. i ask unanimous consent that an analysis of the bill be printed in the record.
ial press conference does  fully fill this need. a question period in the congress may be an important complement to it. the great republican secretary of state. elihu root. writing in 1935. best expressed the values which could be served by adoption of our resolution: it has long seemed clear to me that we ought to have some arrangement under which congress would have the benefit of more prompt and authoritative information as to the action of the executive department. on the other hand. i think that a sense of liability of prompt explanation has a very good effect upon the head and the leading members of an executive department. . the intense consideration of foreign affairs by the congress and the house of representatives is  new. in recent years congressional resolutions have. in fact. helped to define american foreign policy. the resolution on formosa in 1955. the resolution on the middle east in 1957. and the resolution on berlin in 1962 all became vitally important statements of the u.s. position. the congressional resolution on vietnam. passed last august 10. has been cited by the administration time and again as the authority behind u.s. policy decisions. last august. during debate on that resolution. the congress and the executive branch took seriously the congressional responsibility to participate in the careful consideration of u.s. policy. they should continue to take that responsibility seriously by permitting the secretary of state to answer questions on vietnam and other crisis areas on the floor of the house.
. i would like to e that the distinguished gentleman from michigan has been of major assistance in the drafting of this amendment. his very real experience as auditor general of the state of michigan has been very useful in the preparation of this amendment and i should like to commend the gentleman for his assistance.
 of the association of the bar of the city of new york and have urged that mr. niles take up with his executive board the possibility of the association undertaking a study of the legislation and of the entire problem of conflict of interest in the congress. mr. niles has indicated he would do so. the city bar association made an invaluable contribution to our legislative process when it prepared a study of conflict of interest in the executive branch several years ago. it is my earnest hope that the congress will once again have the benefit of its thinking and guidance in this equally important field.
. this bill would recognize some 400.000 out of the total of 700.000 employees of the postal field service. these are the people who do some of the most significant and important work in the postal servicemove. sort. and deliver the mail. if we are to attract and keep capable personnel to the postal servicewhich needs dedicated carriers and clerks in the service of the american peoplethis modest raise is necessary.
. as i have said on this floor several times during debate on the ecoic opportunity amendments of 1967. the sights of the american people are considerably higher than those of this house with regard to the level of funding and the nature of the programs that must be included in this legislation. i think that this is clear from the articles. editorials. and columns that have appeared in the newspapers of this nation during this last week alone. they give evidence of a high degree of commitment. of a deep concern. and of recognition of the unmet needs that we face. in reflecting the aspirations of those 30 million americans still living in poverty. they are in the tradition of a public service that has long characterized the press of this country. i believe that an article from the new york post on vista and seven editorials and columns from newspapers throughout the country commenting on the urgent needs of the antipoverty program in general will be of interest to the members of the house. and i insert them in the record at this point: [from the new york post. . 7. 1967]
. i am gravely concerned about aher aspect of this bill. that is the failure to include regulations of the interstate shipment of rifles and shotgunsa glaring omission that seriously weakens the entire bill. it is my understanding that chairman celler plans to hold hearings on amendatory legislation to include controls on the sale of rifles and shotguns. this should be done immediately to insure enactment during this session. title iv of the measure has as its objective the establishment of federal control of the distribution of firearms in such a way that state and local law enforcement authorities can effectively enforce state and local laws concerning the ownership. possession and use of firearms. the intent of this entire provision is subverted when it still remains possible for citizens legally to obtain in neighboring states or by mail long guns and rifles which their own state or locality might make it illegal to purchase. the amendment proposed in the other body by senator kennedy of massachusetts would have closed this shameful loophole. it would have allowed the sale or shipment of a rifle or shotgun by a federally licensed dealer only if the buyer had appeared in person on the premises of the dealer. it further would have prohibited the sale of long guns to persons under 18 years of age. these restrictions place burden on the lawabiding sportsman and hunter other than the upholding of the laws of his own state and locality. they would. however. possibly prevent the needless and inent death of other americans.
. i rise on the floor of the house to bring to the attention of my colleagues a situation involving the post office departments airmail rates which has resulted in discriminatory practices against israel. the voice of democracy in the middle east. in establishing airmail rates between the united states and middle eastern countries. the post office department has placed egypt in one zone. so that the postal rate is 15 cents per halfounce. while the rate to neighboring israel. which is just over this postal zone line. is 25 cents per halfounce. i have called upon the postmaster general. the hoable lawrence f. obrien. to introduce changes in post office procedure so that this inequity is corrected. the text of the letter follows:
. on monday. june 27congressional record. page 14278just several weeks ago. we voted a rule (h. res. 875) by 222 to 148 to bring up under the 21day rule (rule xi) a bill "revising postal rates on certain fourthclass mail." although it was pointed outpage 14281by mr. derwinski that it involved great social legislation. here we have one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before us this year. can we do less in bringing it to the floor of this house. i shall vote "aye."
feels there is far too much se in the land from dawn until darkand far into the wee hoursand we agree. he takes the position that the federal government is undertaking to control just about everything else. so why  se. his bill would set up a federal office of se control. we do  k just how the office would workor how it would enforce its directives.
says se produces physical illness. drives many stout men to the psychiatrists couch. and causes many freeswinging domestic squabbles. we have reason to doubt him. though we frankly do  have much faith in his federal office of control. we are afraid it would just proliferate the bureaucratic babble and thus raise the se level yet a few more decibels. a fellow can still escape to a mountaintop once in a while. as one of our good friends does. but he must come back and when he does the se always sounds worse than it did before. aher thing: we doubt that the congressmans bill could become law in time to affect the cacophony of campaigning up and down the country. especially in tennessee. during the next few weeks. it looks like a long. hot. sy summer. [from the lincoln (nebr.) star. may 9. 1966]
. within recent years. we have witnessed an important trend. a growing awareness by business of social responsibilities to the communities served. one good illustration of this is the significant national public service program undertaken by a new yorkbased corporation. american girl service. designed to encourage mature women to return to work. aware of the tremendous employment needs facing this country. and aware. also. that a great many mature women possess skills which can. but which have  been properly utilized. american girl service. a temporary help firm with offices in my district and in 67 cities. undertook a series of symposia in cooperation with leading department stores in various cities. titled "business needs you." this program has already attracted live audiences of nearly 3.000 women. and has resulted in the return to work of many of the participants. american girl service. which itself employs 20.000 women annually. has cooperated fully in the development of this program with various government agencies. including the womens bureau of the u.s. department of labor. and has indicated that this significant public service program will be continued throughout 1968. recently. in response to many requests. american girl service prepared an informational background describing the "business needs you" program. i include it with my remarks in the record:
the panama canal issue is an example of the perils of relying upon existing casts of public opinion. i do  k what others find. my own mail count has fluctuated from being almost totally against the treaties in some weeks to where it has been. by a small margin. in favor of the treaties. then back to opposing the treaties. the national polls have differed on this subject. as you k. the polls have shown. that. at large. the people are against the treaties. but then. if you take that group who has taken the trouble to study them or understand them. those polls have shown that the people are more in favor of them.  overwhelmingly. but are in favor of them. so my colleagues who oppose the treaty could easily produce evidence to show that the american people oppose them. but. frankly. i do  think this is the way we ought to make our decisions
the peak was reached. in the public schools. of 46 million youngstersand these are statistics from the federal governmentin 1971. of 46 million youngsters in elementary and secondary education in the public schools. since that time it has declined until in 1977 it was 43 million. and there is question about this. everybody ks the number of youngsters at the elementary and secondary levels has declined. we have all had elementary and secondary public schools closed in our neighborhoods. so the public sector has declined. and the private sector obviously has declined. too. you would  expect it to be markedly different than it was. but the fact is that since the stabilization in 1970. the percentage in public schools of the total pool. the total number of youngsters. has remained constant. does the senator from new york agree with that. or does he disagree with the department of hew statistics.
. i would like to take this opportunity to share with my colleagues a recently published article which underscores once again. th3 need to amend the foreign corrupt practices act. i ask that this article be printed in the record.
i did  propose that we do away with all forms of indexing. i said that every time we adopt indexing it has led to trouble. i am  naive egh to suggest that we are going to be able to eliminate indexing on social security or indexing on military pensions. or indexing on civil service pensions. or indexing on postal employees pensions. or indexing on the food stamp program. these things exist. but i am saying that accept these. if we will. but let us  start down aher path of duplicating the mistakes that we made previously. i thank the senator.
. in addition to the articles i submitted for the record on friday. july 10. i ask that an article which appeared in the washington post on may 21. and an article appearing in the june 22 u.s. news & world report. both of which deal with the foreign corrupt practices act. be printed in the record.
. i ask that the following list of examples of business opportunities lost due to the ambiguities in the foreign corrupt practices act be included in the record. the list i. taken from publication by the international division of the u.s. chamber of commerce surveying the impact of the act on u.s. companies conducting business overseas.
. the have been ordered. and the clerk will provision in the act . which the call the roll. senator from colorado seeks to strike. the assistant legislative clerk called permits the deductibility of payments the roll. that are permitted under the foreign mr. stevens. i annce that the corrupt practices act that exists senator from arizona (mr. goldunder our law . these are permis- water) and the senator from consible under our foreign corrupt prac- necticut (mr. wzzcmo. are necessartices act. this conforms the internal ily absent. revenue code with that. it would mr. cranston: i annce that permit those payments to be a deduct- the senator from hawaii (mr. ible item. iye). is necessarily absent.
the ustr has estimated a potential gain from the code of about $20 billion in already negotiated sales. one can say with exact certitude. but i will suggest in response to the senator from pennsylvania that my entire case does  rest on the gatt. it was i who stated clearly that this was  in violation of the gatt. it was i who said it was  in violation of the procurement code. so this senator has made suggestion in that regard.
the fact that it so rarely occurs makes it astonishing. tlaughter.]) the senator has suggested the procurement code has been in effect 5 years. if he will search his memory. he will realize thpt it has been in effect for a yearandahalf.  for 5 years. the figure% are due out from the str in about a monthandahalf. as he well ks. if the state of pennsylva. nia is anything like our state. getting figures back rapidly on complicated matters such as thisand. of course. this is far more complicated than any state deals withis difficult. we anticipate having those figures from the ustr within the next 2 months. when they come out. i will make it a point of seeing that the senator froa pennsylvania receives a copy
. i would like to make a couple of points here. the senator from maryland has spoken with eloquence. as usual. this point has been brought up several times. and that is the threat that the lack of new funds coming into the civil service retirement system might have on the pensions of those present employees of the civil service. in other words. despite what might have been said around here. we want to make it very. very clear that we are only talking new hires. people who come into the federal service starting january 1. 1984. but the concern has been raised by the senator from maryland and others that that will stop the flow of funds going into the civil service retirement. well. let us get something straight right here. it is great to talk about the civil service retirement fund as though somehow there is a pool of money that the civil service retirees have set up and that is where their pensions are coming from. the truth of the matter is that the pensions of civil service retirees are coming from $4 billion contributed by the civil service employees. $4 billion by matching funds of the federal government matching their employees. and $14 billion from the general treasury of the united states. that fund is bankrupt and we might as well ackledge it. that fund is dependent upon the votes of this congress from the general appropriations to provide for the retirement benefits of present retirees from the civil service. there is question but what the u.s. congress will continue those appropriations. just like we have the appropriations every year for the military retirees. does anybody suggest that somebody in this congress is going to vote to cut the benefits of those retirees who are receiving pensions. of course .
i have presented the analogy. and we do  need to dwell on it all aftern. of the military retirees. there is fund for the milltary retirees. the military retirees from the military service are paid by appropriations made by the u.s. congress. those appropriations are made every year and so they will be for civil service retirees.
if i might continue. we have all met with federal groups. they have come in and they have been eloquent. but i do  think anybody needs to kid themselves. they do  want to come into the social security system. they do  want the new hirees in it. if this proposal. the package that we have here. does  include future hires of the civil service. i seriously questionand there are a good number of others who questionwhether they will ever be included. i k the senator from louisiana has a program that as soon as the supplemental package is passed then they will come in. that supplemental package will be fought tooth and nail every inch of the way. i think this is the floor of the amendment of the senator from louisiana. the floor. as 7 see it. it will never happen. the civil service new hires starting in 1984 will never come in under social security if we do  include them . this is what we might call a last clear chance.
what should be done here is to permit the senate to have the same pay as the house of representatives. if the house chooses to restrict itself with this 30percent limit. that is its business. but we have had the same pay as the house for years and have  had restrictions. this is a new twist. we had the same pay as the house of representatives up until last year and we had percentage limitations.  did we in former days. i read this letter from common cause and it says. "the $25.000 limit on hoaria has been part of the campaign finance law for years." well. it has been part of the campaign finance law. but  for as long as the letter would imply. it can be said to have been a fixture of the law.
. i commend the senators from new jersey for coming up with this amendment. i must say that i do  k how the federal judge ever arrived at his conclusion. we k from intimate contact with federal judges. both present and past. that their wisdom is usually unexce)led. how this could have occurred leaves me dumbfounded. etheless. t did happen. and it seems wise to correct it. i think the senators from new jersey have done a fine public service by proposing this amendment. and it is certainly acceptable to this side.
i believe the procurement section on the procurement of recycled materials is quite explicit in its inclusion of tires. however. i agree that we should further define what the congress intended to include in this provision and will support language in the conference report on the development of a preference program including scrap and retreaded tires. this section builds on existing law and redirects the administrator of epa. after consultation with the administrator of general services. the secretary of commerce. and the public printer. to establish guidelines for the use of all fpderal procuring agencies in the costeffective acquisition of recycled materials. certainly. the agencies should consider the use of those materials and combinations of materials like asphalt and rubber for road construction purposes. if the senator would like additional clarification in the conference report. i will be happy to work out appropriate language.
. certain things are ascribed with virtue automaticallyfor instance. like motherhood. competitive procurement in weapons systems is looked on as good. well. that is  always necessarily so. you have two bidders two providers. neither have egh work to carry the massive overhead that is involved. as i read this provision: 3. a sole source prime contract may  be awarded or renewed for any major defense acquisition programi assume that is the billiondollar programunless the congress has specifically authorized such specific contracts to be awarded in an annual department of defense authorization act or other appropriate legislation enacted into law. let us say we appropriate x millon dollars for the procurement of an aircraft. and the air force goes through a flyoff and they decide that mcdonnell douglas is going to get it. what happens when that comes up here. the california delegation decides that thrup should get a piece of that action. somebody says that general dynamics ought to get a piece of that action. by the way. where are the engines going to come fromfrom general electric or united techology. i think this is opening the way to a lot of political interference that is  good for the country. i hope there can be some modification of that. i find it very disturbing.
. i would like to make a couple of points here. the senator from maryland has spoken with eloquence. as usual. this point has been brought up several times. and that is the threat that the lack of new funds coming into the civil service retirement system might have on the pensions of those present employees of the civil service. in other words. despite what might have been said around here. we want to make it very. very clear that we are only talking new hires. people who come into the federal service starting january 1. 1984. but the concern has been raised by the senator from maryland and others that that will stop the flow of funds going into the civil service retirement. well. let us get something straight right here. it is great to talk about the civil service retirement fund as though somehow there is a pool of money that the civil service retirees have set up and that is where their pensions are coming from. the truth of the matter is that the pensions of civil service retirees are coming from $4 billion contributed by the civil service employees. $4 billion by matching funds of the federal government matching their employees. and $14 billion from the general treasury of the united states. that fund is bankrupt and we might as well ackledge it. that fund is dependent upon the votes of this congress from the general appropriations to provide for the retirement benefits of present retirees from the civil service. there is question but what the u.s. congress will continue those appropriations. just like we have the appropriations every year for the military retirees. does anybody suggest that somebody in this congress is going to vote to cut the benefits of those retirees who are receiving pensions. of course .
i have presented the analogy. and we do  need to dwell on it all aftern. of the military retirees. there is fund for the milltary retirees. the military retirees from the military service are paid by appropriations made by the u.s. congress. those appropriations are made every year and so they will be for civil service retirees.
if i might continue. we have all met with federal groups. they have come in and they have been eloquent. but i do  think anybody needs to kid themselves. they do  want to come into the social security system. they do  want the new hirees in it. if this proposal. the package that we have here. does  include future hires of the civil service. i seriously questionand there are a good number of others who questionwhether they will ever be included. i k the senator from louisiana has a program that as soon as the supplemental package is passed then they will come in. that supplemental package will be fought tooth and nail every inch of the way. i think this is the floor of the amendment of the senator from louisiana. the floor. as 7 see it. it will never happen. the civil service new hires starting in 1984 will never come in under social security if we do  include them . this is what we might call a last clear chance.
what should be done here is to permit the senate to have the same pay as the house of representatives. if the house chooses to restrict itself with this 30percent limit. that is its business. but we have had the same pay as the house for years and have  had restrictions. this is a new twist. we had the same pay as the house of representatives up until last year and we had percentage limitations.  did we in former days. i read this letter from common cause and it says. "the $25.000 limit on hoaria has been part of the campaign finance law for years." well. it has been part of the campaign finance law. but  for as long as the letter would imply. it can be said to have been a fixture of the law.
. i commend the senators from new jersey for coming up with this amendment. i must say that i do  k how the federal judge ever arrived at his conclusion. we k from intimate contact with federal judges. both present and past. that their wisdom is usually unexce)led. how this could have occurred leaves me dumbfounded. etheless. t did happen. and it seems wise to correct it. i think the senators from new jersey have done a fine public service by proposing this amendment. and it is certainly acceptable to this side.
i believe the procurement section on the procurement of recycled materials is quite explicit in its inclusion of tires. however. i agree that we should further define what the congress intended to include in this provision and will support language in the conference report on the development of a preference program including scrap and retreaded tires. this section builds on existing law and redirects the administrator of epa. after consultation with the administrator of general services. the secretary of commerce. and the public printer. to establish guidelines for the use of all fpderal procuring agencies in the costeffective acquisition of recycled materials. certainly. the agencies should consider the use of those materials and combinations of materials like asphalt and rubber for road construction purposes. if the senator would like additional clarification in the conference report. i will be happy to work out appropriate language.
. certain things are ascribed with virtue automaticallyfor instance. like motherhood. competitive procurement in weapons systems is looked on as good. well. that is  always necessarily so. you have two bidders two providers. neither have egh work to carry the massive overhead that is involved. as i read this provision: 3. a sole source prime contract may  be awarded or renewed for any major defense acquisition programi assume that is the billiondollar programunless the congress has specifically authorized such specific contracts to be awarded in an annual department of defense authorization act or other appropriate legislation enacted into law. let us say we appropriate x millon dollars for the procurement of an aircraft. and the air force goes through a flyoff and they decide that mcdonnell douglas is going to get it. what happens when that comes up here. the california delegation decides that thrup should get a piece of that action. somebody says that general dynamics ought to get a piece of that action. by the way. where are the engines going to come fromfrom general electric or united techology. i think this is opening the way to a lot of political interference that is  good for the country. i hope there can be some modification of that. i find it very disturbing.
. i paralyzed veterans of america tells of rise today to cosponsor again legislaone man who used crutches and a tion which would give postal supervibrace to get around. and a landlord re- sors and postmasters access to an imfused to rent to him for fear of liabil- partial review of adverse personnel acity risk. do we want to treat our dis- tions. the bill narrowly missed becomabled. our veterans. our fellow citizens ing law during the last congress. it in this manner. passed the house of representatives one of the most troubling trends in as h.r. 2854. and its senate compar society in recent years has been ion. s. 2134. was approved by the the gradual weakening of the family senate governmental affairs commitas an institution. there has been a tee. great deal of discussion at the national i am pleased to join with senator level about the importance of revers- pryor. the chairman of the subcoming this trend. it is certainly a trend mittee with jurisdiction over this bill. which our housing policy should be re- and senator heflin. who has shown inforcing. still. over a quarter of all tremendous leadership on this issue. in rental units in this country totally ex- reintroducing this bill. clude childrenaher 50 percent re- i believe this legislation is long overstrict the number of children allowed. due. since 1971. when the postal servthus three quarters of this countrys ice was made an independent agency. rental housing has some sort of exclu- we have had a situation where only sionary policy with regard to children. postal employees who are veterans or yes. weve been talking a good bit who are covered by collective bargainabout families and how to help them. ing agreements providing for binding but when it comes right down to it. do arbitration may -appeal adverse personnel actions to an agency outside the postal service. unfortunately. the.practical effectof this has been especially damaging to female postal supervisors and postmasters. who are less likely to be covered by the exception for veterans. under current law. postal employees who are  covered under collective * bargaining agreements may appeal removals. suspensions. or demotions only to higher officials within the postal service. unless they are veterans. veterans. like their civil service counterparts. may appeal an adverse action to the merit systems protection board. ".the bill i am cosponsoring today will extend the same appeal rights to all supervisors and manageiial employ-. ees. i believe it is important to provide this right. across the board. i also would like to e that the version of the bill we are reintroducing. today contains an amendment requested by the u.s. postal service and approved by the governmental affairs committee during the last session. it concerns the procedure by which the agency. in cooperation with the office of personnel management. may appeal rulings of the merit systems protection board in adverse action cases to thefederal courts. this amendment is also containedin the house version of the bill. introduced by congressman dymally on january 6. 1987. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting swift passage of this legislation.o
. i am pleased to join senator humphrey in cosponsoring s. 268. the federal employee adoption benefits act of 1987 and s. 269. the federal adoption benefits act of 1987. it is with these measures that we hope to encourage adoption through the use of subsidies. these are times when legislators and commentators alike agree that the family in american society needs all the help it can get. the future of our country is only as bright as the futures of our children. when a family wishes to adopt a child in need of love. nurturing. and stability. it is something to be encouraged. financial barriers should  be allowed to interfere with such commendable intentions. such desperately needed action. when a family is created in a biological fashion and the parents are employees of the federal government. their expenses are covered through the employee benefits plans that provide for prenatal and delivery care. when a family is created through adoption. similar benefits are available. the average fee for an adoption from a profit adoption agency in 1985 was $6.000. it is time for the federal government to bring its employee benefits plansup to date. the legislation that i have joined senator humphrey in sponsoring in the senate seeks to amend this inequityand bring the strength of families to more children in need of them. our bills would provide reimbursements of up to $2.000 for expenses incurred in the adoption of a child for civil service employees and members of the armed forces. this money can be applied to adoption expenses such as agency fees. placement fees. legal fees. medical expenses. foster care charges. and transportation costs. rhode island has over 4.000 military personnel living within its borders. an additional 9.000 rhode islanders are federal civil service employees. thus. over 13.000 people in rhode island could benefit from this legislation. it is through our children that we can eventually solve the problems of the world. and achieve what we struggle for on a daytoday basis: peace. fulfillment. meaning. it only makes sense for us to. ensure thatour children are well cared for. in spite of the obstacles our society may present. it is obvious by the variety of sponsors of this bill that adoption is an issue that transeends politics and ideology. families are our nations strength. we need to do more to keep them strong.*
. today i rise to express my concern with the manner in which we are handling this whole issue of campaign finance reform. as you k. i am a cosponsor of s. 2. and have supported efforts to bring this measure to the floor. in fact. with todays vote. i will have voted eight times for cloture. i am one of only two republicans who has done that. but 60 votes are needed to invoke cloture and they are  there. it seems to me. after the senate says to cloture todayand it is clear it is going to do thatit is time to move on with campaign reform. i want campaign reform. i respect the efforts of the majority leader to move forward with s. 2. i have great respect for his work and the work of the senior senator from oklahoma. senator bonen. on this issue. but what do we want here in the senate. do we want a cause or do we want a bill. with every cloture vote. this senate is moving further away from campaign finance reform. the time has come. it seems to me. to redefine the debate. let us take those aspects of s. 2 that both sides of the aisle can support and draft a compromise measure. what would that measure be. public financing and overall spending limits are clearly  going to pass. but does that mean we should abandon the whole issue of campaign finance reform. let us make a new beginning. even as a cosponsor of s. 2. i never thought that this measure was the final word on campaign finance reform. it was and is a starting point and a stepping stone to comprehensive reform. indeed. i have proposed amendments which would go even further than s. 2. we have had spirited debate on both sides of the aisle. and this legislation framed the debate.  we can see that some provisions are unacceptable to a great many senators. it is time to accept that and move forward. i am concerned that continuing on the present course will ultimately end our opportunity for any kind of reform. and to me that does  make any sense. there are so many areas where we can make significant improvements in our system of campaign financing. i have listened to senators on both sides of the aisle call for increased disclosure requirements. this could form the basis of a new campaign finance reform proposal. a proposal that all of us could support. we ought to limit political action committee contributions. we ought to close the socalled millionaires loophole. we ought to limit independent expenditures and disclose "soft money" contributions. we should require tlat pacs fully identify themselves. what in the world is "the desert pac. tucson. az" that gave my opponent $10.000. does anybody k what the desert pac is. is it a realtors pac opposed to open spaces. is it a gun control pac for or against. is it for smoking or against smoking. you would never k from the name. "the desert pac." i think these pacs ought to be identified by their names. the important factor is that there are gounds here for a compromise. there is a chance for some real reform. i just hope that the distinguished majority leader. following this vote. will reach out and see if we can put that committee back together. or form aher one. to work on drafting real campaign finance reform. reform that we all can agree upon
you do  have to read it. if. you tell me that is so. that is adequate. . my next question is this: i am a dry cleaner. i have 20 employees. it is a highturer business. there are pants pressers. there are people working in there exposed to what might be the dangerous cleaning fluids. the government says that all of the dry cleaning industry must ify its employees. i have 20 employees and over the past 5 years i may well have had a total of 90 employees. never more than 20 at a time. but it has a high turer. this is in the past 5 years that i have had this many employees. . the government says that ices must go out. i can find those names. at least the names of who they were at that time and where they lived. unquestionably. they have moved. it is a transient type of population. they are  longstayers in the job and. frankly. i am  a high payer. i am a lowwage businessman. . what happens. who pays for me to search through those files. if anybody. and who do i mail it to. or do i do the mailing.
 of common cause. outlined his position on senate joint resolution 21. senator hollings original legislation. the proposed constitutional amendment. would  establish expenditure limits in campaigns. it would only empower congress to do so. thus even if twothirds of the senate and the house should pass senate joint resolution 21 and threequarters of the states were to ratify the amendment. . this is a long shot. we must admit: it would then still be necessary for the senate and the house to pass legislation to establish spending limits in congressional campaigns. yet it is this very issue of whether there should be spending limits in congressional campaigns that has been at the heart of the recent legislation battle in the senate. opponents of s. 2. the senatorial election campaign act. made very clear that their principal objection was the establishment of any spending limits in campaigns. so even assuming a constitutional amendment were to be ratified. after years of delay the senate would find itself right back where it is todayin a battle over whether there should be spending limits in congressional campaigns. i am concerned that passage of this resolution will ultimately put campaign finance reform on the back burner. there are so many areas in which we agree. we can make significant improvements in our system of campaign financing. so let us make a new beginning. let us look at the recent work of two members on this side of the aisle. just last week. the senate approved an amendment offered by the junior senator from new hampshire to the post employment integrity act. which would prohibit all members of congress from converting excess campaign funds to personal use upon leaving congress. that was adopted. that was a step forward. in addition. senator mcconnell offered an amendment. which was approved unanimously by the senate. that would close the socalled millionaires loophole. that is a step forward. both of these initiatives grew out of the group of eight that met prior to the demise of s. 2. the work of senators rudman and mcconnell is real campaign finance reform. it brings the senate back into focus on the central issue of maintaining the integrity of our campaign finance system. although there were areas of disagreement with respect to s. 2. there were in fact many instances of agreement. the senator from kentucky has time and time again pointed those out. it is time to bring those forward to form the basis of a new campaign finance reform proposal. the limitation of campaign expenditures is  going anywhere. so let us agree on the things that we can agree on. that is what the senate is all about. compromise. there is need to wait for the passage of a constitutional amendment to move ahead with campaign finance reform. let us debate limitations on pacs. that is where many people feel there are abuses. independent expenditureswe can work on that. there is constitutional problem there. the disclosure of soft money. the need for pacs to more fully identify themselves. these pacs with strange nameswhat are they. ody ks what they are. there ought to be a requirement that the pacs identify themselves. what is the desert pac. few k. we should require a pac to identify what its purposes are. the important factor is that there are grounds for compromise and reform today.  in 2 or 3 years from  or at some time down the road when this proposal could become effective. the same problems are going to be before the senate even if this proposal were passed today. in my judgment. it is time for the senate to enact legislation to reform our system of campaign financing instead of pursuing a cause that will only serve to divide this body and postpone action on what our campaign financing system needs most. reform. so i do wish that we could move forward with some of the proposals that the entire senate can support and  get bogged down on a matter such as we have before us today. for that reason. i will vote against this resolution i thank the chair.
i move to lay that min franklin played as the founder of the cember 31. 1991. motion on the table. fire service in the united states. on each the motion to lay on the table was one dollar coin there shall be a designation sec. 107. general waiver of procurement agreed to. of the value of the coin. an inscription of regulations. the year e"1990"1 "1990" and inscriptions (a) in general.-except as provided in of the words "liberty". "in god we trust". subsection (b). provision of law governing benjamin franklin memori- "united states of america". and "e pluri- procurement or public contracts shall be apal fire service bill of bus unum". plicable to the procurement of goods or rights act (c) half dollar clad coins.- services necessary for carrying out the pro(1) issuance.-the secretary shall issue visions of this title.
. we have been debating comprehensive campaign finance reform legislation for several days. i want to commend those on both sides of the aisleespecially senator mcconnzll. senator boren. senator dolx. and senator mxtchellwho have played a key role in shaping this legislation. i am pleased to see that some new areas of agreement have been reached. particularly the restrictions on political action committees and bundling of contributions by lobbyists. substantially reduced broadcast rates for political advertisements. and some of the provisions that would deter independent expenditures. there are four goals that i believe a campaign finance reform bll should meet. first. it should limit the ability of special interests to influence the actions of those in government through political campaign contributions. second. it should improve competition in congressional campaigns. in which incumbents currently enjoy a number of advantages which inhibit the ability of challengers to compete. third. it should reduce the rising costs of campaigns. which exert tremendous pressure on all candidates to undertake virtually ceaseless solicitation activities. and fourth. it should be a bipartisan bill which does  put in place a system with buildin advantages or disadvantages for one political party. some progress toward true campaign reform has been made in this bill. the restrictions on political action committees and bundling of contributions by lobbyists and the reduced broadcast rates are steps in the right direction. unfortunately s. 3 fails to increase competition between challengers and incumbents. leaves in place the loopholes that enabled charles keatings activities to bring into question the integrity of those who serve in congress. and fails to address the key issue in reform. which is where the contributions come from. during the past several days we have heard a lot of discussion about the need to improve competition in campaigns. while there has been rhetorical agreement about this need. the outcome of votes on three amendments clearly indicates a reluctance to give challengers the same opportunities that are available to incumbents. recognizing that incumbents have builtin advantages. such as name recognition and mailing privileges. an amendment was offered and rejected that would have raised the spending limit for challengers. later. an amendment which would have allowed the political parties to provide "seed money" or matching funds to challengers in the early weeks of their campaigns. was resoundingly defeated. interestingly. the seed money amendment was based on a recommendation by the bipartisan task force on campaign reform that was named by the majority and miity leaders last year. my colleagues even rejected an amendment that would have required successful candidates to turn back unused funds. instead of starting the next campaign with a warchest left over from the previous campaign. the senate rejected competition in campaigns  less than three times during this debate. s. 3 has been promoted as a reform measure chiefly because it would put in place limits on the amounts that can be spent by congressional candidates. this would be a dramatic step for our democracy to taketo impose an arbitrary limitation on the amount a candidate can spend in an election. it may be a step that would be worth taking. if it were part of a system that truly was a level playing field. the system under s. 3 would leave the playing field tilted toward the incumbent. spending limits alone are  a panacea for improving our campaign system. if we are going to limit what a candidate can spend in an election. fairness directs that we limit all the other spending that goes on during elections. including funds spent by those who are  candidates. when viewed with this in mind. s. 3 is by means fair. its proponents point to the limits which the bill imposes on use of socalled soft moneyfunds that are raised by entities that are  subject to federal reporting requirements. yet spent in behalf of federal candidates. s. 3 is selective in the type of soft money it prohibits. it would outlaw such expenditures by the republican and democratic party organizations. yet permit the same expenditures by large corporations and labor unions. thus. candidates and political parties would be limited in what they could spend. while special interest entitieslabor unions. corporations. and trade associationscould spend whatever they wish to influence the outcome of an election. and one would k that the money had been spent until the election was over. in my view. our failure to impose any limits on those expenditures is the most disappointing aspect of this debate. the lastamendment that we voted on would have required special interests that influence the process by slipping in through the back door with soft money contributions. to report their intentions to the federal election commission 10 days prior to the expenditure. this amendment didnt even go as far as banning soft money. it simply required the reporting of union and corporate soft money expenditures. incredibly. this simple amendment was  considered to be reform. i hope that we will have aher opportunity to reach a bipartisan accord on this issue after the house takes action on campaign finance reform. the progress that has been made gives me hope that finally we will be able to eliminate soft money abuses and develop a fair and competitive system.
i should like to clarify though all such mail were letterfurther the senates intention that the shaped instead of consisting partly of department of the treasury should flatshaped pieces. then a profit attempt to accommodate the report organization could choose either to language of the house with respect to switch to lettershaped mailers or conthe establishment of a tollfree call an- tinue to send flatshaped pieces. only swering site in rhode island. within at a higher rate. the funds that have been alotted for this amendment was devised by the such a purpose. postal rate commission. the commis-
. i believe that the conference agreement would make an important change in existing law that will facilitate transfers of federal property that will. in turn. spur ecoic development around the country. while continuing without interruption the important job of cleanup. i urge my colleagues to support the conference report.
 is sure to sign into law. will cause our board of elections to throw away that system and start from scratch. in rhode island. we require proof of residence and ask the registrant to sign his or her name in two places so that an original siknature will be on file both at the polls and in the office of the board of elections. this bill  only permits an individual to register without showing any proof of identity or residence. but the board of elections in rhode island wonders what they would be required to do if the mail registration form was filled out incorrectly. would they be required to telephone each potential mail registrant. would they throw the incorrect form away and leave the individual with the mistaken belief that he or she was registered. finally. the rhode island secretary of state. barbara leonard. is deeply concerned about preventing registration by illegal aliens. this conference report fails to require any verification of citizenship. thus opening the door to registration by illegal aliens. this bill. while well motivated. is seriously flawed. the federal government should have better things to do with its time than inflict burdensome registration requirements on states that are already doing a fine job registering voters.
 clinton about campaign finance reform legislation. the letter included a brief outline of nine principles that we believe should be included in campaign finance reform legislation. requiring candidates for the house and senate to abide by the same rules is among those basic principles. i do  believe that we will have real campaign reform until we make sure that there is one set of rules. and we are all adhering to them. this amendment is a good first step and i am heartened by senator borens words in general support of the amendment.
 and the leadership outlining nine principles that we believe are essential elements of any campaign reform proposal. for the past several weeks. we have been discussing these principles with the senator from oklahoma. trying in a reasonable way to work out the problems that we have with this bill. i was under the impression that those discussions were worthwhile. and we have made some progress. the senate overwhelmingly agreed to prohibit contributions from political action committees to candidates for both the house of representativesand the senate. we agreed to the fallback provisions that would limit pac contributions to both house and senate candidates if the ban is deemed unconstitutional. we agreed to an amendment that i offered to prohibit a candidate from accepting contributions from sources outside of his or her own state. except during the 2 years prior to the date of the election. we agreed to make this bill effective upon enactment. so that we can end the troubling practices of the current system as soon as possible. and we agreed to limit the amount of money a candidate can give to his or her own campaign. thus limiting the advantages enjoyed by very rich individuals. these are all positive amendments. steps toward achieving a good campaign finance reform bill. but there is much more to accomplish. the majority leader stated that we have been on the bill for nearly 2 weeks. i agree that 2 weeks is a long time to spend on a single bill. often when a bill is under consideration for such a long time it is because much of the time has been used for lengthy quorum calls. that has  been the case with this bill. we have acted on 29 amendments. 14 were approved and 15 were rejected. clearly. a lot of work has been done on this bill. but more work is needed. if cloture is invoked. the senate is saying that we have spent egh time on this measure. our work here is done. and those who are still debating and offering amendments are doing so to prevent final passage of the bill. that is  the case with this campaign finance reform legislation. i k of several worthwhile amendments that have yet to be offered. these are constructive amendments. intended to improve this bill by closing soft money loopholes that still exist. by requiring the house and senate to abide by the same rules with regard to the use of franked mail privileges. by encouraging candidates to raise the bulk of their funds from small contributions from their own constituents. by correcting the ambiguous severability provisions in the bill. and by providing incentives to candidates to accept spending limits without asking the taxpayers to pick up the check. until we have had an opportunity to address these issues. i am  prepared to vote for cloture. in fact. i am disappointed that the majority has filed cloture so prematurely. i have interest in blocking this bill. my interest. which i have tried to make clear to the r ajority leader and the managers of the bill. is to help to construct a campaign finance reform bill that solves the problems of our current system.
i remember. when i first got in the pentagon. the phone rang from mr. packard. and i stood up before i answered it. i would like to say one other thing. i remember secretary laird saying this when he was seeking a deputy. he asked all through the business world. and he knew what he wanted. he wanted somebody who could handle the procurement side of the pentagon. mel laird and david packard worked out what you might call a "mr. inside and mr. outside" team. in which mel laird would deal with- the congress. he knew george mahon. head of the appropriations committee. intimately. he knew senator "scoop" jackson. and so forth-
senator stennis. of course. mel laird would handle the legislative side of matters. the appropriations. the relationships with the white house and with the congress. that is easy job. dave packard was assigned what you might call the inside of.the pentagon. he was the man that we would consult with on procurement problems. we were deep into procurement problemsthe f15. the f14. the 963 destroyers. the 688 class submarines. and on and on it went. those are the matters we would report to david packard on. he would watch over how we were doing and whether we were coming in on cost. whether we were meeting our milestones in the construction. and the whole process.
. the senate has the opportunity to improve the system by which we finance our elections. yesterday. the senate had before it two proposals: one sponsored by majority leader lotr and senator nickles. the other sponsored by senators mccain and feingold. much of the discussion of these proposals. both here in the senate and in the media. characterized them as mutually exclusive. for the most part. republicans were expected to support the lott proposal. and all 45 democrats and a handful of republicans were committed to vqting for mccainfeingold. the paramount goals of any true effort to reform the system of financing elections for federal office must be to reduce the influence of special interest money on elected officials and to level the playing field between incumbents and challengers. the partisan division that has created the procedural situation in which the senate found itself yesterday suggests that these goals are  yet at hand. although the proposals before us are  the final resolution to the problems that afflict the current system of campaign fundraising. they do provide a good starting point.. i voted for cloture on both the lott proposal and on . the underlying mccainfeingold bill. do i think that the majority leaders proposal is flawless. of course i dont. more than i think the mccainfeingold bill provides all of the solutions to the outrages of the 1996 elections. but. i also do  agree with those on the other side who have called the lott amendment a poison pill. the truth is that together these proposals establish a sound starting point for a reasonable debate on campaign finance. reform. its time to let the process go forward. the lott amendment should be opened up to improvements. just as the mccainfeingold bill should be amendable. as i see it. the goal of the lott amendment is meritorious. it is to give union members some say over the political uses of their money. .today. union dues are used to support or oppose particular candidates without any authorization from the dues payers. mccainfeingold takes a small step to address this problem. which amounts to compulsory contributions to candidates. under the mccainfeingold bill. dues paying. union members would be eligible for a refund if they disagreed with the political uses of their dues. that takes care of an estimated one million workers. but 16 million union members are left without any control over the political uses of their funds. that seems fundamentally unfair. senator lotts amendment seeks to address this unfairness. according to the lott amendment. unions would be prohibited from using dues for political purposes. including lobbying. unless individuals gave prior written consent. as i understand it. the prior consent requirement is viewed by opponents to be onerous. and. i think. the limitation on lobbying simply doesnt apply to the issue at handfederal election campaigns. as many k. senator se and others--who feel as i do. that this debate should mov6 forward in an effort to find common groundhave been working to refine this proposal. a vote for cloture on the lott amendment is a vote in favor of moving the process forward. it is a vote in favor of opening up the lott proposal to improvements. i also voted for cloture on the mccainfeingold bill. senators. mccain and feingold have made considerable improvements to their bill. they have worked to accommodate the concerns of other senators. particularly senator collins who has worked hard to move this process forward. i continue to have concerns about some of the provisions of the bill. the treatment of independent expenditures is  wholly satisfactory to me. although senator mccain assures me these provisions were suggested by top experts on federal elections. i filed amendments that i believe could improve the mccainfeingold bill. but. of course. the senate can get to the point of debating the merits and flaws of the bill unless cloture is invoked. as far as i am concerned. the most important problem to be addressed this year is one that barely existed a few years ago. the explosion of soft money in the process.  too many years ago. many of us were here debating whether pacs. political action committees. should be able to contribute $5.000 per candidate. per election. we worried that these pac contributions might appear to give special interests too much influence. but the soft money explosion has made those amounts seem like pocket change. i believe that if all else fails. we must deal with the soft money problem. and we must take steps. at least. to impose disclosure requirements on the money that is spent on socalled "issue ads." we also should seek common ground on the lott amendment. the senate has the opportunity to make these important changes in the current fundraising system by invoking cloture on both the lott amendment and the underlying mccainfeingold bill.
 bush. and he had recourse but to veto it. in 1993 some of us worked hard with members from the other side to craft serious legislation. but the senate bill was  agreeable to house democrats. and it languished in the house for months before any action occurred. as the election year adjournment neared. the democratic leadership reached an agreement on what would be included in a conference report before the conferees had ever met. and that agreement was far from the reform that i had hoped for and supported. in 1996. aher election year. a far less acceptable version of the mccainfeingold bill was debated and defeated. this year. supporters of reform find themselves in a slightly more hopeful position. the bill before us has been greatly improved. it has bipartisan support. and the house has already approved very similar legislation. the paramount goal of any true effort to reform the system of financing elections for federal office must be to reduce the influence of special interest money on elected officials. although the proposal before us may  be the final resolution to the problems that afflict the current system of campaign fundraising. it provides a better starting point than we have had in previous years. i urge my colleagues on this side of the aisle to take aher look at the modified version of mccainfeingold that is before us today. this is a solid proposal that addresses the soft money abuses that have effectively obliterated federal election law. it addresses the problem of unregulated. unrestricted. and unreported spending by aymous dos. it addresses blatant electioneering disguised as issue advocacy. and it eliminates emous soft money contributions from corporations and big dos. in other words. it goes a long way to reducing the influence of special interests. and i urge my colleagues on the other side  to let this debate degenerate into political gamesmanship.
. the senate has the opportunity to improve the system by which we finance our elections. yesterday. the senate had before it two proposals: one sponsored by majority leader lotr and senator nickles. the other sponsored by senators mccain and feingold. much of the discussion of these proposals. both here in the senate and in the media. characterized them as mutually exclusive. for the most part. republicans were expected to support the lott proposal. and all 45 democrats and a handful of republicans were committed to vqting for mccainfeingold. the paramount goals of any true effort to reform the system of financing elections for federal office must be to reduce the influence of special interest money on elected officials and to level the playing field between incumbents and challengers. the partisan division that has created the procedural situation in which the senate found itself yesterday suggests that these goals are  yet at hand. although the proposals before us are  the final resolution to the problems that afflict the current system of campaign fundraising. they do provide a good starting point.. i voted for cloture on both the lott proposal and on . the underlying mccainfeingold bill. do i think that the majority leaders proposal is flawless. of course i dont. more than i think the mccainfeingold bill provides all of the solutions to the outrages of the 1996 elections. but. i also do  agree with those on the other side who have called the lott amendment a poison pill. the truth is that together these proposals establish a sound starting point for a reasonable debate on campaign finance. reform. its time to let the process go forward. the lott amendment should be opened up to improvements. just as the mccainfeingold bill should be amendable. as i see it. the goal of the lott amendment is meritorious. it is to give union members some say over the political uses of their money. .today. union dues are used to support or oppose particular candidates without any authorization from the dues payers. mccainfeingold takes a small step to address this problem. which amounts to compulsory contributions to candidates. under the mccainfeingold bill. dues paying. union members would be eligible for a refund if they disagreed with the political uses of their dues. that takes care of an estimated one million workers. but 16 million union members are left without any control over the political uses of their funds. that seems fundamentally unfair. senator lotts amendment seeks to address this unfairness. according to the lott amendment. unions would be prohibited from using dues for political purposes. including lobbying. unless individuals gave prior written consent. as i understand it. the prior consent requirement is viewed by opponents to be onerous. and. i think. the limitation on lobbying simply doesnt apply to the issue at handfederal election campaigns. as many k. senator se and others--who feel as i do. that this debate should mov6 forward in an effort to find common groundhave been working to refine this proposal. a vote for cloture on the lott amendment is a vote in favor of moving the process forward. it is a vote in favor of opening up the lott proposal to improvements. i also voted for cloture on the mccainfeingold bill. senators. mccain and feingold have made considerable improvements to their bill. they have worked to accommodate the concerns of other senators. particularly senator collins who has worked hard to move this process forward. i continue to have concerns about some of the provisions of the bill. the treatment of independent expenditures is  wholly satisfactory to me. although senator mccain assures me these provisions were suggested by top experts on federal elections. i filed amendments that i believe could improve the mccainfeingold bill. but. of course. the senate can get to the point of debating the merits and flaws of the bill unless cloture is invoked. as far as i am concerned. the most important problem to be addressed this year is one that barely existed a few years ago. the explosion of soft money in the process.  too many years ago. many of us were here debating whether pacs. political action committees. should be able to contribute $5.000 per candidate. per election. we worried that these pac contributions might appear to give special interests too much influence. but the soft money explosion has made those amounts seem like pocket change. i believe that if all else fails. we must deal with the soft money problem. and we must take steps. at least. to impose disclosure requirements on the money that is spent on socalled "issue ads." we also should seek common ground on the lott amendment. the senate has the opportunity to make these important changes in the current fundraising system by invoking cloture on both the lott amendment and the underlying mccainfeingold bill.
 bush. and he had recourse but to veto it. in 1993 some of us worked hard with members from the other side to craft serious legislation. but the senate bill was  agreeable to house democrats. and it languished in the house for months before any action occurred. as the election year adjournment neared. the democratic leadership reached an agreement on what would be included in a conference report before the conferees had ever met. and that agreement was far from the reform that i had hoped for and supported. in 1996. aher election year. a far less acceptable version of the mccainfeingold bill was debated and defeated. this year. supporters of reform find themselves in a slightly more hopeful position. the bill before us has been greatly improved. it has bipartisan support. and the house has already approved very similar legislation. the paramount goal of any true effort to reform the system of financing elections for federal office must be to reduce the influence of special interest money on elected officials. although the proposal before us may  be the final resolution to the problems that afflict the current system of campaign fundraising. it provides a better starting point than we have had in previous years. i urge my colleagues on this side of the aisle to take aher look at the modified version of mccainfeingold that is before us today. this is a solid proposal that addresses the soft money abuses that have effectively obliterated federal election law. it addresses the problem of unregulated. unrestricted. and unreported spending by aymous dos. it addresses blatant electioneering disguised as issue advocacy. and it eliminates emous soft money contributions from corporations and big dos. in other words. it goes a long way to reducing the influence of special interests. and i urge my colleagues on the other side  to let this debate degenerate into political gamesmanship.
 of the united states than i am. he has done a superb job in many areas. and i am proud that he is the standard bearer of my party. but the last time somebody tried to rush something through the senate. i believe it was called the gulf of tonkin resolution. so i stand very much in opposition to the extreme haste of the attempt to bring to a close the discussion on this emously important issue. i do  doubt the competency of administration officials in their analysis and their recommendation to the senate of this loan. but. again. may i point out the vast resources of the administration and of its agencies. and the amount of time they took. and the really minimal resources of the members of this body in trying to make the same type of analysis. so if we have given the administration time to arrive at its conclusion. it would  be too much to ask that we have a decent period of time before we must decide so complex an issue. i should like  to refer to the coinments of the senator from alabama. the senator from alabama. i believe. tried to draw a parallel between the lockheed situation and the penn central case. there are several very important differences.  1. the penn central is engaged in a public service business. that case in way represents a precedent for bailing out the commercial end of lockheed. lockheed is strictly privately owned. for profit. it is  engaged in public service. the penn central is.
i thank the senator from alabama. comments also were made that lockheed is the biggest defense contractor in the united states. if that is true. i think it also can be stated that it is the worst. on the basis of its track record. if we are going to subsidize business in the united states. i say we should subsidize the smallest and the best. rather than the biggest and the worst. with respect to the comments of the senator from texas relative to secretary laird and secretary packardof whom we both share the highest opinionthe problem is. as i stated yesterday on the floor of the senate. that the proponents of this bill care to rush it through. this is clear from the cloture motion. frankly. those of us who stand on the floor of the senate trying to generate debate. trying t. get the american people aroused about this issue. are accused of a filibuster. but i also stated at the time that the one factor we have running in our favor is time. because the longer the customer is kept in the store to watch this rubberband engine or a bubble gum plugged boat. the better the chance that the leaks are going to start to spring. and. in effect. they have. i appreciate the letters that the senator received today from secretary laird and assistant secretary packard. but may i please quote from secretary lairds comments the newspaper headline or the editorializing. but the direct quote. "there is a difference within the administration." laird said. "i dont think you can say there is  . . . but dave packard feels very strongly that weve got to toughen up on the procurement policies as far as the government is concerned and ... i want you to k that i support dave packard." i do  believe the two exactly run tcgether. but the first portion makes it clear there is a difference of opinion in the administration. that is to the credit of the administration. that is why i am proud of the president and this administration. differences are encouraged. so it is that on the floor of the senate. differences should be encouraged and  quashed.  clamped down upon. and  dispensed with in a hasty and cavalier fashion.  to the senator from texas . i should like to ask him. is he willing to state again. without reservation. as he indicated. that  one dime in the $250 million guarantee will be paid out. is he willing to state that again. that  one dime will be paid out on this guarantee.
. i thank the distinguished senator from nebraska because he has put his finger on the key issue of priorities. i am sure the distinguished senator from nebraska receives daily in his mail pleas from his constituents relative to problems of employment. problems of health. problems of transportation. problems of housing. problems of environment. disease. and so forth. i would like to k from the senator from nebraska just how many cards and letters he has received imploring him to do something about supplying him or anybody else on this floor with additional campaign funds.
. aside from the relative merits or performance of one aircraft versus aher. the enforcer presents a question of farreaching concern to all of usmembers of congress and taxpayers alike. i find it difficult to understand why it is that the department of defense and the military services have repeatedly denied requests to test the enforcer and deny a company entry into a competitive arena after it has developed an aircraft on its own and without the luxury of taxpayer support. it is increasingly difficult to understand a system which has discouraged competition and which denies individual initiative. the developers of the enforcer are asking that it be tested. the enforcer may or may  have a place in the military arsenal. however. we will never k unless it is tried and tested. the funds requested for testing the enforcer are small indeed when compared to the potential cost savings which would be accrued if it is proven to warrant a slot in the military inventory. the debate over the size and wisdom of various defense programs grows and intensifies with each years authorization and appropriations bills. as we in the congress increase our scrutiny and examination of the programs of civil agencies. we are also dutybound to examine with the same sobriety the programs and operations of the department of defense. in recent years. we have learned that the civil agencies do  have a mooly on inefficiency and waste. the latest selected acquisition report has pointed to an alarming $30 billion growth over planning estimates during the last calendar year on 50 major weapons systems programs. more intolerable than the overruns themselves is the procurement system which produces and perpetuates such increases. all too often the defense department and the military services proceed with an early sole source contract award. several years down the road. we in the congress find that the costs have grown and a competitive alternative is either longer available. or is impracticable from the standpoint of time. at that point. the choices are  easy. we must either terminate the program or go ahead with a program several times more expensive than the planning estimate. we have an opportunity before us to give individual initiative an opportunity to perform. and at the same time. we keep alive the possibility of a lower cost alternative system to our current close air support aircraft. i. therefore. urge that we give the enforcer its chance to be proven. in order to do so. we must first defeat this amendment.
i respectfully would disagree with my colleague on that point. i think it would have been far more preferable to have had the lessor as the ineee for this position because apparently the doubts that occurred to him and on which he acted in arranging a lease between himself and creative. those doubts were never resolved in the mind of the president of creative clearly because of the conflict of interest that he had both in his financial interest in comac and with his relationships with the parsons group. i will move on to the next question. during the course of the hearings. when mr. stewart was queried as to why creative entered into a 20year lease for 14.000 square feet of office space and assumed primary liability on a $3.5 million lease. while having only six employees. he stated that "parsons had some ambitious programs for this company."
. i urge that the amendment offered by senators hathaway and nuni be accepted. this substitute for senator chiles amendment vitiates the concerns expressed by the governmental affairs committee after its consideration of chapter 3 of title 2 of h.r. 11318. one concern of that committee was that the determination of whether a contractors small and miity business subcontracting plan is acceptable should be made earlier in the procurement process than the original section of h.r. 11318 provided for. however. the select committee on small business did  want each applicant for a government contract to be burdened with the complications and expenses of providing such a subcontracting plan in each bid. the substitute offered by senators hathaway and nunn provides a solomontype solution to problems posed by these conflicting interests. their compromise requires that. for negotiated procurement. only those firms in a competitive range for a government contract to submit a small and miity business subcontract plan. because of the procedure followed in formally advertised procurements. all bidders are required to submit such a bid. the hathawaynunn substitute solves other differences in an equally sagacious manner. therefore. i fully support this compromise and advocate its adoption.
. i would like to annce that the senate smallbusiness committee will hold a hearing on s. 2147. a bill to reauthorize the eligibility of sheltered workshops to compete on federal procurement contracts on march 26. 1986. the hearing will commence at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call ed tiryakian. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i rise in support of the united statescanada freetrade agreement. i believe this agreement will benefit new england and the nation in expanding our trading relationship with our largest trading partner. canada. connecticut has approximately $2 billion of trade with canada which will be enhanced by the elimination of tarlifs between our two countries. removing the large number of trade barriers and discriminatory practices that have been erected can only enhance the flow of trade and allow our nations to grow. the scol)e of the freetrade agreeient is impressive. canada will expand its government procurement markets to united states businesses. american financial services and investments in canada will be given far greater opportualties under the ogreement. future trade disputes will be resolved by a new binational commission which will hopefully reduce the frictions we have experienced in recent years. this agreement is testimony to the alliance of our two countries. there are guarantees and the agreement is far from perfect. it. is however a symbol of the commitment that the united states and canada have in the future growth of trade between our nations.
. committee amendment  3 is identical to aher committee amendment that has been adopted. except that it applies to those in the civil service being able to come under the purview of the bill. for the purpose of taking care of their disabled children of 18 years of age.
. of the subcommittee on postal rates. i want to express my sincere pleasure at being able to join with my distinguished colleagues in this effort. i also would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the hoable ard olsen. of montana. chairman of our subcommittee. who worked diligently in preparing this important legislation.
. i also rise in support of this legislation. which i consider very desirable legislation. and i speak as a member of the committee on post office and civil service. which has already approved the bill. i believe that my few observations here may have some pertinence in view of what i understood to be a suggestion that perhaps what you do with the census is merely gather statistics. i would like to point out some actual need for the data to be derived by the census. and to point out that although our original intention was that all the american people. businessmen. farmers. and the local governments--in short. the people as a wholehave access to all the data. that this in itself was a break with the historic past. because going all the way back to the time of the caesars there had been censuses taken. but they had been for the benefit of the government only. we broke with the past by saying that there was to be a principle of full disclosure for the benefit of all. i say that this does  exclude even such .a company as the american telephone & telegraph co. our purpose with the census remains the same. though the decennial censuses still are available to all. there is certainly a significant difference  in its actual utility. for at least 5 years we k out of every decade census figures are longer accurate because they are simply too old to use. it is only  in the last half of the present decade that we realize how insufficiently we are equipped with social statistics to deal with problems that confront us. the most recent complete population statistics we have to help guide us in problem solving are  7 years oldstatistics gathered in 1960. these census figures are. in fact. misleading when they are relied on as factual data in a country where 4 million people are born every year. and where. by the middle of each decade. half the people live somewhere other than where they did when the census was taken. until the next census in 1970 we have to support legislation. and make business decisions as well. with only "guesstimates" from the federal government. based on outmoded data. these calculated guesses are interesting indeed. but they are of reliable use to local governments. businessmen. or school boards. for example. to take one isolated instance from the business world. this guesswork is worse than useless to a company like bell telephone. which spends. in new construction. more than $31/2 billion each year to provide new facilities for new customers. they need information down to the city block level at least every 5 years. it seems to me. then. that business enterprise has an actual and vital claim on uptodate information because its spending has to be so much more specific in order to justify. for example. $45 billion in construction each year.
that certainly is true. it is a point well taken. there are thousands of needs for census data. and they are increasing every day. for example. the superintendent of schools of my city of albany has to have local figures. and local figures or small area data. as they are called. come almost exclusively from the national census. congress itself has a need for more uptodate population. unemployment. and housing statistics. the executive departments have a need for the statisics. local governments--92.000 local governments of the united stateshave a need for august 1*0. 1967 fresh statistics. in the future. uptodate census data may very well be used to get fairer representation on federal jury panels. . i join in asking the house for an aye vote in support of h.r. 7659. the middecade national census.
. the postal reform bill is the culmination of the efforts by many to give this nation a postal service second to e. i do  view it as an instrument to reform the labor laws of the land and have difficulty understanding those who do. postal reform legislation is  labor law legislation. regardless of those who would have us believe so. if the postal employee. as a public servant. does  have the right to strike. he must be provided with a suitable alternative. the alternative can only be to sit down with management and discuss and negotiate. and what he can negotiate. in good conscience. should be less than what workers in the private sector are afforded. that union security provisions are bargatnable items is true. they are bargainable just as other items such as wages and working conditions. but there are those who would believe. and have all believe. that the union shop is included in the reform package. this is more true than saying that a postal employees salarywhich will be bargainablewill be equal to the postmaster generals.
. this amendment to section 1202 is in place of the previous public service amendment. this amendment removes provisions in the bill permitting the postal service to increase charges on free and reduced rate mail if congress does  provide appropriations to subsidize such mail. congress would then continue to determine which mail users would be ena titled to free and reduced rates unde public service. e the free and reduced rates affected by i this amendment include free mail for the s blind. the nationwide uniform rate fox t books. educational films and tests. recordings. and other educational and culn tural materials. the library rate for the - interchange of materials between lit braries and between libraries and their patrons. the special rate for charitable. i educational. religious and other profit organizations. and the rate for publications within the county of - publication. the public service involved in these rates varies from one to aher and depends. of course. on the accounting system which will be used by the new postal service. the public service cost for some of these rates is quite modest. for ex* ample. on the special fourthclass rate for books and other educational ma* terials the present rates  cover 88 percent of demonstrably related costs. these rates play a very important edu1 cational and social role. the rate on books. for example. permits users of booksand they pay the postageto obtain a book through the mails at the same postage cost whether they live in areas remote from the publishing. centers or whether they live immediately adjacent to those centers. thus. a school or a library buying books in california need only pay 18 cents on the typical 2pound package. this has been in effect for 32 years. previously. books had to be shipped by zoned parcel post. which greatly penalized schools. libraries. and individuals far from the publishing centers. the library rate greatly increases the efficiency of the countrys library system by permitting the loan of specialized volumes by one library to aher. and also in permitting libraries to serve by mail their patrons in rural areas. in my own state of new york the commissioner of education informs me that the difference between the special rate and zoned parcel post would cost libraries and educational institutions in the state at least $1 million annually. the cost to libraries and schools nationwide would be about $10 million. the rate for charitable. educational. religious. and profit institutions is the backbone of many important charitable activities such as save the children foundation. easter seal campaign. and many of the important catholic. protestant. and other religious charities. since these activities are worthy in their own right and also constitute a direct saving to the taxpayer in taking over functions which would otherwise have to be handled by appropriation of public money. the encouragement of these activities is deserving of our fullest support. many educational. library. religious. and charitable organizations are supporting this amendment. including american library association. national education association. u.s. catholic conference. protestant churchowned publishers association. the evangelical press association. and the associated church press. i strongly urge support for the amendment.
. i believe that this bill is a happy compromise between these two extremes and will provide the kind of mail service needed by the american people. the committee worked a long time in drafting this legislation and. i feel. did a good job. i grant that there are imperfections. one in particular is the lack of special rate considerations for educational. religious. and charitable organizations. i attempted to change this during debate on h.r. 17070. but unsuccessfully. the impact of the loss of this free or reduced rate privilege currently in effect is little short of catastrophic for these groups and organizations. i am grateful to new york state commissioner of education. ewald b. nyquist. for his support of my amendment. in a letter sent to members of the new york congressional delegation. commissioner nyquist underscored the need for this type of free or reduced rate privilege. he said: adverse effects in the postal rates for libraries and educational institutions in new york state will cost at least $1 million annually. the effect of this could mean a reduction in the availability of services and materials at a very iportune time. i also wish to thank the new york state teachers association for its support. with special thanks to g. howard goold. executive secretary of the association. for his endorsement of the amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial published in todays new york times concerning uniform methods of accounting for defense contractors. last week. the general accounting office issued its report on this subject which indicated that the application of uniform standards is feasible and that uniform machinery should be developed. this subject is extremely important in light of recent cost overruns which have occurred in large military procurement contracts. the committee on banking and currency will be considering the subject issue shortly. i anticipate that the problems alluded to. in the editorial. will be addressed in sufficient detail so that sound legislative action may be taken this year.
. i wish to express my own support for the careful argument concerning the dd963 destroyer competition which the distinguished senior senator from maine presented yesterday. when such a massive procurement is undertaken. every effort must be made to insure  only efficiency of production in the short run. but the maintenance of an adequate defense mobilization base for the long run. i will  comment in detail at this time upon the particular circumstances of the award of the destroyer contract to litton industries. however. i certainly share senator smths apprehension that concentrating this production contract in the hands of a single firm. which is already carrying the largest new ship construction backlog in the industry. is risky. reent experience with major defense contracts amply justifies a cautious approach to such a decision. senator smith has set forth a number of questions which deserve thorough examination. her request that the general accounting office investigate them promptly should be heeded. one can understand the navys desire to develop specialized shipbuilding capabilities. but there is a valid basis for concern over the wisdom of the decision in the case of the dd963. prudence demands that we take the reasonable precautions recommended by the senator from maine before the government commits itself irrevocably to the proposed procurement of these ships in a single shipyard.
. the report of the blue ribbon defense panel includes many important recommendations which deserve careful study by the congress and the executive. at this time i shall  comment upon the merit of the various proposals with one exception. the panel recommends a longneeded change in the policy of anncing defense contract awards through congressional offices. the longstanding practice of advanced ices to congressional offices has created totally unwarranted implications that congressional offices have somehow been influential in the process of selecting defense contractors. were this in fact the case. the integrity of the defense procurement process would be gravely jeopardized. actually. the customary advance ification has been merely a device for permitting those of us in congress to be the bearers of glad tidings to our constituents. and i less than my colleagues. have been pleased to convey such good news. however. the panels recommendation is surely well grounded. even if the process of congressional anncement in way impairs the impartiality of contract awards. it breeds a cynicism and suspicion that political influence has been brought to bear. while the shortrun benefits of making these anncements may be attractive to those of us in congress. those benefits are outweighed by the tendency to undermine public confidence in the decisionmaking process ot the defense department and indeed of the entire government. for this reason. i wholeheartedly endorse the panels recommendation on this point. i believe this policy should be applied uniformly. as the commission urged. and i welcome senator williams leadership in offering this amendment. i hope the senate adopts it unanimously. i shall. of course. continue to do everything in my power to see that the workers and employers of massachusetts are permitted to compete fairly for all government business.
of course. the senator is well aware of the statement which secretary packard prepared for the house banking and currency committee for delivery on july 19. i am sure. it has been referred to in this debate. but i just refer the senator to page 13 of that statement. in which he stated: it is this last point which leads into the reasons i do  support extending a broad federal loan guarantee authority to the defense industry or any other industry at this time. this problem we face with lockheed is the result of past procurement policies. practices and attitudes of both the department of defense and the industry that develops and produces defense products. in the case of lockheed. both the department and the company are at fault. past policies have encouraged defense contractors. large and small to take on programs beyond their means. that is what happened with the l1011. lockheed could assume ways would be found to cover large overruns which might occur on their defense programs. this had always been done in the past. this. i am sure. was the calculation the lockheed management made in deciding whether to take on a major program such as the l1011 which even at best would stretch the company resources to the limit. during the last two and a half years we have been trying to correct these procurement practices that have been followed in the past. some progress has been made. but we have much more to do. for this reason. we. in the department of defense. do  need  want a broad loan guarantee bill which will only encourage a continuation of these practices which have caused this trouble. in other words.  only is this  helping national defense and its procurement. it is hindering national defense and its procurement. and the defense department in this statement says it does  want it for that very same reason. that they are trying to improve their procurement practices. and that if we give them this broad bill. we are  only  going to help them. but we are going to hurt them in correcting what they admit has been a bad procurement practice. so i think. on the basis of that. we have reason to believe that secretary packard did  mean what he said. we both agree he is a very hoable man. and a very objective man. i think even when he was before the senate banking committee he was trying his best to support his administration and. at the same time. all his objective views as to this lockheed bailout bill. i think he did that. if the senator reads between the lines and studies closely mr. packards testimony. he will have to arrive at the conclusion that david packard is  and has never been in support of the lockheed bailout bill.  only because he thinks it is bad business but also because he thinks it is bad for the defense department. and he definitely does  believe that it is in the interests of national defense.
. the nation. the commonwealth of massachusetts. and the republican party are diminished by the passing of sinclair weeks who died yesterday. fittingly egh. in concord. mass.-where american patriotism had its beginnings. .sinclair weeks was a patriot and a public man in the best sense of those overused wordsalways committed to a cause in which he believed. always caring. always giving of himself. he was a versatile man. a wise man. a good man. who never lost his zest for and love of politics and business. he cherished his family. and he gave unstintingly of his time and talents to harvard. theastern university. andin the last years of his lifeto the university of his adopted statenew hampshire. .sinclair weeks did  hold public office. he filled the assignments he undertook with matchless esprit and a sure grasp of what needed to be done and how to do it. it is comforting to k that the weeks tradition of and for public service has been and will be carried on by his children. the trail of constructive and imaginative political action which their father and grandfather blazed will. i k. continue to be an inspiration to the children. grandchildren. and greatgrandchildren sinclair weeks leaves behind.
. senator kennedy and i have joined to introduce legislation naming the new federal office building in fitchburg. mass.. in ho of the late representative philip j. philbin. phil philbin represented the thern worcester county area in the congress for nearly three decades. he was a diligent and fairminded public servant. he served the broad interests of this nation as chairman of the house armed services committee. and he represented his district well. never failing to tend to countless details of interest to his constituents. he was a lifelong resident of clinton. mass.. a lovely town just south of fitchburg. it is largely as a result of his persistent efforts that a badly needed federal office complex will be constructed in fitchburg. housing the postal service and several federal agencies. it is therefore especially fitting that this federal office building be named in his ho. this proposal has the active support of mayor carleton e. blackwell. of fitchburg. and the countless residents who knew and cherished phil philbin during his many years of public service. i hope that the senate will give its prompt approval to this proposal. by mr. ervin (for himself and mr. pearson):
i had understood that this was to be a debate on u.s. foreign policy. the media had advertised it as one in which the u.s. senate would have one of its finest hours in debating the postwar foreign policy of this country. the focus would be on what that policy should be. what guidelines we should evolve to direct our efforts in the next 10 years or possibly beyond thatthe next two or three decades. it seems to me that the discussion so far has been on a matter which would be the proper subject for an amendment to the authorization bill. namely. whether we should field 14 divisions or 16 divisions. of course. that is a very important consideration. but it is the proper subject for an amendment rather than a primary focus for a general foreign policy debate. we started to touch upon the proper nature of such a debate when the distinguished senator from arizona got into the subject of nuclear weapons and whether we should have a firststrike posture or rely upon a secondstrike deterrent capability. that certainly would be proper subject matter for a foreign policy debate. i can also understand why we might focus on the general relationship between conventional warfare and u.s. foreign policy as proper subject mattpr for this debate. but i do  think we ought to allow the debate to become completely unstructured. we ought to get down to specifics. we ought to talk about what our policy should be in portugal. what our policy should be in cyprus. these are the issues that it seems to me we should be discussing in this debate. i feel. . that the distinguished senator from california. recognizing this danger. will manage this debate tomorrow so that when we get into strategic policy. and its impact on our relations with other countries. we can focus on specific policy alternative that will help us correct the deficiencies of the past. this is what we should be discussing at this time. even though we are considering the military procurement authorization bill. which comes first. the chicken or the egg. i do  k. but it seems to me we should adjust our defense to serve our foreign policy rather than vice versa. the senate can perform a service in this debate by identifying areas where our defense posture may be out of phase with altered foreign policy needs.
. it has been one of my very great privileges to have served for 10 years in the senate under the leadership of mike mansfield. he has been fair. unfailingly courteous. and always refreshingly candid. more importantly he has been a key mover  only on the many critical social issues before the senate but also on the important institutional reforms that have come before us. yet to me mike mansfield has always been much more. to me he has been and always will be a friend. when i came to the senate in january of 1967. there were times when i thought my new surroundings would all but overwhelm me. and well they may have had it  been for the senior senator from montana. his help and guidance in those early months were invaluable. his friendship reassuring. when i heard that mnke mansfield would retire at the end of this session of congress. i knew that montana and the senate were losing an outstanding senator and majority leader. and i knew that this country was losing an excellent public servant. but i also knew that my colleagues and i would be losing a courageous leader. i will miss mike mansfield of montana next year. i will miss his patience. his understanding. and his guidance. i take heart in the thought that we will see him again in this city and in this chamber as he will doubt continue to serve our country as the statesman that he is. but i am sure that his plans call for a little time to himself and his lovely and devoted wife. maureen. after 34 years of public service in the congress. it will be time to which she and he are surely entitled.
. it is difficult to believe that mike mansfield will soon be retiring. for 24 years in this chamber. 16 of them as majority leader. he has left his indelible mark on the senate. this body will  be the same without him. mike mansfields brand of leadership has manifested itself in many ways. legislatively he has been one of the most influential senators in senate history. it is accurate to say that without his effective leadership many of the major legislative accomplishments of the past two decades would  have been enacted. in particular he has made invaluable contributions to the passage of civil rights bills and other major domestic legislation. and all of us k of mike mansfields special expertise in the area of foreign policy. many have followed his leadership on critical foreign policy issues and the country has profited thereby. in addition to his legislative accomplishments. mike mansfield has made perhaps his greatest contributions in opening up senate procedures. under his leadership. the senate has become a body of 100 equal members. every senator. matter how junior. is free to express his views and exercise his senatorial prerogatives without reservation. this trend to senatorial equality has made the senate a more effective aid responsive institution. as important as mike mansfields contributions to the senate have been. i believe most of his colleagues will remember mike mansfield for the type of man he is. they will remember his integrity. his unfailing courtesy. his fairness and his steadfast commitment to the senate and to his country. but i believe. more than anything else. we will remember his friendship. all of us can recall numerous occasions when he thoughtfully assisted us in a time of need. i remember well when i first came to the senate in january of 1967. there were times when i thought my new surroundings would all but overwhelm me. and well they may have had it  been for the senior senator from montana. his help and guidance .in these early months were invaluable. his friendship. reassuring. i will miss mr. mansfield of montana next year. i will miss his patience. his understanding. and his guidance. i take heart in the thought that we will see him again in this city and in this chamber as he will doubt continue to serve our country as the statesman that he is. but i am sure that his plans call for a little time for himself and his lovely and devoted wife. maureen. after 34 years of public service in the congress. it will be time to which she and he are surely entitled.
. is the senator from indiana saying that the case for a conflict of interest is without a scintilla of evidence. are you saying that in the calhoun case. where judge bell had previously given legal counsel. and where he. subsequently sat on the case and wrote the opinion. that there is appearance of a conflictofinterest.
 deems it necessary to reconstitute the board to cope with procurement needs during a national emergency. this bill was reported out of the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee as a substitute for s. 1594. which would have extended and broadened the authority of the renegotiation board. the simple fact is that the renegotiation board is a bureaucracy which has outlived it usefulness. during the 1950s. the board was an important part of the procurement process. serving as a watchdog that saved the taxpayers millions of dollars. in recent years. however. it has become a superfluous and counterproductive bureaucracy. which spends more money auditing defense contractors than it collects in the form of excess profits. it also has frustrated efforts to administer our defense industrial base in an efficient and effective manner. recent studies by the general accounting office and others have indicated that the renegotiation board costs the taxpayer between $3 and $5 for every $1 which it returns to the treasury as a result of actions taken by the board. the current actthe renegotiation act of 1951was passed in response to the abmal procurement situations associated with the korean war. that the renegotiation act was intended as a temporary. emergency measure is evidenced by the fact that its expiration date was set for 2 years from the date of enactment. however. this "temporary legislation" has been amended and extended 13 times in the past 25 years. the authority of the renegotiation board. which administers the act. was finally allowed to expire on september 30. 1976. without authorizing legislation. the board has authority to review contracts concluded after that date. it is. however. currently working on a 5year backlog of contracts concluded prior to the expiration. in recent years. almost all of the boards determinations have been against smaller firms. producing low techogy products. this does  mean that larger defense contractors have been escaping the renegotiation process through subterfuge. rather. it indicates that. on the whole. the procurement process has been working and the government has been driving hard bargains. low levels of profitability have been verified by recent studies of defense and defenserelated industries and by the published statistics of the renegotiation board itself relating to overall renegotiable earnings. in fact. there is compelling evidence that profits in the defense industry may be inadequate for the maintenance of an effective and efficient defense industrial base and for assuring competition within that base. the profit 76 department of defense study analyzed a 5year period of defense industry profits. that study found that. when measured on the basis of sales. defense contractors profits on the average were lower than those in commercial business. during the 197074 period. pretax profits of defense contractors averaged 4.7 percent on sales. while the profits of commercial producers of durable goods averaged 6.7 percent. if the congress wishes to improve the procurement process to protect against undue profits and inefficiency. it seems reasonable that we attack this problem at the heart. at the beginning of the process. through better contracting and auditing procedures. renegotiation was conceived as a safety net to guard against hasty or faulty procuring techniques. that it is longer needed is evident. indeed. in recent years it has only compounded the problem it was designed to ameliorate. i urge my colleagues to join with me in ridding our government of this archaic bureaucracy.o by mr. abourezk. from the select committee on indian affairs. without amendment: h.r. 2540. an act pertaining to the inheritance of trust or restricted lands on the umatilla indian reservation (rept.  95718). by mr. abourezk. from the select committee on indian affairs. with amendments:
. h. r. 5059. as reported by the committee on the post office and post roads. represents the minimum in fundamental justice to the postal employees of the government. although it originally provided a temporary increase of $300. with an increase of 15 cents per hour for hourly or parttime employees and additional compensation of 15 percent for postmasters at post offices of the fourth class. the committee amendment provides a permanent increase of $400. with a 20cent increase for hourly or parttime employees and additional compensation of 20 percent for postmasters in fourthclass offices. the committee report states concisely the reasons for the committees decision and the purpose of the legislation. useful purpose will be served by any prolonged debate over a proposition so basically sound as this legislation. i have  supported and never shall support the expenditure of federal funds i believe to be unjustified. but. in recognizing the facts as to the increased cost of living. as they apply to this group of federal employees. the expenditure involved is fully justified. certainly we should all be concerned as to the waste and extravagance involved in the overstaffing and duplication existing in some federal agencies. but this is definitely  apparent in our post offices. rather we are dealing with a group of public servants scattered throughout this nation and in every territory who. day in and day out. have won the complete confidence and respect of the country by their loyal. industrious. and efficient work. their fidelity to their duty is beyond question. it is exaggeration to say that this group of federal employees. by their own efforts. has established itself as the most trusted and most highly respected of any in the federal service. while it would be a miracle if there were exceptions in such a large group. it is safe to say that the overwhelming majority more than earn every cent this government pays them. therefore. they have every right to expect just treatment from us and to expect us to work with them to provide the american people with constantly better postal service. the first. and most immediate. step in that direction is the recognition of the fact that since last july 1 their compensation has been reduced by circumstances over which they had control. the committee amendment seeks to meet that situation as fairly as possible to all concerned. the case of these employees has been presented. as is always true. thoroughly to the committee. i understand that it meets with the substantial approval of the postal employees and my mail confirms that. i hope that the result will receive the prompt and overwhelming endorsement of the house this aftern and that it may become law in the immediate future.
. i do  want to detain the committee at this late hour but i do feel compelled to ask certain questions of the committee in terms of subsection (b) of section 112. which provides: (b) the procurement of petroleum and petroleum products under this title shall. to the maximum extent practicable. be made from petroleum sources outside the united states. and. in furnishing commodities under the provisions of this title. the administrator shall take fully into account the present and anticipated world shortage of petroleum and its products and the consequent undesirability of expansion in petroleumconsuming equipment where the use of alternate fuels or other sources of power is practicable. my object is twofold. first i want to emphasize the soundness of what was stated here a moment ago by the gentleman from arkansas in terms of any undertaking to build up competitive industry in some of these other countries at the expense of our own domestic industries and to inquire what precautions the committee has in mind that should be unquestionably taken by the administrator to prevent that result.
may i say further that the committee report points out clearly that the "equipment shops." an item of $13.000.000 on page 12. line 6. refers to mail bags. and the "equipment. public buildings. $532.000." in line 7. does  include any proposed installation or conversion such as we have been discussing.
. i am glad indeed to join in this richly deserved tribute to our former colleague. harry towe. i k that to him the opportunity for further public service in his own state is a very challenging one. beyond that it must mean a great deal to him and to his family to anticipate life at home. and so. with his other friends here. i am happy that he has received this wellmerited appointment. however. his leaving congress is a distinct loss to his district. his state. and this nation. harry brought to his service in congress a fine legal mind. a deep sense of responsibility and unquestioned integrity and courage. all of his decisions and the entire conduct of his office were in terms of what he deeply believed to be in the best interest of this country and the people who repeatedly hoed him by election and reelection as their representative. we shall miss him very much personally. i hope that he will have occasion to return here frequently. i k that he will have an interesting experience in his new office and that he will serve the state of new jersey with ability and fidelity. with all his other friends here. it is a pleasure to have this means of expressing publicly my personal high opinion of him and my sincere best wishes for many happy years of added service to the people of new jersey.
 called specific attention to the fact that the plan "should  preclude the consideration by the congress of legislation to effect refinements and modifications in the basic law in this field": the one example he cited as to an amendment to the civil aeronautics act "to provide specifically that compensatory rates for mail transportation should be based upon the cost of handling mail services. plus a fair return." is an excellent one. and when he states that he believes "it would be appropriate to establish the cost principle as a matter of definite legislative policy." i am confident that he will have widespread support of that recommendation. in that connection. i want to quote briefly. first. from the report of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce in connection with such legislation. and. next. from the report of a miity of that committee submitted july 2. 1952. accompanying s. 436:
. may i also say with reference to an inquiry just propounded by the distinguished gentleman from massachusetts . asking if there are any funds in the post office appropriation for the new fiscal year for the payment for commercial air transportation of military mail by the united states and foreign countries. the answer is in the negative. there are funds for this purpose in this bill. the post office department delivers mail to the various apo offices in our country. such as new york and san francisco. and the responsibility from there on rests with the defense establishment. this amendment as it appears in here i think might be distorted through a misconstruction. usually military mail tendered by the defense department or by the post office department to commercial carriers would have to be paid for at the rate set for the post office department by the civil aeronautics board. in the atlantic run. for example. this restriction in the senate amendment might be thought to mean that the post office would have to pay prevailing rates set by the civil aeronautics board at 85 cents per tonmile and the defense department would have to reimburse the post office department at that same rate of 85 cents per tonmile. however. i understand that a number of offers have been made to the defense department for daily service on the european channel at rates of only 25 cents per tonmile. use by the defense department of commercial air carriers at this low rate instead of the high rate. on the european channel alone at present volume. would save the defense department approximately $8.000 per day. certainly that would be an important and highly desirable ecoy. i sincerely trust the conferees feel as the gentleman from new jersey and i felt. that this matter had been clearly established as sound policy in the post office department bill.
i should add in fairness that there may be some of the routes where there is simply  egh mail to compensate for a special service at the low rate. but on the atlantic run particularly there is adequate quantity to justify the low rate and i am anxious that any doubt be cleared up .
last year when the gentleman from new jersey was handling the bill i discussed with him briefly the question of the handling of military service mail. it was my understanding at that time that a considerable amount of military service mail was being handled by the regular airlines. but that the department had indicated that it proposed to increase the handling of such mail by the military services through the air force. was consideration given to that at any point during the subcommittees hearings.
i have been very much interested in the elimination of subsidies as far as it is possible to eliminate them for a number of years. i must say that i am surprised at the gentlemans statement. because it is my understanding that the major airlines. for the most part. are off subsidy today. and if they are carrying mail for 45 cents a tonmile. it is only compensation for the carrier. the committee has given a lot of attention to the matter of subsidy. i think a great deal of improvement has been made. and i am sure a great deal more will be made under the presidential order kn as  10 of last year.
. merely for the record and because the bill is being brought up at the request of the chairman of the district of columbia committee. who is  present. i wish to say a few words in explanation. this bill is designed to break the bottleneck which occurs at washington through the congestion of the mail service at christmas time. such congestion occurred last year. and in previous years. the bill makes it possible to provide five additional tracks of standard construction in the terminal building. it would  involve any expenditure by the federal government or the district of columbia. the $500.000 involved will be paid by the washington terminal company. and if the work is to be completed by december 1 it will be necessary to begin it immediately. in order to make that possible it is necessary to amend the act authorizing the establishment of a union terminal so as to permit building over the additional area. it is for that reason that the senate is urged to act upon the bill at this time so that the work may be completed in time for the christmas mail.
 should certify his computations to the congress and that within 60 days after that date congress should elect between the two plans. when the apportionments were computed on the 1940 census it then became clear that under both plans there would be many changes. but the two plans would work out alike in all gf these changes. except that under equal proportions plan. the apportionment would leave arkansas and michigan as they were and undex the major fractions plan the apportionment would give michigan one more representative and arkansas one less representative. under those circumstances. it became of some importance to choose between the two plans. the house of representatives on february 18. 1941. i believe. s i recall the date. elected under this procedure to choose the equalproportions method. as it had a right to do. the bill then came to the senate. the senate was discussing the lendlease bill. the last day on which the senate could act on the measure within the 60day limit was march 8. 1941. on march 7 and march 8 the senate was voting all day on the lendlease bill. and the matter never did come to the floor of the senate before march 8. 1941. thereupon. by virtue.  of a consideration of its merits by the senate but by virtue of international circumstances such as they were. the 60day period expired. and action was taken. with the result that the 1910 method of major fractions again became applicable. although the house of representatives. which was most vitally affected. had elected to proceed under the equalproportions plan. consequently. when this matter comes up today. it is  a matter of gerrymandering. it is a matter of acting  with the same freedom as could have been exercised before march 8 if there had  been other matters before the senate which precluded any consideration of the bill at all by the senate. the senate should  proceed to select the plan for apportionment under the 1940 census and to determine for the future which plan shall be used. it therefore becomes necessary to examine the bill. which contains several vitally important provisions. in section 1 the first thing it does is to substitute a single standard for a double standard. it selects permanently the equalproportions method to be applied to the 1950 census and thereafter. next it adapts the procedure of section 1 to this single standard. it provides. among other things. that the clerk. after having received a determination of what the apportionment shall be. shall within 15 days. give ice to the executive of each state. stating the number of representatives to be allotted to that state. there is then a change made in the detail of the act which i need  discuss here. except to say. for the benefit of the record. that in the former act it was provided that in the absence of the clerk. this ice should be given by the officer who. under section 32 or 33 of the revised statutes. is charged with the preparation of the rolls of representativeselect. an examination of the statutes shows that that officer is an officer of the preceding congress. and therefore. in order to eliminate that difficulty. it is  provided that in the absence of the clerk it shall be done by the sergeant at arms. or in his absence. by the doorkeeper of the house of representatives of the current congress. those being the same officers who formerly would have been named as officers of the preceding congress. in subsection (c) of section 1 it is prescribed what shall take place in a state that receives a change of its apportionment before it has provided new districts to fit the new apportionment. this merely writes into the law the situation as it seems to be  settled by decisions of the courts. it clarifies and lends authority to the existing practice.  section 2: this section does  gerrymander anything. section 2 merely makes applicable . before the next session of the congress and before the next election. the rule determined on. on its merits under section 1. if we were determining section 2 first. and then were trying to conform our permanent policy. to that choice. that would be one thing. but if. as the senior senator from michigan has indicated. the permanent policy for the united states. from  on is to be. as i believe it should be. on the authorities i shall quote. the equalproportions plan. then. having made our decision upon principle there certainly is  a reason for saying that the application of the sound principle of the future to the present is a gerrymander of anything.
it would be fair to state to the senator that the pending bill as it  stands does go a bit further than that of mere election. when the house voted on february 18. 1941. they did choose the equalproportions method for the 1940 census. that is as far as they had to go under the statute. and that is as far as they did go.  that that period has gone by. and we act upon it . we would go further and propose to change the fundamental law and adopt the equalproportions method from  on. beginning in 1950. and then. we say. that inasmuch as we have determined on it from  on. we see reason why we should  apply it to the 1940 census at the present time. and that conforms to the choice made by the house on february 18. 1941.
i should be glad to have the senator bring forward those experts. because when i have read from those i am about to quote it will be recognized that they are the ones who are naturally recognized. because of the circumstances under which they make their representations. i  call to the attention of the senate. and i wish to have them clearly stated in the record. several brief statements from authorities whose qualifications all senators readily will recognize. first i call attention to the report of the * advisory committee to the director of the census in 1921. in brief. this census advisory committee states: the method of equal proportions. consistent as it is with the literal meaning of the words of the constitution. is logically superior to the method of major fractions. next i refer to the report of the national academy of sciences in 1929. prepared. i may say. at the request of speaker nicholas longworth. of the house of representatives. on this controversial question it concluded thus: the methcd of equal proportions is preferred by the committee because it satisfies the test (of proportionality) when applied either to the sizes of congressional districts or to numbers of representatives per person. and because it occupies mathematically a neutral position with respect to emphasis on larger and smaller states. (congressional record. march 2. 1929.) laurence f. schmeckebier. at page 72 of his excellent book on congressional apportionment. published in 1941. by the brookings institution. says this: the constitution contemplates equality. but as it is impossible to attain absolute mathematical equality. the apportionment must be such as to reduce inequality to a minimum. * * * both the weight of authority and the equity of apportionment indicate that the method of equal proportions is more desirable than any other method that has been devised. prof. zechariah chafee. of the harvard law school. in an article on congressional reapportionment. published in the harvard law review. volume 42. 1929. pages 10151(647. says the following: of the political factors already considered. e weighs appreciably against the method of equal proportions. it remains to state the strongest political argument in its favor. the preservation of a respect for law will. in the long run. be best obtained by the adoption of the plan which is least likely to produce a sense of unfairness in those who are forced to obey legislation. each successive reapportionment will causean increasingly critical examination of inequalities by the states which lose seats. consequently. the mathematical superiority of the method of equal proportions is also a political merit. because of its mathematical soundness. it is the method which can best stand up under this unavoidable and intense critical examination. dr. e. v. huntington. of the department of mathematics of harvard university. writing in a survey of methods of apportionment in congress. presented to the senate by the senator from massachusetts and ordered printed on october 7. 1940. stated: it was  until 1921 that a satisfactory mathematical analysis became available. this led directly to the method of equal proportions. which has since been approved by the highest scientific authorities (p. iii). in dr. huntingtons letter to the members of the committee on commerce of the senate. dated february 22. 1941. he said: if congress desires to equalize the congressional districts as far as possible among the states. the method of equal proportions will always give a better result than the method of major fractions. he illustrates this by saying that under the majorfractions method. under the 1940 census. the difference between arkansas and michigan would be 11.26 percent. and under the equalproportions method the difference would be 11.02 percent. again i quote from dr. huntington: if congress desires to equalize the number of representatives per million inhabitants as far as possible among the several states. the method of equal proportions will always give a better result. on a percentage basis. than the method of major fractions. finally. i cite dr. calvert l. dedrick.  chief "statistician of the statistical research division of the bureau of the census. who. while  attempting to advise on the question of policy. has approved equal proportions as the most scientific method. in a statement to the committee he approved. as the definition of "equal proportions." the statement contained in senate document s04. issued by the saventyslxth congress. third session. as follows: the method of equal proportions may be defined as the only method which will apportion a given number of representatives among the several states so that the ratios of population to representatives. and also the ratios of representatives to population. shall be as equal as may be among the several states. that completes the citation of authorities for the equalproportions method. and i believe they will be convincing to anyone who is seeking the mathematical soundness of the result. in concluding. and referring to section 2 of the bill. i believe that if we approve section 1 on principle. section 2 should also be approved on principle. first. because it is right for the reasons just stated. second. because it also happens to be most convenient under the present circumstances. ordinarily hard conditions make hard law. in this case hard conditions make good law. because in this case if we follow the method of equal proportions. which is the sounder method. we then leave the representation of both states which have been mentioned precisely as it is. whereas if we adopt the other method. which is  as good. under these authorities. then we disturb the existing representation. in arkansas. in particular. where there would be a reduction of one representative in congress. we would force them into an election at large. which would result in much more expense. for filing fees and the like. and create considerable hardship for all candidates for congress in that state in 1942. third. it has been passed already by the house of representatives. which is. of course. primarily concerned in this matter. fourth. it does  seek to overthrow the rule of the 1929 law. it merely seeks to apply that rule and apply it in accordance with sound principle. i believe. therefore. that the senate owes it to itself to make it clear at this time that it is simplifying the procedure. and that it is favoring the most scientific method.  only for the long future. but . . at this point. immediately following my remarks on house bill 2665. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article by calvert l. dedrick. chief statistician of statistical research of the bureau of the census. entitled "some essentials of apportionment methods." which mathematically demonstrates the application of these several principles to the cases in michigan and arkansas.
i am merely putting this in the record to show that -the 2 methods are  substantially identical. as applied to the census of 1920. the difference would affect at least 4 states. in 1930 the final result did happen to be the same for all states. and in 1940 there is a difference. as you k. for 2 states. therefore. it is  an extraordinary or unusual result that at this time the 2 methods produce differing results. it is natural that there be a difference in resuits. because there is a fundamental difference between the principles on which the computations. are based. the extraordinary thing was that under the 1930 census both methods produced completely identical apportionments on the basis of 435 representatives. also. may i ask that i be permitted to place in the record at the same time the corresponding figures for 1930 and for 1940. finally. in answer to the statement by the senator that on the 1940 priority list it makes difference until we come to the states of arkansas and michigan and that. therefore. the methods are identical until we reach 435 representatives. i contend that the priority list shows that  to be the fact. the 1940 priority lists. which i wish to put into the record from pages 217 to 225 of the same book. show that under these 2 methods. if we stopped. for example. at 433 representatives. missouri would then have the last representative under the equalproportions method. but if we stopped at the same point of 433 representatives under the majorfractions method. then new york instead of missouri would hxve the last representative. so there is a difference between the results of the 2 methods that runs back down through their respective priority lists.
i should like to call the senators attention to what is published in yesterdays record. the statemen given to our subcommittee by mr. dedrick. the statistician of the census bureau. in whch he points out that if a states population is used as the deinator. and its representatives as the numerator. as is done in arguing for the majorfractions plan. we come out with a result which favors michigan. as has just been stated by the isenator. but if. on the other hand. we reverse the same process. and use the number of a states representatives as the numerator and its population as the deinator. we come out with a result that favors arkansas. this would be using the method kn as the harmonic mean. it is to avoid this meaningless difference between which figure is to be the numerator and which the deinator that a neutral system has been developed that is termed the "equalproportions method." mr dedrick then shows in his tables as published in the record that under this method it makes difference whether we divide the representatives into the people or the people into the representatives. we have the same result. because we deal in the relative difference or percentage of difference rather than the absolute difference between the representation allowed to the respective states. it seems to me that is a rather important factor. we should  make our argument turn on which way the division is made to get the result.
that is the same as senate bill 360. which has been recommended by the senate committee on post offices and post roads. on the other hand. the bill which has been before the senate committee on civil service is senate bill 635. which the committee voted this morning to report to the senate. i should like to compare the effect of the two bills and to ask the senator whether or  they are discriminatory when contrasted with each other. under the civilservice bill. which we have been considering in our committee. we have excluded the field offices of the post office department.
. that is the point on which i want to be clear. i think there is a generally sympathetic attitude toward postal employees because of the service they render. but we must  discriminate in favor of or against them. i take it what the senator from new york is saying is that there  exists sufficient discrimination against the postal employees so that when this bill gives them an average of $656 total increase. including both their standard overtime and their $300 bonus. as compared with the civilservice employee getting $453. the senator regards that as evening up an existing discrimination against the postal employees. the senator therefore regards this bill as being in conformity with the civil service employee bill. so that when the civil service employee bill comes up for consideration next week we can say that it is in conformity with the bill  under consideration.
that principle is more important than the rate of pay itself. therefore. if the pending bill is in conformity with the civilservice bill. i think it has met that most important principle. and the passage of the pending bill will become an argument in favor of the passage of the civil service bill as we have approved it in committee.
. i am glad to respond to the request for an explanation of the $840.000 proposed to be added to the committee amendment. as the subcommittee recommended originally to the general appropriations committee. the cut was from $12.995.504 to $8.000.000. i was  a member of the subcommittee. but being a member of the general committee on appropriations and also of the committee on civil service. i made a special examination as to where that cut would fall if it were applied to that extent. in.that connection i obtained from the civil service commission an analysis of wherethe entire cut would fall it would fall upon eight items. of those eight items. i picked out three and a fraction of a fourth which seemed to me absolutely essential. i presented those four items to the full committee on appropriations. of which the distinguished acting chairman. the senator from tennessee . had called a special meeting in order that we might be sure to cover the whole subject. those four items are as follows: the first is an item of $350.000. this $350.000. if  appropriated here. would. be available for working with the departments and agencies in order to improve what they call the utilization of personnel  on the federal pay roll. after presentation of the commissions program in this field to the house committee on appropriations. representative joe starnes. of alabama. asked the following question in the house: do you  feel that thatreferring to personnel utilizationis probably the biggest problem that we have in dealing with the matter of personnel during the war periodthe proper utilization of manpower. the commission concurred in that expression by the representative from alabama apparently his views were concurred in by the entire committee. in view of the fact that the total amount requested for this item was granted by the house of representatives. the commissions program in this field is also in line with the recommendations made by the joint committee on reduction of essential federal expenditures. of which the senator from virginia is chairman. the program is an attempt properly to utilize the manpower already in civil service. if the funds available for this activity are reduced by $350.000. the effectiveness of the commissions work in this area will be seriously impaired. the appropriations committee felt that was really an attempt to bring about greater efficiency and a measure of ecoy recommended by the committee headed by the senator from virginia . we felt that to omit that item would be shortsighted ecoy. the second item is an item of $150.000. if this $150.000 is  appropriated it will  be available for classification of positions in washington. d. c.. and in the field. as a result of funds appropriated by the congress. the civil service commission has just begun to set classification standards for field positions in an effort to eliminate the chaos in the field. insofar as salaries are concerned. to which the house committee on appropriations referred in reporting the treasurypost office appropriation bill for 1945. i shall read a paragraph from the report of the committee. this paragrnph is the convincing paragraph upon which our committee acted. the house committee points out that in the field there is chaos as between the employees of different departments. the quotation from the house committee report is as follows: a number of the agencies appropriated for in this bill have presented requests for increases in their appropriations to cover the cost of the reclassification of certain positions in the field service. the committee is informed by representatives of. these services that other agencies in the government have classified similar positions in grades paying higher salaries and they find they are unable to keep their employees. who are naturally attracted by the offers of higher pay in other agencies for the same work. while the law governing reclassifications places the final authority for the making of such reclassifications for positions in the district of columbia exclusively in the civil service commission. it has dispersed this authority and responsibility with respect to reclassifications in the field service among the heads of the several departments and agencies. the natural result of such a law is a reasonable degree of uniformity in the matter of reclassifications in the departmental service. but a very wide variance in reclassifications in the field service. this condition promotes a very unhealthy competition among the departments for personnel. which is especially acute during periods of manpower shortage such as the present. it  only promotes confusion among the various field services. resulting from the constant transfer of employees from one service to aher. but it creates a constant upward trend in salary levels in the implementation of this competition among the several departments. the committee believes the appropriate legislative committee of the house should give careful study to the unsatisfactory situation in the field service resulting from the provisions oil the existing law. with a view of bringing about suitable amendment of the law to remedy this situation. if $150.000 is withdrawn from this work. it will mean that the commissions activities in connection with the classification of field positions will be cut in half. again. the appropriations committee felt that to keep the field positions on the same basis as between the different departments was a constructive measure .of ecoy. the third item is an item of $200.000. at least $209.000 would longer be available. under the proposed original cut. for the commissions workin connection with the administration of the retirement system. i think it is perfectly clear that this item should remain in the appropriation. the proposed cut would mean. for example. that on a conservative basis at least 250.000 claims for refunds of amounts deposited in the retirement account would be awaiting action at the end of the fiscal year 1945. it also would mean that there would be delays running from 6 months to a year in the handling of these claims for refunds. in addition. there would also be delays in connection with the settling of death claims and in the placing of retired federal employees on the annuity rolls. the justification for those three items seemed to be clear. beyond question. the remaining $140.000 of $840.000 is merely for the overtime allowance of 20 percent in order to keep up with the $700.000 thus restored to the bill.
. to comment on the. matter a little further. my distinguished colleague from vermont is a member of the civil service committee. together with the s2nator from tennessee . the senator from new york . and the senator from california -
 a special committee. under the chairmanship of mr. justice stanley reed. to make recommendations for civilservice improvement. that committee made a recommendation that lawyers be put under civil service. there was a division in the committee as to the mechanics for handling such examinations. one group recommended that there be a board which would have priority over the civil service commission. and aher group recommended that the procedure be through the civil service commission. the appropriations committee of the house. i believe it was. objected to acting upon an appropriation for the board of examiners until after the matter had been passed upon as a question of substantive law. a bill was thereupon introduced in the house and passed by it to authorize the creation of a board of legal examiners. when the bill reached the senate it was referred to the civil service committee of the senate. it was considered at length by that committee. there was divided opinion in the committee. and a majority of its members was against a recommendation of the bill. therefore. as the matter  stands. there is appropriation pending to provide for the creation of a board of legal examiners. and that is as it should be. on the other hand. there are funds available for continuing the work of the regular legal examining unit. it seems to me that the appropriations committee is reversing its policy when it  undertakes to pass upon the subject as a matter of law. abolish the existing procedure of examining by a legal examining unit. and prevent civilservice exaninations being held without first referring that matter to the civil service committees of the house and the senate for the purpose of letting them pass upon the merits of the legislation. therefore. i believe it would be consistent with the previous action of the appropriations committee  to act on any change proposed in the legal examining method until it had been first acted upon by the standing committees dealing with that particular subject. therefore. i believe we should vote down any such action. at least in connection with the pending bill.
i supported the board of legal examiners. but that was voted down.  what i understand has taken place is that a board of legal examiners is. as a matter of fact. acting in an advisory capacity to the civil service commission. and the civil service commission is having the benefit of that procedure. although the commission -is   under the control of the board as it would have been under the plan originally proposed. so i believe we are getting the benefit of examination by lawyers. but. if we cut off all civilservice examination. it seems to me that we then throw the whole matter open. do away with veterans preferences. and create a position which is  sound.
i move that the vote by which the amendment was agreed to be reconsidered. i should like to state the nature of the amendment. because i think a brief statement will enable the senate to realize the reason why the vote by which the amendment was agreed to should be reconsidered. the amendment is the one which involves the abolition of the civil service as it would affect positions with salaries of $4.500 or more a year. the amendment would make all such positions subject to having the salaries paid only when the persons holding such positions were appointed by the president and confirmed by and with the advice and consent of the senate. i believe the amendment should have consideration before the vote upon it is taken. therefore i move to reconsider the vote by which the amendment was agreed to.
. i should like to ask the senator from tennessee or the senator from arizona a question. as i understand. a number of the penalty mail amendments are all based upon precisely the same rule of procedure.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide a measure of coordination between the civil service retirement act and the social security act. subject to employee referendum. and for other purposes. i ask unanimous consent that a statement prepared by me. relating to the bill. may be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill designed to improve the public service. this bill is the result of much concern and several years of thought on how best to maintain high standards in both congress and in the executive branch of government. the bill has four major provisions: first. the requirement that members of congress and all employees of the executive and legislative branches of the government earning in excess of $12.500 a year and candidates for federal office file an annual report of income. including reimbursement for any expenditure. gifts in excess of $100 in amount or value. fees or hoaliums for speeches or articles. and the monetary value of subsistence. entertainment. travel. and other facilities received by an individual in kind. all dealings in securities. commodities. or real property during the year. these reports would be filed with. the comptroller general and would be open to the press and the public. second. the requirement that all communications. whether written or oral. including those from congress and the executive branch. with respect to any case pending before a federal agency be made a part of the public record of such case. third. a requirement that committees of the senate and the house file annually itemized expense accounts for all travel. subsistence. or accommodations used by members of such committees or staff members. the reports shall be published in the congressional record. fourth. the establishment of a commission on legislative standards to conduct a study of problems of conflicts of interest and of relations with executive agencies which confront members of congress. with a view to devising and recommending measures and procedures to deal with such problems. this would include such problems as that -of disqualification of particular votes. and the often difficult determination of the line between adequate representation of constituent interest and attempted influence. the key section of this bill is the first one. the requirement for disclosure of gifts and fees received by members of congress or federal employees will serve as a brake on both those who would influence and those who would be influenced. when an individual realizes a gift will be a matter of public record. he is likely to give additional consideration to the propriety of the gift. the principle involved is similar to that employed in the federal lobbying act and the proposed federal elections act. the mere existence of such a report will make it easier for the legislator and the policymaker to reject such gifts. this bill would apply to all persons in the upper grades who are likely .to be in a position to make or influence policy in the executive branch. it would also apply to persons. at equivalent levels in the services and in the legislative branch. in fairness to incumbent members of congress. it would also include candidates for congress. it is possible that the scope of this bill is too large. i feel it is better to err on the side of inclusion. rather than permit any important class of officials to. be exempted. if experience indicates the need for amendments. they can be made. respect for privacy is deeply ingrained in americans. i value it highly myself. but. reluctantly. i have concluded that in this instance an overriding public interest makes necessary the disclosure of information for which my bill would provide. action is necessary. and i am convinced that it would be far more effective to turn the spotlight of publicity on all gifts and favors than to attempt to draw a line between those which are proper and improper. my bill would require public officials to exercise their own judgment in acceptance of favors and then would give the public the chance to decide whether the judgment exercised was sound. i realize that legislative proposals such as this one and similar proposals and proposals having similar objectives by senators douglas. neuberger. ives. javits. clark. and others. are  rushed to early enactment. yet their introduction does serve a useful purpose. inevitably they focus attention upon the difficult problems which exist in this area and help to arouse public interest with eventual beneficial effects. the bill itself is. of course. far from perfect. it will  plug all the gaps. but it could be a start. disclosure can help to dispel the cynical view of politics and public service that has made "politician" almost a dirty word among far too many people. you and i k that most public servants do  take graft and do  respond to improper pressure. rather. most of them are trying conscientiously to serve the public interest as best they can whether they be in the executive or the legislative branch. through legislation such as this we can help to correct the distorted image of public officials that  exists in many quarters and thereby encourage the ablest and best in our communities to continue to seek public office in both appointive and elective capacities. i ask unanimous consent to insert the text of the bill in the record at this point.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the board of chosen freeholders of the county of morris. n.j.. concerning the post office departments cancellation of mail handling contracts with the delaware. lackawanna & western railroad.
. the circumstances surrounding the recent dismissal of mr. w. w. law. a letter carrier in savannah. ga.. give rise to grave questions concerning the conduct of the post office department in this case. i ask unanimous consent to have inserted at this point in the record my letter of september 15 and its enclosure to the postmaster general. the postmaster generals reply to me of september 19. the letter of september 22 to the postmaster general from mr. clarence mitchell. director of the washington bureau of the naacp. and my letter of september 23 to the postmaster general.
. a member of congress. a lifelong career employee or an employee engaged only on a temporary basis to expedite the movement of mail during the christmas rush. the committee does  subscribe to  could it support any code of principles that applied only to some and  to others. it believes there is room in a great democracy such as ours for any set of double standards. the time has come to put this principle into practice.
told the rules committee it had  done its job in the bobby baker investigation. and the job would  be done until all senators had been asked whether they had any financial dealings with the man who was able to accumulate a fortune while serving as secretary of the democratic senate majority. beside insisting again on a thorough exploration of the baker scandal. mr. case reiterated proposals that would lessen future opportunities for aher baker. he wants members of congress and their employees to submit annual reports on their finances. and he wants a public record kept of all. members of congress included. who approach any federal regulatory agency in regard to matters before it. what mr. case said yesterday he had said before. but this time there was a difference.. this time he spoke with the kledge that the rules committees own counsel and staff agreed with him and. in fact. recommend much the same remedies that he and his associates have offered. only a few members of congress have had the courage to join mr. case in his demand that congress impose on itself the same ethical standards it imposes on the executive branch. but as his mail shows. he is getting widespread public support. contemplating the favorable auguries. complacent democrats in the senate may feel the baker case can become a significant issue in the ember election. but. there are more important things than winning elections. among them the possession of public confidence and an hoable name. if it condones the rules committees coverup. the senate risks the loss of both. [from the washington (d.c.) post. may 28. 1964]
chairman. special committee to investigate campaign expenditures. u.s. house o/ representatives. washington. d.c. dear sir: reference is made to my letter of december 19. 1964. to richard l. ottinger. mailed to him at his residence at 235 bear ridge road. pleasantvllle. n.y.. via certified mail december 19. 1964. receipt number 026326. general post office. new york. n.y.. and copies of said letter which have also been sent to you. this procedure to contest his election is in accord with section 201. title 2. united states code. the federal corrupt practices act. this is to advise you that i will proceed under sections 204. 205. 206. 207. 210. 214. 215. 217. 218. 219. and such other sections of the above named act as are appropriate and applicable to subpena ottiner and all witnesses having kledge of violations of federal and new york state statutes by ottinger and others. further. subpenas will demand the production of all records of expenditures. checks. drafts. pledges. etc.. insofar as gifts are concerned. as well as the production of such other exhibits as are necessary to determine the nature. manner. and purpose of all expenditures relating to the ottinger campaign in accord with section 219 of the above named act. application for these subpenas is being made to a judge of the u.s. court who resides in the 25th congressional district in accord with section 206 of the federal corrupt practices act. in the meantime. while this contest is proceeding. i call upon the congress to  seat
. since the session opened. i have received considerable mail concerning section 14(b) of the tafthartley act. while many have written with obvious conviction and sincerity. it has also been apparent that some letters are sent as part of an organized campaign against repeal of this section. i am sure my experience is  unique. in this connection. i call to the attention of the senate an editorial published recently in the machinist. the official weekly newspaper of the international association of machinists. i ask that this editorial be printed in full at this point in the record.
it was the desire of our esteemed colleague from illis [mr. dirkseni to make it as good as possible. and that still is his desire. i k. both because he wants to do justice and also because he wants to get as many votes as possible. but the proposal provides that an action by the people of a stateand this means a plain majority of those entitled to vote . who may  be all the people of voting age--shall bind that state for 10 years or until the next decennial census occurs. there is still some weakness. technically. in the joint resolution of the senator from illis. especially in that the provision for reexamination by the people at the end of each decennial census. and subsequently. is  so effective as the provision for the first look at it by the people. that. however. can be corrected. it is my understanding on that pointi do  wish to discuss it in great detail. except to raise the questionthat the provision of the joint resolution for a subsequent review after each census is satisfied by presenting to the people two proposals. one of them must be based on population. the other on something else. it could be based on anything. this is  the same as the initial approval de o. and the language being different. i think the substance would be different. but the point is that i do  believe even a majority of the people of a stateand i suggest this to the senator from california for commenthave the right to take away from any citizen his right to a voice in the legislature. or to take away the right for a period of 10 years. our disagreement on the first issue is so fundamental that constitutional amendment could change it. our disagreement on the second is  so fundamental.
s recommendations on this matter were apparently  even considered within the committee. leading one member. and a member of the majority party at that. to describe the committees vote as "the most outrageous thing the committee has done." that strong legislation is needed is universally ackledged. the last amendment to the corrupt practices act came during the 82d congress in 1951. campaign spending has increased astroically since then. the spending in the national election of 1964 was reported at $34.8 million according to the citizens research foundation in princeton. this was more than twice the $17.2 million in 1956only 8 years beforeand representing a 39 percent increase from the $25 million spent in 1960. the consensus of the experts who testified before the joint committee on the organization of the congress. a committee of which i have the ho of being a member. ran strongly in the direction of the need for fuller disclosure and stricter review of financial reporting. faulty reporting frequently occurs  only because of the volume of contributions leading to mistakes. but also because of deliberate omissions. irresponsible bookkeeping and the shortcircuiting of funds result in part from forekledge that campaign reports are unaudited except in cases of special investigation. only outside inquiry can bring clarification or elaboration of reports that contain fragmentary. uneven. inconsistent. and sometimes deceptive information. this issue is too important and necessary for cavalier treatment in any year. but especially in an election year.
this is the point i wish to comment on. if the senator has a little time remaining. to develop an approach of reality as opposed to romanticism. and getting solutions. as opposed to dividing the country and the party. the reason i welcome the senators speech. and i wish he were going to be around for the next couple of weeks so that i could continue the dialog with him. is that his is a most important voice and it has been during all of the period of his public service in probing to get at the facts of the situation. whatever the matter at issue may be. this is my interest. i think the senator has made e of a very useful point in stating that the main question is  how we got into this thing. we are there and our choices are limited. of courseand i do  think this can be said too often. but it can be misunderstoodwe support our forces and the military as long as we have them there. they receive our full support whatever ones views may be about the wisdom or wisdom of the fighting. therefore. that we must support our troops is argument for one position or aher about the war. i think it is well to lay that aside. as the senator has done by implication. if  directly. the point i wish to make is this. i. too. agree that the question is  whether we should have gotten in or . it is  whether president johnson is the big villain here or whether it is some predecessor in that regard. i think he had fewer options when he took office than perhaps any of his predecessors with respect to vietnam. and i have said so. . the question is what we are doing there and should be doing. what is possible and what is  possible to accomplish in vietnam. and are we going about it in the soundest way. because the senator is so much in touch with all developments in the political world. especially. he is very conscious and kledgeable about the ripon society. the ripon society is a group of people. i think largely republican. but more independent that anything else. from the intellectual community in new england. with membership spreading over the country. the ripon society has recently issued a research paper in connection with vietnam. i would like. if i may. and if the senator will indulge me. to ask that that paper and its accompanying analysis be printed in the record at the conclusion of the discussion today. because it will be helpful in the consideration of this matter.
this is designed to do only what human beings can do. there are liabilities that certain people havethe color of their hair. the absence of hairas they may regard it. this is  the kind of thing covered by the amendment. the kind of thing we are talking about is the kind of thing that would  possibly gives rise to conflict of interest between a mans duties in the senate and his own interests.
it has proved difficult to get. for example. counsel to work for the government. without providing for exemption from existing legislation which prohibits practicing in certain areas for some time after public service ends.
. i am glad the senator from washington brought out the point. i think he emphasizes the special nature of our position. the reason why disclosure is probably the only effective way to get at most of the possible areas of conflict of interest is that we are either asked to do something or asked  to do something. there is phase of activity or possible kind of interest we are  dealing with every day. therefore. i think the best that can be done is to disclose what our situations are. and then leave it to our constituencies to decide whether there has been a conflict. i think that is behind the committees proposal and. to an extent. our amendment.
 pro tempore. and expressed our appreciation and affection to him for his help to us. i repeat that  on the floor. there are other colleagues who are leaving. i guess that senior in service on our side of the aisle is senator hickenlooper. senator hickenlooper and i have  always agreed on matters of policy or public consideration. but i think and k that we have had a strong feeling of mutual respect and. i think. affection. too. for each other. we shall miss him greatly. nearer my own term of service. is the senator from california. we have been so very close that it is difficult to speak of his leaving without becoming overemotional. if i were  satisfied that his remaining years of active service will be spent in public service and in proximity to all of us here. i should be even more unhappy than i am. the senator from california has been a fine senator. a fine public servant. and a wonderful friend. all of us join in wishing well to him and to our other colleagues who leave. i assure the senate that so much wise advise and just plain decency has come from the senator from california during the many years that i have served with him. that it has served  only as an example. but also as a force to keep us on the right track. to all these we express our affectionate farewells. with the confidence that we are going to keep in touch. and a feeling that if that were  so. we should be desolate. indeed.
maybe i can bridge whatever difference there may seem to be among the three of us by saying the whole thing depends on many factors: the general importance and nature of the jobthose factors relating to the job applying at all times. in all places. but even more important. and this is the point i wish to emphasize. are the time and circumstances in which we are asked to consider the appointment for that particular job. specifically the department of state. if it were at a time when the world was peaceful and we. for instance. were secure behind our oceans. particularly protected by the british navy. and it did  matter very much what our relations were with the rest of the world. then. it would be  as important as  when we have a position of world leadership thrust upon us. i think it is much more important  that we have a firstclass man as postmaster general. than when the department was running smoothly. in order to get mail to my state rapidly instead of taking 3 or 4 days. it depends on the nature of the circumstances obtaining at the time. the importance at the time. and the significance at the time of the appointment.
. or members of congress. in shaping the contours of the corrupt practices act. congress specifically sought to develop a balance to afford all groups a fair opportunity to take part in our political process. this act was  hastily drawn  lightly considered. indeed. in 1967 the balance struck by the act was reaffirmed by the senate by rejecting a proposal which would have prohibited group activity in the political area. the consideration and debate which preceded enactment of the corrupt practices act demonstrated the complex policy questions which are involved in this area. yet. amendment 303 is offered without benefit of thorough study and in the absence of committee hearings of its provisions. the impact on voter registration drives is obvious.  so obvious are its consequences on other activities of civic. charitable. and other profit organizations which might be construed as opposition to a political party. i shall vote against the amendment.
i shall  get into the substantive question which has been so well covered by the senator from new york and underscored by the senator from kentucky. but i do want to tell the distinguished senator from new york. to his face. that he has performed in eloquent fashion this aftern and has rendered a very great public service to the senate and the country.
. last december i introduced legislation to permit the early retirement of federal employees during major reductions in force by a federal department or agency. since time did  permit the 91st congress to act on the measure prior to adjournment. i am reintroducing the bill today. senator montoya is joining in as a cosponsor. last year more than 120.000 civilian employees of the department of defense were involuntarily released from service as the result of reductions authorized by congress and personnel reductions ordered by the administration. the civil service commission estimates that reductions will continue to occur in federal agencies through at least fiscal year 1972. with the major impact being felt in defense and space programs. the continuing nature of these reductions makes the need for congressional action urgent. legislation should be passed before the next round of layoffs in order to ease the impact of job loss upon individuals who are separated and on the operations of the agency undergoing the reduction. some employees are young egh to relocate and find new employment. for many others. the hardship of finding aher job after years of federal service can be severe. the latter situation becomes particularly acute when these employees face the prospect of seeking employment in todays depressed labor market. reductions in force also take their toll on agency management. the "bumping effect." that is. the displacement of employees with lower retention rights by those with higher retention rights. frequently results in the permanent loss to federal service of capable younger employees. these include those whose jobs are abolished as well as those who see opportunity for advancement because middle- and upperlevel positions are retained by persons with longevity rights. in view of the need to ease as much as possible the personnel dislocation caused by changing federal priorities. our bill would permit federal employees who are at least age 50 and have 20 years service. or who have 25 years service regardless of age. to retire early during major reductions in force. even though their specific jobs are  abolished by the cutback. the bill requires the civil service commission to determine when a reduction in force is major and to fix the time within which employees could exercise the option to retire. while the civil service commission permitted early retirements at some defense installations last year. this was done administratively on a limited basis. our bill would write the authority into the civil service retirement act and would make it applicable governmentwide. i would point out. too. that the bill in way diminishes the responsibility of the civil service commission or the agency to insure that an early optional retirement is the result of the employees voluntary action. in other words. it is  to be used by an agency to get rid of certain employees. also. the bill does  change the agencys responsibility to help employees involuntarily separated to try to find other federal employment if they wish to continue to work. the prospect of reductions in force during a period of high unemployment makes the need for action on this bill imperative. accordingly. i intend to request the chairman of the senate post office and civil service committee to hold hearings as soon as possible. the bill has been endorsed by the civil service commission. the department of defense. and the white house. in light of the gravity of the current unemployment situation. i hope the senate and house will give prompt attention to the measure. i ask unanimous consent that the text of our bill be printed at this point in the record. i also ask that there be printed in the record two articles from the washington post pointing out the need for early retirement legislation.
. once again i have joined in sponsoring legislation to give the consumer a voice that  only can be heardbut be effective in the federal government. this legislation will establish an independent. regulatory agencyto be called the agency for consumer advocacyto represent the consumer point of view before federal agencies and the courts. in addition. the agency for consumer advocacy is charged with receiving and redirecting consumer complaints. developing and circulating information for consumers. and. in general. protecting and promoting the interest of consumers. when congress considered similar legislation in previous years. my mail from the business community was heavy with inquiries as to why a consumer agency is necessary. considering the number of federal regulatory agencies which  exist. i think all of us k that the regulatory agencies tendmore often than to reflect the point of view of the very businesses and industries which they regulate. the interest of the consumer generally gets short shrift. if it is considered at all. and it does seem to me that if we kept the wellbeing of the citizen more firmly in mind. then often our government and its agencies would come up with imaginative and creative solutionsrather than mindboggling rules and regulations which is the stuff we call "red tape." the bill currently before the 94th congress empowers the agency for consumer advocacy to represent the interest of the consumer in any federal agency proceeding. i do think we must start listening more intently to the consumers. and it seems to me that this legislation establishes a procedure whereby our federal agenciesindeed our whole governmentcan hear that important point of view in an orderly and responsive fashion.
. it is never a pleasant task to say "goodbye" to an old friend. so my remarks on the retirement of john pastore will be brief. john pastore and i have been colleagues here for more than 20 years. in all that time. there has never been any doubt in my mind where john pasto re stood on the issues. especially when he took to the senate floor to tell us all. as he so frequently put it. "what pastore thinks about all this." few men have devoted as much of their lives to public service as the distinguished senior senator from rhode island. i hope his future years are meaningful and productive ones. he can certainly be content in the kledge that he has done his best to serve the people of rhode island and the nation.
 has assured us that there is reason why they should  be used to carry the mail. i also feel that we have a responsibility to consider the effect that failure to pass this bill would have on the loyal postal employees who have carried on their work day in and day out under difficult conditions of  king when they would longer have a job because of the trend toward substituting private carriers for governmentowned vehicles. these men have  been earning egh to live decently during this period of high prices. and indeed the legislation which has long been pending to give them a pay increase still has  been acted upon. despite the overwhelming evidence in favor of its passage. certainly. it would be ungrateful. as well as unwise. for this congress. in light of the facts. to fail to take action which will make it possible for the men involved to keep and to feel secure in their jobs.
. i have supported the pay raise for the hardworking postal workers whose living standards are so seriously jeopardized by the high cost of living. and i am very gratified that the house today will perform at least some part of this act of justice. i advocated a $1.000peryear pay raise before the house committee on civil service and post office and believe that this was needed. the house today is making a start in recognizing that because a man works for his government does  mean that he is  worthy of his hire. on the contrary the government should be the first to recognize the need for adjusting wage scales to costs of living because individual initiative of the employee in asking for a raise is so much more difficult with the government. i hope that the next session congress will again examine this question with a view toward seeing that its action is adequate to the need
. i would like to express my views on the bill at the same time that i refer to the gentlemans amendment. i do  want to be taken for a moment to indicate that the gentleman from tennessee is as solicitous as i am about opportunities for veterans. i am sure he is and that that is the purpose of his amendment. and my comment is only designed toward the purpose which i feel he would want to serve himself. and that is to get this bill passed. it is really an honest difference. i fear. if the bill is loaded down with an openend proposition. it might lose egh votes possibly even to defeat it. and we both do  want that. on the bill itself i would like to point out two factors which are very important. first. it is clear  that this is the same sort of bill which was passed for veterans of world war i. there we had a twoyear war. and hence we had a twoyear cutoff date. the cutoff date. as i understand it was 1920. here. with a fouryear war. we have a longer cutoff date. and the cutoff date is july 1. 1950. second. the juxtaposition of the two figures indicates why the effort is being made to do this for postal employees. and why other government employees are  at this time included. the two figures are $163.000.000 overall. as the cost of this bill. and $70.000.009 overall which would be the cost for all other veterans employed by the government if included. what that indicates is that the salary schedules for postal employees are so designed that postal employees need more relief in this matter than other government employees. because it costs more money to bring them to parity. i point out that the $70.000.000 applies to about twice as many veterans as the $163.000.000 applies to in the post office department. about 94.000 to about 180.000. thus emphasizing again the point which i make.
will the gentleman point out where. aside from the earmarking of a billion dollars for the purpose. his amendment differs from section 112 (b) of the law which is  in effect. i may say that provides that the administrator shall authorize procurement of any such surplus agricultural commodity only in the united states.
does the gentleman agree that as long as people are going to pay more money. like doubling the penny post card rate. they ought to get some of the service that was taken away from them in april. 1951. does the gentleman have any assurance from the postmaster general.
is it a fact that this bill is a package bill. in other words. it all hangs together. and that the committee adopted it in that fashion. so that if you take out one thing and leave in others. you are  carrying out the committee intent as to what the committee thought was fair to the postal workers.
is it  a fact that many members have spoken about the large number of letters they received from the postal workers. and is it  a fact that the postal workers have written and written and written and worked and worked and worked because they feel the ecoic pinch they are in.
i would like to point out. in connection with what the gentleman from indiana said about borrowings in his community. that the same situation exists in new york city. the postal employees are borrowing in emous numbers from the local agencies in my community and other communities. because they can make ends meet.
is it  a fact that the july 1 date was just a compromise. that date should stand. in view of the fact that this congress.  the postal workers. was at fault because we just have  had time to get at this bill sooner.
i would like to compliment the gentlewoman on presenting this new idea. but i join with my colleague from pennsylvania in asking whether the gentlewo.man has consulted with the organization of postal employees and the varicus organizations affected. after all. they are the ones who would k whether this would be the proper approach. mrs. st. george. i can only tell my colleague that i have consulted with individuals in various organizations. i have  consulted with the organizations as a whole. the individuals with whom i have talked have been favorably inclined toward this amendment.
. i am today requesting in a letter to the hoable tom murray. chairman of the house committee on post office and civil service. prompt hearings on my billhouse resolution 58and other measures to bring about rescission of the order of the postmaster general curtailing postal services. my bill also calls for an investigation of this curtailment and calls on the appropriate standing legislative committees of this body to examine into the necessity for and propriety of this curtailment. the american people.  obliged to pay increased rates for mail service totaling an estimated $250.000 annually. ought to be receiving in return the services which they had received prior to the postmaster generals april 18. 1950. order. instead we are faced with deficit for 1952 estimated by the postmaster general to be $768.008.261. an increase of some $217.000.000 from the 1951 year. and idea of restoring services. the new york worldtelegram and sun. in an editorial climaxing a series of five articleswhich are inserted in the appendixsurveying the poor condition of our postal service. puts some blame on the congress for tying the hands of the postmaster general and also forcing the hiring of temporary employees. these articles point out two major defects and make one important comparison. they raise the whole question of political influence in the personnel system of the post office. a political influence which is admitted. this is a serious blight on the whole system and very serious to the career employees. it harms the efficiency of the system. it often causes the career employees to be saddled by the public with blame for conditions for which they are certainly  responsible. secondly. the articles point up inefficient methods. archaic. oldfashionedwhich do  belong today. finally. they show that mail service in london and paris which are comparable cities to new york is so much better than our own that it must be hard reading for every american. and these are the countries which have deep ecoic troubles as compared with our own relative prosperity. the hoover commission reports show how the post office could be run efficiently. what has happened about recommendations of the hoover commission is summarized in excerpts from the address of  of the board. curtis publishing co.. at the second national reorganization conference of the citizens committee for the hoover report held in washington on february 18. which is also set forth in the appendix. the congress has within its power the restoration of services to the previous state of dependability. further increases in rates. especially in other than firstclass mail and post cards may need to be considered. efficiency in operation and personnel policies need to be dealt with. members can really complain unless the congress exercises this power to do all that congress can do to change conditions and then sees that the executive department does the rest. it is well that the joint committee of the house and senate. authorized in the last session to conduct a thorough study and investigation in respect to the general operations of the postal service. will shortly begin to function. in the meantime. american families and american businesses should  be made to suffer because of curtailed mail deliveries. post office office hours and similar inconvenfences. postal services should be restored . progress.  retrogression. should be the keye of our postal service.
i think that is certainly my experience from my district where the complaints run 100 to 1 just exactly the other way. i would like to call the gentlemans attention to a series of articles in the worldtelegram and sun of new york. which will be put in the congressional record. they do  write long. elaborate stories like that unless there is a real public interest involved. and there is certainly a public interest in this question. and people feel generally that the postal service is extremely inadequate and that it is very largely attributable to the cut. and is based upon the fact that they are  getting their moneys worth for postal service. and that we in congress have  done all that we should about ecoy and efficiency in the postoffice service. and the necessary increases in rates. where they still need to be increased. and in putting it into effect. the hoover commission recommendations. . i want to compliment the gentleman for bringing that to the attention of the house as the ranking miity member of his committee. i think he is rendering a great service to the people of his country.
. my purpose is to comment on the proposal of the gentlewoman from new york that an investigation about the post office department is essential. in connection with that proposal we ought to understand just exactly what the congress can do about this widespread complaint about postal service and excessive loss in the operation of the post office. in addition restrictions. which the people feel have been put on the postal services by the order of the postmaster general cutting service. are proving to be irksome. we always want to examine what we ought to do before we complain about others. i think we here in the congress have to resolve a number of points so that we may have done all we can do to put the postoffice house in order as a necessary preliminary to an investigation. we should: first. put into effect the hoover commission recommendations respecting the post office.
i would like to state to the committee of the whole that the gentlemans interest in these problems of the aged has  only been one interest in which i join with him among a number of things. but that he has utilized so effectively his position and his prestige on this subcommittee to bring up in this bill a provision of the greatest merit as far as the aged of america are concerned. it has long been a great difficulty that the civil service itself. representing the conscience of the people of the country. should have barred perfectly effective employees because of their age. i think the aged people of the country should be deeply indebted to the gentleman for having utilized his position in this legislative body in such an effective way.
. this is an effort to modernize this immigration law at the same time we are trying to codify it. and to modernize it insofar as we can by making the standard for determining the national origin quota the latest decennial census which is available for that purpose. 1940. instead of utilizing the census of 1920. which is the present law. and which this bill continues. the reason i do  use 1950 is because upon inquiry from the committee. i was very graciously informed that it would take about a year for the analysis of statistics to catch up with what would be required should we change the provision in this bill. but. certainly that does  apply to the decennial census preceding it. which is the reason for this amendment is this. the national origins quota system has been very much assailed on the ground that it is discrirhinatory against the present complexion of the united states based on national origins. and that whereas in 1920 we had an extremely heavy quota for anglo saxon peoples. if we took a later census. the census of 1940 or even. indeed. the census in 1950. if we could. it would begin to correct that complexion to some extent and give a greater quota to countries of southern and eastern europe that are. suffering very seriously under the whole quota system.
is it  a fact that though we all have the deepest regard for the gentleman from minnesota and. the thing he is trying to do. that is. to get europe unified. we must recognize that this amendment will do at least two things which are very harmful and therefore require us to turn down the amendment: first. it will be an effort to drive the british into the european defense community. i think. as the gentleman from virginia properly said. that is a momentous historic decision. and we certainly should  make it by just tacking this amendment onto this bill. that is obviously what is intended. because otherwise there just are  egh funds in this bill to provide for the british armament. second. is it  a fact that all procurement for 75 percent of the amount which is going to be spent after june 30. 1953. out of these funds will have to be held up for months. until the european defense community is fully ratified and approved and actually takes effect.
. one of the big jobs of the new administration  placed in the capable hands of postmaster general arthur summerfield is the restoration of our postal services to a state of efficiency. the new york post office is the biggest in the country and what will happen there under the new administration is likely to be the standard by which the whole postal system will be judged. i take the liberty of suggesting that in the appointment of the postmaster in new york city it be recognized as a trouble shooting job of the first rank requiring great administrative ability as well as experience and prestige. the personnel management problem alone is emous with 34.000 postal workers employed in the district comprising manhattan. the bronx. and pelham and a heavy proportion of the first class mail in the country handled in this district alone. the loyal and dedicated postal workers have been in the forefront of those seeking better postal services and have been the most hurt by the postal services curtailment directive. ever since the postal curtailment order of april. 1950. cutting home deliveries to one a day and reducing- other services. the people of new york city have been suffering serious efficiencies in mail services. i hope very much the opportunity to start on the road back to proper postal service will  be utilized.
i would like to get away from the country a minute and get back to the city and to this twoaday mail delivery proposition. it is a fact that what the gentleman has said. what the postmaster general and his assistants have said. and what the postal carriers union has said. will undoubtedly deter members from offering this amendment which was contemplated to put money in the bill in order to make twoaday mail delivery in the cities. therefore. i think in all fairness it ought to be clearly understood that ody is waiving any rights. all we are doing is to give the postmaster general an opportunity to work it out himself. and that opportunity we think he is entitled to because of the short time he has been in office. but if we do  think he has worked it out for the benefit of the city people. e of us have given up the right to seek more money for that purpose.
 of the subcommittee a question about this bureau of customs. and then would like to address myself to this twoaday mail question. first on this subject of customs: can the gentleman assure us. because i have been asked questions by some of the customs people in new york. that it is  the intention by the cut of approximately $1.500.000 in this item to reduce essential services with respect to customs inspections. customs receipts. and narcotics inspections. and so forth. but that the committee feels that the job that is being done can be done with full effectiveness. and that if the committee is shown any good reason why it is  being done with full effectiveness. the committee is perfectly prepared to look at that reason sympathetically.
on this twoaday mail delivery. . i could  help but hear my friend. the gentleman from virginia. compare the cities with the country and tell us that all was good in richmond. well. all is  good in new york about postal deliveries and the people do  like the present system. new york has 8 million people. and it pays far more than its proportion populationwise of the revenues which go into the federal treasury. this is something which many of us here in the congress. from time to time. forget. also. something which some are inclined to overlook. is the contribution of the proportion of 8 million to the americans who serve in the armed forces of the united states. new york is  alone a business and port center. but also a great educational. cultural. and research center of the united states. this is a pride to us all. and we should recognize it. so i think it is only fair to say there is great dissatisfaction with this oneaday mail delivery in new york. i see my friends from boston. detroit. pittsburgh. chicago. atlanta. san francisco. and all other big cities about to take the floor. and i right hasten to add that i feel the same way about the contribution to our country of the other big cities. there is a tendency on the floor sometimes to put the big cities aside and to forget their emous contribution to the country. the dissatisfaction about this oneaday mail residential delivery is in one respect: that there are many business concerns in residential areas. those business concerns are suffering seriously because they get only oneaday mail delivery. there are many business concerns in my particular district. which is a residential district. those are all small businesses. business concerns in residential areas are all small businesses.
certainly. we have one point already conceded. and that is that where there are business concerns mixed in residential areas. they should have improvement in mail service. second. in the residential areas in the city the people are in a very difficult position with respect to appointments for jobs. ifications of various kinds. and the difficulties city people have found are the uncertainty of when they are going to get this one mail delivery. many people have missed important things in the way of jobs because their one delivery a day did  come at 8. 9. or 10 oclock in the morning but it came late in the aftern. those are some of the things the postmaster general should look into. . in this question of money. the gentleman from virginia said $80 million will be added to the cost to improve this residential delivery service. and it would come out of the taxpayers. i have before me the record of hearings of the committee. and i find that the only class of mail that is making any money is firstclass mail. that is making $52 million a year. which is almost egh to cover any deficit that might be created in giving the residential sections who get firstclass mail the service which they have been getting for years and to which they are entitled. let us see what is losing money. secondclass mailnewspapers and periodicals. thirdclass and fourthclass mail. and they are losing a great deal of money. just about the amount of this deficit. according to these figures. they are losing about $690 million. it is about a $700 million deficit. therefore. what the city people. who are complaining about this onedelivery service. are suffering from. and what the postoffice employees. who complain they are  getting paid eghand they are is  to be repaired at the taxpayers expense.
it is  the taxpayers they are complaining about. they are complaining about the second-. third-. and fourthclass mail free ride at their expense. at the expense of the residential deliveries. and at the expense of the post office employees. that is the nub of this discussion. the gentleman from louisiana [mr. passmani put his finger on the question. when we get this rate schedule straightened out as it should be. so that second-. third-. and fourthclass mail bears the same part of the burden as the firstclass mail. which is paying more than its share. then we will find these problems easy of correction. and it would  come out of the taxpayers pocket. and. indeed. it need  come out of the taxpayers pocket.
all i can say to the gentleman is that if it is argued from these figures as a fact that second-. third-. and fourthclass mail is  paying its way it is as much to be argued from the same figures as a fact that firstclass mail is more than paying its way.
my friend. hon. harold riegelman. the new acting postmaster of new york. will remedy it if anyone can. he is a splendid and able man with a great record of achievement. but i think we are never going to get a real improvement in the deficit situation until we realistically face the fact that these very low rates on second-. third-. and fourthclass mail have got to be eliminated.
i wish to compliment my colleague from new york on bringing to the attention of the house in such a detailed and studious way this very serious matter regarding urgently needed increases in the salaries of postal workers. he and i k these fine men. we represent middleclass areas and many postal workers. and we are able to see at first hand just what pressure is being put upon themthe need for outside jobs. wives working. and borrowed money given to make ends meet. the postal rate structure is in the hands of congress. we can make it what we want it to be. but it is reason for  trying to do justice to the people who operate the post office at our behest. there is other way of doing justice to the postal employees except through us. i am delighted to see my colleague from new york taking up the cudgels in this way.
i. too. was one of those who put in a resolution for twoaday delivery. i am getting mail.   exactly directed at two deliveries. but complaining about the postoffice service. i think some progress is being made in the flexibility of the local post offices in adjusting local conditions. and advance the hope that the post office department will continue to show that flexibility and increase it in order to meet local conditions where commercial firms are mixed in with residential people. and where other steps can be taken to expedite mail delivery.
. i have been deeply concerned. and i think other members should be deeply concerned. about the fact that while the country is under grave preoccupation with internal security. communist infiltration. subversion. aggression. and other similar activities. and our people feel very deeply anticommunist. a group of ultrarightists is seeking to exploit this feeling by sending a very large amount of hate propaganda through the mails which is antireligious. anticatholic. antiprotestant. and antijewish. i am today introducing a resolution of inquiry to ascertain from the postmaster general the extent of the hate propaganda. antireligious. anticatholic. antiprotestant. and antijewish. which is going through the mails.  only from domestic sources but from outside the country as well. i have already introduced a resolution to have the house committee on post office and civil service investigate the situation. my resolution today specifically names the following 10 publications as examples upon which detailed information is requested: first. common sense. allegedly published twice monthly at union. n. j. second. pamphlet entitled "the criminals" attributed to editor einar aberg. rviken. sweden. allegedly published in 1950. third. a single sheet entitled "communism" by the same editor as in item 2 carrying pictures. bearing the date fourth. a single sheet headed "stop invasion." allegedly issued by the committee to save the mccarran act. tulsa. okla.. or los angeles. calif. fifth. a periodical publication williams intelligence summary. allegedly published at santa ana. calif. sixth. a single sheet headed "open letter to congress." allegedly published by west virginia. anticommunist league. huntington. w. va. seventh. the cross and the flag. allegedly published monthly at los angeles. calif. eighth. a single sheet headed "the kiss of death." allegedly issued by the citizens protective association. st. louis. mo. ninth. a periodical publication called the "western voice." allegedly published in inglewood. calif. tenth. the american nationalist. allegedly published at inglewood. calif. the deep concern of the country with internal security and communist infiltration. subversion. and aggression. should  be permitted to divert us so as to afford a cover for hate propaganda distributed or transmitted through the mails. to prevent such exploitation of the deeply anticommunist feelings of the people by ultrarightists in an equally vital question of internal security.
. there will appear in the record the reply of the postmaster general to my resolution of inquiry. house resolution 632. introduced july 14. 1954. i sought by the resolution to ascertain from the postmaster general the extent of the hate propagandaantireligious. anticatholic. antiprotestant. and antisemiticwhich was going through the mails  only from domestic sources but from outside the country as well. i named in house resolution 632. 10 specific publications upon which i sought information. the attached letter from tre postmaster general seeks in the main to answer those questions. it is clear from the letter and enclosures that there is at present remedy available at law to prevent the mailing of publications. both within and outside the country. in any of the classes of mailfirst. second. or third classof hate propaganda. consisting of false statements. false reports. and statements urging the violation of constitutional guaranties. intended to breed illwill against racial or religious groups as such. although indeed this type of propaganda comes within the spirit of the material which is prohibited by law from being carried through the mails and which is referred to in the letter of the postmaster general. the efforts being made by hate mongers and bigots seeking to promote antireligious. antiprotestant. anticatholic. and antisemitic sentiments by materials sent through the mails. under the fraudulent guise of participation in the anticommunist struggle requires the real concern of the congress. i believe that legislation to deal with this subject. certainly insofar as the mails are being used. is logical and necessary. the federal government should be capable of seeing that its facilities are  abused and exploited for purposes so contrary to free institutions and the deep convictions of the overwhelming majority of the people of our country. the case of beauharnais against illis. decided by the united states supreme court on april 28. 1952. sustained the constitutionality of legislation making unlawful the libel of a racial or religious group.
i voted for this package bill to increase the postal rates. i have an opportunity to vote for this bill today and i shall vote for it because justice withheld from the postoffice employees is justice denied. a 7percent increase with a minimum of $240 a year and a maximum of $480 a year for postal employees will  bear an adequate relationship either to increases in the cost of living or to competitive compensation in private employment for postal employees. it is a compromise on the low side but this compromise has such emous support that it should be accepted. for postal workers want the broadest backing in the congress for a pay increase. they k that it is the justice of the congress that they depend upon both for today and for tomorrow. giving them something of the pay increase they need will help to avoid as mtich as possible the need for wives of postal employees to work and for unusual borrowings by postal employees in order to meet living costs. that is our job in our responsibility to them. our responsibility to increase postoffice incomewhich i have supportedcan be discharged at their expense. also. the postal workers have traditionally carried the ball for the classified federal service. we must recognize this and follow through with appropriate consideration for the other federal classified employees as well.
 should  penalize the postal workers for the congress judgment on this matter. for. it is only fair to state that as the peoples elected representatives the congress may choose to express its representative capacity by holding postal rates where they are and causing the postal deficit to be paid out of taxes. i hope very much that this distinction will be very clear to the executive department and that this bill so long needed will be signed into law.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the executive committee of the yonkers. n. y.. republican city committee. favoring the enactment of legislation to provide increased compensation for postal employees. .
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by rochester branch  210 of the national association of letter carriers. rochester. n. y.. favoring the enactment of legislation to increase the salaries of postal employees.
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the yonkers republican organization. inc.. of new york. n. y.. relating to increased compensation for postal employees.
. on behalf of myself. and my colleague. the senior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the social security act to permit the state of new york to provide for extension of social security to new york firemen and policemen. i have received a tremendous amount of mail from policemen in new york and their organizations on this subject. at its last session the new york state legislature specifically authorized their inclusion under social security. and set up the necessary mechanics to authorize it subj ect to passage of necessary federal legislation. which this bill seeks to accomplish. organized firemen at first opposed this measure. but recently their organization. the new york association of firefighters. with heavy support from the larger cities. endorsed it.
. i wish to associate myself with the views expressed by the senator from minnesota and the senator from oregon.  only is this measure long overdue in terms of the views of those who are beneficiaries. but my mail on this subject. which has been very heavy. evidences a rankling sense of injustice. i do  believe the people realize the detail involved in the legislative process. they have felt that this was a matter which deserved earnest. early. and complete attention. i agree that this bill is  all we ought to do. but it is a good step in the right direction. and i shall support it. i appreciate very much the fact that the chairman of the committee on finance and the leadership have brought the bill up at this time.
. as the end of the session approaches. i rise to express the hope that we will have the opportunity before we adjourn to act on postalpay legislation. i take this opportunity. while the distinguished junior senator from oregon [mr. neubergeri. who sat on a subcommittee to deal with postal rates. is on the floor. to express my view that both questions are separate and distinguishable. postal pay needs urgently to be dealt with because the whole postal system is gradually turning toward a twojob idea for the individual postal employee. who must himself have two jobs. or have his wife or some other member of his family work in addition to himself. in order for the family to maintain a decent standard of living. i ask unanimous consent that i may have printed in the record as a part of my remarks. a few of the many letters i have received on this very important subject. expressing the state of fact to which i have just referred.
. the handling of one responsibilitythe postal workers pay problemshould  be contingent on the handling of the other. both are the responsibility of congress. and both are important. human urgency is involved in the case of the pay for the postal workers. equity is involved in the case of the postal rates. i welcome the statement on this subject which was made earlier today by my colleague. the senator from rhode island. as one member of the senate. i face the fact of the urgency of the need to give attention to this matter before congress adjourns.
. i speak in this debate only out of a sense of responsibility to the workers of the largest post office in the country. new york city has 35.000 postal workers. i testified before the committee which considered the proposed legislation. i have also spoken on the floor previously on the subject. i shall  repeat those arguments. it is time those workers received the increase which would be provided by the senate bill. i speak as i do out of a deep sense of responsibility. i respect the sincerity. the integrity. and the kledge of those who are opposed to the measure. i favor it for this reason. whether or  it becomes lawand one of us ks whether or  it willwe are nevertheless taking the only opportunity open to us to show our support for a demand which is a reasonable one. in terms of the fact that we are the only ones who can do justice to the postal workers. they have one else to look to for relief. secondly. i heard it said by the senator from arizona. "how is the business doing in which the people participate." the business is doing very well. the post office activity is essentially the business of the united states. and the business of the united states is doing very well. indeed. and it should  shortchange its employees. my third basic and fundamental point is this. i am for an increase in postal rates. i think that is an expression of responsibility which is almost the bounden duty of all of us who are for a pay increase. i am for an increase in postal rates. firstclass mail rates have  been increased for 25 years. we should face our responsibility in that regard. i am more than willing to face it  if i have the opportunity to do so. i will do so at the earliest possible moment it is offered to me.
. on behalf of myself and my colleague. the senior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to backstop state laws dealing with improper solicitation of contributions for charitable organizations. many states. ably new york. have made great strides ahead in protecting their citizens against victimization from unscrupulous charity solicitors. however. the states themselves are impotent to guard against charity "boilerrooms" operating by mail who move from state to state with their operators. philanthropy has been ranked the nations fourth largest industry. following manufacturing. agriculture. and wholesale and retail trade. americans contribute between four and five billion dollars annually for charitable purposes. yet. in the state of new york alone. i found as attorney general that more than $25 million a year is estimated to be siphoned off by outandout charity rackets. on this basis. charity rackets may well take as much as $250 million a year from the public. it is very much in our national interest to encourage charitable contributions. and our federal tax laws rightly favor it as one of the fine expressions of a free society. the way to encourage contributions is to give the utmost protection against fraud and sharp practices in solicitations. the bill provides that once a person or organization has been convicted within the past 5 years and subsequent to passage of the legislation of fraudulent charitable solicitation under any one of the existing laws in 26 states and the district of columbia. the postmaster general may stamp "fraudulent" on mail addressed to the violator from any point within the united states and return it to the sender. and may also stop payment of postal money orders to the convicted charity racketeer. the congress late last year enacted charity legislation to apply to the district of columbia. the district of columbia charitable solicitation actpublic law 8587. this bill is a further step in the protection of the individual citizen and in federal recognition of the fraud in charity solicitations.
the provisions of the bill leave to the postmaster general the establishment of regulations as to the administration of the 5cent rate. if provision for it remains in the bill. within areas such as new york city. where there are a number of post offices.  merely one. hence. i have obtained from the postmaster general a letter which i should like to read into the record.
in new york city we have  one general post office only. but one post office for two of our counties. and aher post office for aher county. and yet aher post office for aher county. so a major problem is presented. the postmaster general has written to me. at my request. as follows:
. i shall take only a minute or two to speak on the amendment. i have already discussed it with the chairman of the committee and with its ranking miity member. the bill provides that the rate on thirdclass mail shall be 2 cents prior to july 1959. and 212 cents thereafter. that is a rather sweeping increase. protests have been received from business persons such as the proprietors of laundries. drugstores. upholsterers. florists. and other retailers and smallbusiness men who take advantage of this type of mail to send out blotters and other types of advertising material. the staff of the committee has analyzed the situation. and has arrived at an appropriate solution. namely. the forgiveness of the onehalf cent increase which the bill calls for. beginning on july 1. 1959. if those affected will take certain steps which will be of assistance in that situation. therefore. i have incorporated the staff finding in technical language. the effect of the amendment is that if such an individual. small merchant will do certain work for his post office. he will be able to effect some savings. and thus will be able to get some benefit of a saving. in connection with his use of the thirdclass mail. that is the purpose of the amendment.
. let me offer a word of explanation. in the colloquy relating to this question it was made very clear that the amendment was premised upon the effort. first. to benefit the smallbusiness man. and second. to represent a commensurate saving to the post office department. as compared with the diminution in revenue. the postal authorities. who have since studied the amendment very carefully. say that the addition of the words which i have offered. confining the operation of the amendment to local delivery. which. on first class. will require a 4cent stamp. will do exactly what we have in mind. for that reason i desired to put the amendment in exactly the form we have in mind.
i thank the senator. bear in mind. in the first place. that in this chamber we are always working against deadlines. the bill was to have been finished day before yesterday. then yesterday. and . i assume. today. i had intended to make four speeches this week. this has been a banner -week for me. i have had to cancel all 4. one after an abortive airplane effort to make it. so a senator always feels. when he arrives in the morning. that unless he does something right away. it will  be done. therefore. under some pressure. i undertook to do something which my tremendous constituent mailand that. i think. of many other senatorsdictated should deserve the attention of the senate. what can we do.  for the big mailer.  everybody in the world is a big mailer.  everybody in the world is a montgomery ward or a sears roebuck. there happen to be 4.300.000 businesses in the united states. of which roughly 4 million are small businesses. what can we do for the grocer. the upholsterer. the laundry man. and all the other merchants in a community. such as mine in new york. who can advertise in the new york times. the herald tribune. the mirror. or the news. without going broke. but who can depend only on direct mail. to some persons. this may be junk mail. however. to those merchants it is their very life blood. they can remain in business except by resorting to advertising in that way. so i asked myself. how can we take care of the situation for those people consistent with the traditions of the post office ratemaking structure. that brings me to the reason for the specific freeze of the rate for that kind of mail at 2 cents. instead of letting it go up to 21/ cents. what we are doing in passing upon this bill is to say that the rate on local mail shall be 4 cents and outoftown mail shall be 5 cents. heretofore the rate on that mail has been 3 cents. the thirdclass rate for the small people whom i am describing. of whom there are millions throughout the nation. was onehalf the firstclass rate. is it  logical. therefore. to say to these desirable beneficiaries of our equitable interest. "you  have a 4cent local rate. so we will keep the relationship and make the rate for you 2 cents instead of 212 cents. that is  out of line." so i made an effort. so far as one could who is  a member of the committee. who is  aware of all the ins and outs of postal rate making. by consulting with the committee staff. that was apparently inadequate. as seemed to be indicated when the matter was considered here yesterday. the senator from oregon suggested to me that i ought to talk to the post office authorities. i did so. they suggested some additional languagethree additional wordswhich would make it crystal clear that the proposal was intended to apply to local mail. so by unanimous consent i inserted the provision in the amendment.
i thank the senator from south carolina for his contribution to the discussion. what he has said bears out exactly what i have in mind. this morning. when the question arose again. i went to the experts of the post office department. and i asked. "can you cut this down to the barest limit in which you possibly can write it in order to make crystal clear what we are trying to do." hence this modification. i told the senator from oregon i would never wish any senator to feel unhappy about an amendment he had consented to. and that i would be glad to have the action on my original amendment reconsidered. so as to have the matter considered de o. that brings me to the amendment which is  at the desk and upon which the senate will be asked to act. as i understand. it  makes the matter crystal clear. it provides that when mail by a mailer is sorted. faced. and tied into packages and is labeled with postal delivery zones. and delivered to a particular post office. if that post office makes the distribution of the mail which is so delivered to it. then the rate shall be frozen at 2 cents instead of 21/2 cents. let me illustrate that. so that it will be clear. a merchant sorts and faces his mail. that is. it is all faced the same way. then he ties it into bundles and puts tags on it for such and such a delivery zone for the particular package. he takes it to the post office. if the same post office distributes the mail. it goes at the 2cent rate instead of at the 2 /2cent rate. so my proposal endeavors to take care of the small peopleand we all have them as constituents. and we have all heard from them. what is the objection to this. the objection on the part of the post office department is that they want the maximum revenue. the bill provides 21/2 cents as the maximum. if the post office can get agreement to a 2/2cent rate in the senate. this provision will  be in conference. that will be the end of it. the post office will be home free. i do  think we can lose too much sleep over their position. certainly they want 21/2 cents. they want everything they can get to help reduce the deficit. but we are concerned with individual equities. the second argument against my proposal is that montgomery ward. sears roebuck. firestone tire & rubber co.i do  use these names invidiouslycan give a bunch of circulars to a small merchant who can mail them at the 2cent rate. i should like to k what is wrong with that. how can the small merchants remain in business if they are  given some opportunity to fight the battle competitively for themselves. finally. it is said that the big mailer might go to the trouble of trucking mail to a particular post office and letting the post office distribute it. if. ecoically. it is cheaper for the mailer to do the trucking than to have the post office department do it. what is wrong with that. in short. one can guarantee. when he is trying to do something fundamentally equitable. against every contingency in life. that. as i see it. is what the opposition to the amendment is based on. but. again. i point out that the traditional equity of this position is that the mailer of thirdclass matter has always paid half the rate of firstclass mail. this is what i am trying to do for one small part of the total amount of thirdclass mail involved.
my amendment is designed to cut the rate back in the case of a particular kind of mailer who needs such help. in other words. the bill would  eliminate what the senator from connecticut calls junk mail. the only question is what shall be paid for handling it. and even the maximum proposed will  be so prohibitive. in terms of those who mail very large quantities. that they would cut down materially their volume of mail. i do  think we are dealing with the situation in such a way as to put a stop to such mail.
. i shall  detain the senate long. my only purpose in offering the amendment is to draw attention to a particular situation which has been called to the ice of all of us by the smallbusiness men. who will. if the amendment is defeated. be placed in a position contrary to rather than for their interest with relation to the firstclass mail rate. the firstclass mail rate of 5 cents is to be provided for only 3 years. yet the smallbusiness man is being asked to accept a 50 percent proportion of that on a permanent basis and  for only 3 years. we shall have a 4cent rate for local mail. but we are  giving the smallbusiness man the same relationship to local mail which he has traditionally had. senators may talk about junk mail. but i should like to see them discuss of such mail in terms of "junk" mail with their small business constituents. i do  think their constituents would take very kindly to that description. since many of them are men to whom it represents the staff of life. i am very proud to be a member of this body. it is a determined .body. it is thorough. i think that is all to the good. i hope in perhaps my own small way i have made my contribution toward making it a thorough body today. there is only one point of fact which i should like to emphasize in connection with the amendment i have proposed. the amendment does  range all the way. but it applies to the particular post office at which the mailer has his principal address. and to the mail distributed only through that post office. it seems to me that confines the application very closely. even confining it more closely than the 4cent firstclass mail. we shall have a 4cent firstclass mail rate for all 5 boroughs of new york city. but if the amendment i have proposed is adopted there will be a 2cent rate on the thirdclass mail in only the boroughs of manhattan and the bronx. which happen to have 1 post office. that rate is confined even beyond the 4cent firstclass rate. i deeply feel the amendment deserves the support of senators. the question can then be taken to conference and considered and discussed in connection with what was done by the house of representatives. i repeat. unless the senate adopts the amendment. the rate will be fixed at 21/2 cents. because the house bill provides 21/2 cents. and without the amendment that would be the end of it. this is the last chance senators will have to take this matter to conference. that is exactly the reason why the chairman of the committee and the ranking miity member yesterday accepted this proposal. they knew what they were doing. they were  confused. they felt they ought to take the proposal to conference in order to determine what finally ought to be done with respect to the house bill. if we do  adopt the amendment there will be latitude whatever. and the bill will be absolutely tied down to 21/2 cents. senators are  called upon to vote "yea" or "nay" on whether the rate shall be fixed at 21/2 cents.
there are in my state the largest number of postal workers of any state in the united states. i think the end result of legislation is what counts. those workers are entitled to justice. we have been trying to get it for them. this seems to me to be the constructive and effective way to do it. i am in favor of this proposed legislation. because it is the effective way to obtain for those workers a raise in pay. instead of just talking about it.
in connection with the senators reference to new post offices and new equipment. i wish to call attention to the plan for a $100 million development for the new york city post office. the largest in the country. it employs 35.000 people. and it carries 11 percent of the national mail and 6 percent of the world volume of mail. it is literally the jugular vein of the entire post office system. we look forward with the greatest interest. and with the greatest desire to cooperate. to the great modernization effort. we shall give to it everything we have locally. we are very much pleased that the postmaster general has signalized the importance of the new york city post office to the entire postal system. by making it. as it were. the anchor or the keystone of his modernization program. i thought a reference to that situation might fit in with what the distinguished senator from virginia has said.
i understand perfectly what the senator has stated with reference to the situation. i merely wish to point out that when we undertake to solve very little problems we may bedevil the big problems and issues. and corrupt a fundamentally big national purpose. if i do hing else today. i sound a e of warning in that respect. that is all.
my senior colleague from new york and i have a common interest with the senator from massachusetts. based upon communication with the public service commission of my state. we are very deeply disquieted by the provision  appearing in section 4 of the bill which. in giving authority to the interstate commerce commission to act in commuter line matters. gives. in my opinion. a power to the commission so circumscribed as to require the commission to permit discontinuance of practically any commuter line as to which there is an application for discontinuance. i shall ask the senator a specific question on that subject. if my belief is correct. the language will put the regulatory body into a position of lacking flexibility to deal with a situation about which one can be precipitate. whether we are considering new york or boston. we can make an improvement in the situation which exists. and we can make progress. but certainly we can suddenly shut down the service. my colleague from ohio is an excellent lawyer. and i am glad. because we are discussing a question of legislative language. the language to which i should like to direct my question is shown on page 6. line 16. i should like to read beginning with line 11. to cover the whole sentence and convey the full meaning. if. after hearing in such investigation. whether concluded before or after such discontinuance or change has become effective. the commission finds that the operation or service of such train. ferry. station. depot or other facility is required by public convenience and necessity and that such operation or service will  result in a net loss therefrom to the carrier or carriers and will  otherwise unduly burden interstate or foreign commerce. the commission may by order require the continuance or restoration of operationand so forth. what troubles me is this question: is the commission absolutely bound to allow discontinuance of service the minute there is a showing of net loss upon a particular operation. i might say to my colleague that if that be so. then practically all passenger service in the congested theastern area of the united states. certainly. could be shut down under the provision. because almost all such service is operated at a net loss.
i thank the senator from georgia. . i ask unanimous consent to have incorporated in the record a telegram from the counsel of the public service commission of the state of new york. specially commenting on the amendment which i proposed. and which did  carry. setting forth the situation just as i described it to the senate.
my own mail is  necessarily that strong upon this subject. i do  mean that individual letters are  strong. however. in my state the problems of the berlin crisis. unemployment. and other problems overshadow this particular subject. i feel that this is a subject so much within our own control. and representing to such a great extent. as the senator from ohio has well said. an earnest of our own good faith toward the country. that. whether my mail were large or small. i would feel very much as does the senator from ohio.
essentially. the bill provides for a policy declaration. it does  attempt to straitjacket the procurement agencies. therefore. i think the substance of the conclusion of the senator from california is correct. i am sure the senator will read the bill with great care.
. i should like at this time to say a word about some bills which i have introduced. which relate to the responsibility of retired officers of the armed services. i have served on the committee on rules and administration for 2 years. at the feet of our very distinguished colleague. the senator from missouri . i hope. after my colleague from new york has concluded his address. to which i look forward with great interest. to speak upon the pending legislation for a little while this aftern. in the meantime. i wish to advert to certain bills which i have introduced in cooperation with the senator from i111s . with respect to the responsibility of retired officers of the military services. it is very gratifying to me that the subcommittee for special investigations of the house armed services committee. before which i testified last july 8. in support of a bill which the senator from illis and i had introduced. senate bill 2228. the retired military officers defense procurement activities act of 1959. has issued a report and proposed legislation which in many respects follows closely the recommendations of senate bill 2228. the 2year "cooling off" period after retirement. during which officers may  participate in "selling" activities to the department of defense. the extension of the definition of "selling" to include negotiations. and the permanent exclusion of officers from selling activities directly related to their particular assignments in the services. should offer valuable guidelines to former personnel in their choice of future business connections. it also becomes our duty to do affirmative acts which will offer a better opportunity for retired officers. as well as to do negative things which will prevent any abuse of what we consider to be a public trust. accordingly. i hope that. at the same time we consider the restrictive legislation which i have discussed. we shall also consider one other bill which i introduced on september 12. 1959. which would offer retired officers working for the federal government in positions classified as having a shortage of personnel. according to the civil service commission. the opportunity to receive an increased share of their retirement pay. withstanding the salaries which they receive in civil service jobs. in this way we can provide retired officers with a career beneficial both to them and their country. with reference to senate bill 2703. which i introduced on september 12. 1959. the bill would also require the civil service commission to make a report within 3 years. to help congress with further legislation along this line. it is important to bring to the ice of retired military officers that real efforts should be made to keep their fine and hoable status in our country. and that in the complexity inherent in the public concern over their trying to sell defense items to the defense department. or to negotiate with their former colleagues. we should also make every effort to utilize their services. which are often so precious. in jobs where we do have a shortage of personnel. and to encourage them to render that kind of service by minimizing the cost to them in terms of their retirement compensation. i hope very much that congress will. therefore. consider both sides of this coin. i end by saying what i have maintained time and time again. namely. that i hope that our retired officers will realize our gratitude to them for their services. and that all we are trying to do is to make very clear the ground rules. and that we k from their patriotic service. which they have always rendered to their country. they would be the first to desire the ground rules to be clear. and that. as we may restrict their activities. we also indicate the lines along which they can be extended. which will be beneficial both to the country and to them.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to extend reduced second- and thirdclass postage rates for profit organizations to civic organizations. this proposed legislation is being introduced in the other body by representative lester holtzman. of queens. n.y.. because i believe civic organizations have a good case for reduced postage rates. the situation of the civic organizations is analogous to a number among the eight other types of organization which presently enjoy the reduced rate: religious. educational. scientific. philanthropic. agricultural. labor. veterans. and fraternal. the public service function of civic organizations is principally in the field of information distributed to citizens and concerning issues affecting their welfare. the distribution of this kind of information is one of the elements through which americans are kept abreast of events and which form a vital part of the democratic process of government.
. on behalf of myself. and my colleague the junior senator from new york . i introduce. for appropriate referenceand i shall ask unanimous consent in a moment for permission to have other senators cosponsor the billthe "executive conflict of interest act of 1960." a comprehensive ethics bill applying to the 2.266.000 civilian employees of the federal government. regular and temporary. and to the 2.632.000 members of the armed forces. representative john lindsay. republican. of new york. will introduce the bill in the house of representatives. the proposed legislation was drafted by the special committee on the federal conflictofinterest laws of the association of the bar of the city of new york and is being introduced tuesday to coincide with the public release by the association of the results of its 2year study. at this point in my remarks. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a list of the distinguished members of the committee. headed by roswell b. perkins. of new york. and including our colleague in the other body. representative lindsay.
i ice that the comptroller general of the united states favors the bill. but i also ice that in the letter of the civil service commission. which is found in the report at page 6. the statement is made: the commission urges that s. 91. amended to incorporate the new language. be enacted into law.
can the miity leader tell us the answer to a question which i shall  submit. it is charged that if the amendment of the miity leader is added to the bill. it will result in killing the bill. it is said that the house will  accept the amendment. and that the result will be to destroy the bill. on the other hand. a number of senators. including myself. are perfectly willing to vote for increased postal rates. in order to meet our responsibilities. can the senator from illis tell usand the majority leader is also in the chamber. and i also direct this question to himwhether. if we defeat this amendment at this time. we shall have an opportunity to vote on the question of increasing the postal rates.
i should like to ask the majority leader that question. will we have an opportunityif this amendment is defeated at this timeto vote at this session of the congress on the question of increasing the postal rates.
. i am gratified that this problem is being resolved. we have a very large population of both civil service employees and retired employees in new york state. many of them have been interested in the subject. and we have had a deal deal of correspondence on it. the senators initiative in trying to resolve the problem will be very widely appreciated. and i thank the senator.
. i. too. would like to extend my congratulations and best wishes for a very happy birthday to lyndon johnson. whom i did  k very well in the house. but whom i discovered as an extraordinary and gifted personage in the senate. indeed. i think it is fair to say that even at my young age i feel the same way the senator from pennsylvania does. looking down the vale of life from 56 to 52. even at this age. lyndon is already a legend in this countrya parliamentary cyclone. one ks the truth of this legend better than we who have served here and have seen the extraordinary ability and the extraordinary decisiveness and clarity of mind which he displays in his parliamentary leadership. indeed. i am moved perhaps a little differently from the way in which my friend. the senator from pennsylvania . is moved to express the hope and expectation that he will be here next year. right where he is. i k that he takes that statement in good part and the good spirit in which it is meant. speaking entirely as a friend. we glory in the successes and preferments of our friends. and the mere fact that one is a inee for one of the two highest offices within the gift of our people is almost sufficient recompense for a full life in public service for ourselves and families. lyndon. i must share with you one reminiscence. i shall never forget when senator johnson met my wife. on that occasion he uttered what to me will always be an historic sentence. to be remembered in my whole family. he said "javits. the trouble with us is that we are overmarried." i think tribute on his birthday would be happier than to couple him with lady bird as an inseparable team. in the spirit in which he uttered those words to me. that is exactly the way i feel about my wife. marian. lyndon. a very happy birthday.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. five bills to amend the social security act and the civil service retirement act. one of the bills would lift the limitation of the amount of outside income a person may earn while receiving old age and survivors insurance benefits. at present. under the social security act. women over 62 and men over 65 do  receive full benefits if they earn more than $1.500 annually until they reach 72. when the limitation longer applies. in view of todays high living costs. the present limitation is wholly unrealistic. and imposes a severe hardship on thousands of our senior citizens who have paidinfull contributions. and. either by choice or by necessity. work full time or part time. the other four billsand the first three of them are cosponsored by my colleague. senator keating. are as follows: a bill to raise from 18 to 21 years the maximum age for children receiving survivors benefits if they continue to attend school. a parallel bill for survivors under the civil service and postal retirement systems. a bill to permit the payment of survivors benefits to foster children who have  been legally adopted. but have been cared for by a person who assumed full parental responsibility. a bill to permit civil service retirees to work up to half time for the federal government without losing their annuity benefits. these bills propose essential reforms in the social security law. in order to make the law more humane in its application. and the bills will also enable us to profit from the experience we have had in the administration of the law. i shall press for early action on these measures. the bills. introduced by mr. javits. were received. read twice by their titles. and referred. as indicated: by mr. javits:
. on monday. march 13. 1961. the subcommittee on national policy machinery. of which i am a member. issued a staff report entitled "the private citizen and the national service." this report. which grew out of hearings held last year by the subcommittee. points out the serious need for legislative action to revise the outdated conflicts of interest statutes  on the books. these hearings heard from a number of experts in the field. including roswell perkins. former assistant secretary of health. education. and welfare. who was chairman of a sppcial committee of the association of the bar of the city of new york which studied this problem. and prof. bayless manning of yale university. who had served as staff consultant to the association of the bar study. that project resulted in specific legislative proposals. which i have introduced in the senate together with my colleague from new york . and which are  pending before the senate committee on the judiciary as s. 603. this bill should be given prompt consideration. the subcommittees staff report also concerns itself with the effect of the present dual compensation statutes. which prevent the government from availing itself of the services of retired military officers who may be experts in areas in which our country seriously requires their continued service. i have also introduced a bill. s. 1103. which would amend these statutes. in order to make possible such employment. by establishing a reasonable relationship between the amount of retired pay the officer may receive and the salary schedule for the civil service position concerned. i believe that such legislation should also be promptly considered. particularly in the light of our desire to limit the employment by defense contractors of retired military officers where such employment results in conflicts of interest of a different typethose between the interests of the contractor and of the service with which the officer retains a number of close connections even in retired status. i am hopeful that these bills may receive early consideration by the committees on the judiciary and on armed services. and that the strong support for such legislation contained in the national policy machinery subcommittee report will be carefully considered by those committees.
. senate bill 1178. entitled "the armed services competitive procurement act of 1961." which my colleague from new york and i have introduced. has been referred to the committee on armed services. if the committee gives the bill a hearing. it will encompass the very thing the senator from maryland also desires to have encompassed. namely. a careful consideration of. and inquiry into. the procurement practices and how they work out.
. against the background of the emerging nations of africa. there can be seen the tremendous benefits which could accrue to the free world through an effective and adequate longterm foreignaid program. these new nations need the means to establish decent living standards. educate their people. build up a reliable civil service system and develop a strong viable ecoy. their problems are many and complex. multiracial and tribal considerations are among the obstacles that must be overcome on the way to a unified society. but with proper help. this new continental giant can become the new frontier of the free world. where progress can be made the democratic way. nigeria is one of the show places of what can be done by the africans under enlightened auspices and also an indication of what still needs to be done. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article by david e. lilienthal. entitled "why nigeria is different." which appeared in the new york times magazine june 11. and the editorial headed. "debate on foreign aid." which appeared in the new york times.
madam president. i ask unanimous consent that there may be made a part of my remarks. letters bearing on the amendment. one of which is a response to my inquiry on the subject. which relates to the restoration of the official register of the u.s. publication. from the chairman of the appropriations committee. the senator from arizona . and a letter from the u.s. civil service commission in response to my inquiry commenting upon this question.
. i was pleased to e an editorial in the washington post and times herald of july 1. 1961. urging approval of proposed legislation which i have introduced. and which i have also proposed as an amendment to the independent offices appropriation bill. to restore the civil service commissions authority to publish the official register of the united states. this vital document. which has been published since 1802. was abolished through a legislative rider to last years appropriation for the civil service commission. i fully agree with the editorial that there is even more need  for such a publication. so that citizens may k who is making the decisions in government which affect every one of them. and how much these officials are being paid. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial may be printed in the body of the record at this point.
i also wish to identify myself with the views which have been expressed by the senator from kansas. i favor the bill about which he has spoken so eloquently. i wish to state my support of the longevity pay bill  before us. longevity pay is an equitable and timetested way of giving incentive to. and reward for. experience. it is also the counterpart of an employees pride in dedicated service. e of us doubts. i am sure. that the competent and interested employee with years of training and experience behind him. is more valuable and can do a better job than can the competent and interested employee who is relatively new. indeed. one of the principal ingredients of competence is experience. time and again we have heard. in congressional committees. testimony that one of the main reasons for inefficiency. waste. and duplication in the government is the emous turer. from long experience with thousands of postal employees. i k that it takes time to train a new worker in the intricacies and technical demands of our postal system. i also k the pride these employees take in their work and in their department. and their concern over the unusual high turer which the postal service has been experiencing. the federal government can lag behind private industry in providing to its working force reasonable and equitable incentives and rewards for competence. indeed. the federal government. whenever possible. should show the way. i feel that by approving the longevity accruals provided in this bill. we shall be acting within the framework of fiscal responsibility. for there are tangible benefitsin terms of efficiency. personnel control. experience. and technical khowto be gained by giving such rewards. i compliment the senator for his fine statement on the bill.
subsequently said: . in connection with the debate on the peace corps measure. the senator from minnesota and i addressed a letter to the department of the treasury with respect to employees volunteering for the peace corps continuing to draw compensation from the companies with which they are connected. assuming there is conflict of interest under the law. or as to the propriety of such salaries being considered as business expenses. i am very glad to state that we have received a letter from mr. stanley s. surrey on behalf of the treasury department stating that such expenses would be considered appropriate business expenses. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the assistant secretary of the treasury surrey may be printed at this point in the record.
i see the distinguished senator from south carolina is on his feet. which makes this a very auspicious moment. i shall take only a moment to express my support of my colleagues amendment. and also to express my pleasure because of the initiative he has shown in bringing about a resolution to this longstanding and apparently very trying problem. which will be very helpful to postal employees and to other civil service employees. i thank my colleague.
. second. i think the spending of $26 billion for procurement of hard goods in defense is shown. by this situation and by many others throughout the country. to have such an emous ecoic impact in the communities involved that it requires a review by the congress in order to articulate a policy which will work more equitably than it seems to be doing at present. so i call renewed attention to my bill for enactment of legislation. which has been supported by the whole delegation from new york in the other body. as well as by the members from the state of new york in this body. which seeks greater competition in procurement contracts. including negotiated contracts. and also consideration of the ecoic impact in particular areas. analogous in terms to the consideration we give small business with respect to government contracts. in order that we may deal with catastrophic situations which may be created by the withdrawal of defense contracts in particular areas. of which this is a most striking example.
. i introduce. for reference to the post office and civil service committee. a bill to amend the civil service retirement act so as to increase. in the case of the children attending school. from 18 to 21. the maximum age for receiving survivors annuities under the act. the bill is a substitute for s. 1337. which i introduced last session. and which was first introduced in february 1960. as the result of a constituents inquiry. the purpose of the bill is to permit benefits to be continued between the ages of 18 and 21 when the recipient pursues regularly a fulltime course of study. i am introducing the substitute bill in order to incorporate certain technical changes which the u.s. civil service commission recommended in its report supporting the objective of the measure. the senator from pennsylvania . the chairman of the retirement subcommittee. to which s. 1337 was referred. has called for hearings on this measure along with various others on may 10. 1962. and it is my expectation that the substitute bill will be taken up in place of s. 1337 at that time. 1 thank the chairman for his cooperation in this matter.
mr. presid 12. 1962. i took e of rem representative james b. u dr. ralph j. bunche. the tary on special political 4 united nations. at that ti own kledge of dr. bune to his loyalty and dedicatio try and to the united natio since i was unable at the with the specific allegation bunche to comment on the record would be complete. dr. bunche has replied and has informed me that the allegations were merely old charges which have been thoroughly examined and found unsubstantiated by a competent boardthe international organizations employees loyalty board of the u.s. civil service commission. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from dr. bunches letter be printed in the record at this point. and i hope it puts a period to this unfortunate incident relating to a dedicated and patriotic american.
i think there is question about it. any statute the congress can pass which relates to an election for federal office can relate to an election for state office. because the basis upon which it is essentially positioned is the 15th amendment. which deals with state action as well as federal action. i think there is question about it. perhaps for practical reasons the effort was made to restrict the mansfielddirksen amendment to federal elections. but i do  believe there is any constitutional validity in the distinction.
. i join in commending dr. kelsey for service beyond the call of duty. it is always a pleasure for me to encourage our civil servants. and to make certain that their contributions are recognized. i have introduced a bill for the making of civilian awards. which has application to the same general idea that we are discussing today. however. i do  wish to be understood as joining with the senator from tennessee and the senator from michigan in their view with respect to the necessity for legislation. it may  be necessary to pass such legislation. it may or may  be the thing to do. but i do fiot wish to be considered as endorsing legislation. indeed. the kelsey case may show that the present system is working pretty well and that legislation may  be needed. be that as it may. i would be less than true to my duty if i did  join the senator from tennessee in calling attention to the fine public service of this outstanding public servant. in lauding and applauding that service and in urging that it be appropriately recognized. i feel in good conscience that i can do so without necessarily subscribing to the views which the senator from tennessee has stated with respect to pending legislation of which he is a distinguished sponsor.
. i wish to affirm. on the first day of the debate. my general support of the bill  before the senate. it is my deep conviction that we must pay for what we get. i believe the postal workers and the classified workers are entitled to a pay increase. i think the committee. though  realizing everything it expected to achieve. has reported a reasonably good bill. i am with the committee on the bill. and also i think we must pay for it. so it was necessary. with the same clear sightedness and courage. if we wish people to look to us for justice. to carry the burden of a postal rate increase. i shall vote for that. too. there may be amendments. like that of the senator from pennsylvania. with respect to civil liberties and questions of freedom of speech. that i shall support. but fundamentally. i shall be with the committee on the bill. because i think every once in a while it is necessary to stand up and be counted. one likes to vote for a postal rate increase. but we all like to vote for pay increases. therefore. in this case. considering the budgetary situation. the postal rate increase. and the pay increase had to be combined by the committee. the chairman did  relish that any more than did any of us. i think that having done so. and having faced his responsibility courageously. he is entitled to our support. the postal workers and the classified workers will understand that it may be a true test of friendship when it is necessary to pay for what is being done for them
. before the final vote is taken on the bill. i should like to make some comment upon the action of the senate in regard to the increases in postage rates. i deprecate tying postal rates to postal pay and have disapproved of this practice. but as it has been done by the committee with the clear indication that without it there would be postal pay raise this year. realism requires its support. for the right of the postal workers to a fair raise is to me very clear and the issue is to actually achieve one by the means which are required to achieve it. like many members of congress. i have received a great volume of mail in protest against the rate increases provided for in the house version of the bill. and which has  been beneficially adjusted in the senate version. the problem of raising sufficient revenues to cover a major part of the cost of our postal system is a longstanding one and one which the committee in reporting this bill is frank to admit is  entirely solved by the bill. but the bill does seek to reduce materially the deficit in the operation of the postal system. and recognizes it is most important that in doing so the congress  stifle certain public interest uses of the mails for which rightfully we as a people and as taxpayers should pay. i believe that the committee has attempted to satisfy this need in dealing with second- and thirdclass mail provisions. which in the house bill would have very materially reduced the ecoic viability of many worthwhile publications. the committee eliminated the heavy surcharge which the house had placed on secondclass mail. which includes magazines and newspapers. and also reduced somewhat the very large house increase in thirdclass rates. which relate to circulars. pamphlets. and certain other unsealed mailings. while one wishes to see the cost of his doing business increased. it is my understanding that users of second- and thirdclass mail will be able to continue their operations under the senate version of the bill and i strongly urge that the senate conferees insist upon that version. from what i have heard in the chamber this morning. that is the general purport of the feeling among senators.
. all is well that ends well. although the raise in pay is  what the postal workers and the government employees thought they should have received. the increase given is certainly an earnest expression of the good faith of the congress to try to do justice for them. even more significant is the fact that the workers were very disquieted about joining the pay raise bill with a bill that would raise postal rates. we should congratulate the committee chairman for having carried off that procedure successfully. there was disquietude about it and great worry. many of us were besieged to bring about a separation of both parts of the bill. the chairman of the committee asked us to go along with his proposal as the way to do it. we did. the chairman is entitled to the credit that is due for having successfully carried off something which was difficult. and about which many had grave disquiet.
. i have had printed an amendment similar in character to the one the senate has just  tabled. the other amendment pertained to the extension services. some additional problems exist. both as to whether that amendment is to substantive law and whether it would affect the problem of the increase in postal rates. in view of the mood of the senate. as just  expressed in connection with this appropriation bill. i feel that the point i wished to make has been made and has been passed upon by the senate. therefore. i shall  press for action  by the senate on the other amendment. but shall proceed along that line when the occasion next presents itself.
. during the recent hearings before the manpower subcommittee of the senate labor and public welfare committee. of which i am a member. highly significant testimony was presented by mr. herman p. miller. of the census bureau. about the deepest sources of negro discontent. an article in the new york times of august 18. 1963. describes mr. millers testimony and concludes: the negro revolt has many causes. but its basic power is that of the force of ecoic wretchedness. the census bureau testimony fully supports this thesis and. as the article points out: disputes the widespread impression that the relative position of the negro in the affluent society has improved in recent years. i ask unanimous consent that the times article be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
the senator is doubt aware of the fact that i am considered to beand i say this with  undue modestya rather outspoken advocate of civil rights legislation. at least in the number of things i have said and done in its behalf. i was up for reelection in 1962. after enactment the civil rights acts of 1957 and 1960. which i took a very active part in helping to have enacted. i do  believe those acts meant very much. but etheless they became law. yet i was reelected in 1962 by the largest majority of any candidate for federal office in the united states.
. of all the methods being used to bombard the people of this country with erroneous and inflammatory interpretations of the current civil rights bill. e is more nefarious than the effort to use legitimate and hoable organizations as a screen of respectability for such a campaign. one organization  being victimized by this sort of propaganda is the lions international. one of our finest and most hardworking organizations for community betterment. mr. william bird. secretary of the lions international. with headquarters in chicago. last night confirmed to my office that anticivilrights propaganda had been mailed to lions members in many parts of the country by a lions club in mississippi. and that at least one lions club official resigned in protest some months ago. mr. bird said the mississippi club was told to refrain from using lions club lists or directories to mail this sort of material. but even . however. lions club officers are receiving a new dose of anticivilrights material. and are being urged to disseminate it as a means of earning money for their local charity funds. certainly it is a rather grim aaly to ask that proposed legislation. which would provide justice and equal opportunity. be defeated in the name of earning charity funds. i have been informed that lions club officers have received these letters from a mr. w. h. m. stover. a resident of washington. d.c.. and that they contained: first. a proposal to join a project and crusade plan. which. according to mr. stover. could net each club between $500 and $1.500 in 10 to 15 days. by distributing mr. stovers yettobepublished book. second. a copy of a "memo from a businessman to his associates and friends." this memo reads in part as follows: should the senate approve and pass the house version (of the civil rights bill) you longer control hiring. firing or even determine the type of person you employ. mr. stover is thorough in suggesting that businessmen receiving this memo place it on their bulletin boards. send it as a letter to their local editor. mail copies to key businessmen. and give copies to each staff member. but he did  mention that businessmen in 26 of our 50 states already work under fair employment practices acts. many of them more stringent than the fepc provision in the present bill. and that the businessmen in the main industrial states of the nation. including illis. new york. pennsylvania. have  lost the right to hire or the right to fire.
. in order to show the drastic change in the mail since last february. when the mail from those against civil rights was for the first time running slightly in excess of those for it. to the present time when it is 31/2 to 1 in support of the bill. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a chart showing the ratio of pro and con civil rights mail from september 1963. to april 1964. from new york state.
. the subject is a grave one. the ecoic impact of curtailed defense installation activities will be felt throughout this entire country. a particular situation cited by my colleague . is the example of rome. n.y. there are other examples in our state. on long island. and elsewhere. about which we have spoken in the senate. many other senators have observed these situations throughout the nation. one wishes to stand in the way of the most effective national defense and of the most effective operations of our armed forces.  does anyone wish to stand in the way of an intelligent ecoic program. we all understand that there must be openings. closings. consolidations. and efficiencies in this whole field. but in addition to all that. and quite properly. as these activities are carried on by secretary mcnamara. there is an obligation that is owed to communities which are profoundly and directly affected. i am very glad to sayand i believe it is a real tribute to the secretary of defensethat in testifying on april 16. before the defense procurement subcommittee to which i have just referred. the secretary very frankly stated that he believed the department of defense itself should have complete responsibility for dealing with the ecoic impact on particular communities of the curtailment of operations or the closing of defense activities or installations. he has since submitted to the subcommittee a detailed analysis of the organization and operations of the office in the department of defense which has been created for the purpose of dealing with this mat-. ter. the name of this organization is the office of ecoic adjustment. and it is operated under the assistant secretary of defense (installations and logistics). this particular office is extremely small and is staffed by a director and two professional staff assistants. its undertaking of assistance consists primarily of coordination with other elements of the federal government with respect to enlisting advice and aid. and although the will exists. it is questionable whether its resources are sufficient to do the job. an expansion of this office may be desirable. a review of this matter is necessary. consequently. if the chairman of the joint ecoic committee feels that his committee can conduct hearings. i trust that aher suitable committee of the senate will look into the question of whether the federal government is really fulfilling its obligations to seriously adversely affected communities in the matter of the closing of defense installations or the termination of defense activities. the situation requires the urgent attention of congress.
six and twelve. or it can fix a higher one. the defense department fixes 50 percent. i am  quarreling that we  give preference to the people of the united states. i am for it. i am arguing against the absolute protectionist device to bar any kind of procurement from any place outside the united states. including components. this device flies in the face of what we. ourselves. have preached and will be used against us so heavily that we should  begin to think it is worth putting in the bill. that is why i offer my proposal. it is said that if the bill goes back to the other body with an amendment differing from the senates acceptance of its amendment. the other body will  take it. in the first place. this is reason for committing an injustice to our own policy. both foreign and domestic. secondly. again let us keep our eyes on the ball. the pending bill is what the members of the other body voted for. i do  believe it is logical to suppose that this fact overshadows completely what the senate should do. it is a niggling. unwise. and very -injudicious provision. but i doubt that this will be the basis on which the house will reject the whole bill which. with respect to a totally different subject. especially as my amendment relates to it. does  seek to do anything but actually apply the buy american concept. all i am doing is seeking to remove an absolute bar to the application of a policy which. after much consideration. we have adopted. and which has been in effect for three decades. i ask the senate to adopt a substitute motion which would incorporate in the bill. in lieu of the bar against any procurement from abroad whatever. the provisions of the buy american act. the considered american policy on this particular subject. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. i. too. would like to join my colleague from new york. i was hoed to be invited by him to join as a cosponsor of the amendment. i. too. have received a great amount of mail. and have had personal visits and phone calls from a tremendous number of nature lovers who fight hard for proper practices with respect to animal life. i hope this particular provision can be stricken from the bill. i shall join my colleague from new york with great feeling of public service in doing that. if he can possibly accomplish it in the senate.
. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a civil service commission memorandum which i requested. on cost to the civil service retirement fund which would be entailed under this bill.
. at its next printing. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from texas be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend the civil service retirement act to authorize retirement without reduction in annuity of employees with 20 years of service involuntarily separated from the service by reason of the abolition or relocation of their employment.
. i should like to ask the senator from mississippi a few questions on this matter of the hawkeye aircraft which has been deleted from the bill as introduced. i suggested to the senators assistant on the floor that i would ask these questions. we sent a series of questions to the navy. which has specifically answered them. the information elicited would seem to indicate two aspects of the matter which have a tendency to dictate. perhaps. some change in the committees action. king that this is an issue which will come before the committee in conference. i pose these questions for the senator: in essence. what we glean from the navys answers is that if we did what the committee suggests. namely. to stretch out the present procurement in order to see what progress is being made in getting out more of the "bugs" in the hawkeye aircraft. we would encounter two difficulties. one would be that we could  sustain the approved force levels for this type of aircraft without new procurement. leaving a period of at least 6 months during which force levels would drop or the e1b interim aircraft would be pushed beyond the period of carrier service recommended for it. the second point is that there would be a gap in production which would be quite expensive. it would add $8 million to the cost of the program to break production and then restore the production at a later date. i should deeply appreciate the senators commenting on these two difficulties. and also on the fact that an exercisewhich followed the testimony of secretary mcnamara on this subjectelicited the comment from the carrier task force commander .that the performance of the e2a hawkeye aircraft was "outstanding." taking all these points together. will the senator from mississippi be kind egh to give the senate his views as to the program. and the disposition of the committee toward it.
may i answer the senator. i do  use the word "answer" in an adversary sense. there is something to be said which will bear on the senators comment. as to the 25percent figure. we are meeting the standard the senator has stated. because the attorney general must request the bureau of the census to make a survey. and that must show a registration pattern in accordance with the senators views. as to the figure of 50 percent voting plus 20 percent of negroes in the population. the analysis of this figureand the attorney general justifies this in his presentationindicates that in practically all places where those incidences occur. it is a fact that there is an adverse relationship between negro registration and negro voting. and white registration and white voting. the attorney general has taken this position. and i would guess that he would take it in a considered way in a letter to the senator. if the senator should ask him. the department might agree to apply that test before deciding whether to press the trigger. even if the trigger were primed. even assuming less than 50 percent voting or registered. plus a 20percent incidence of all eligible negroes in the area. plus a petition from 20 citizens. i believe the attorney general might say he did  intend to press the trigger if. in fact. there was a pattern of registration and voting lacking discrimination pursued over a long period of time and showing a fair promise of equality between white and negro. i think that would be worth looking into. because it was my impression that one of the things the attorney general told us was. "naturally. i am giving discretion as to whether i will press the trigger. even if it is primed. but i will use that discretion with a certain amount of wisdom and governance. in the sense of when it ought to be used and when it ought  to be used. too. i am  bound to press the trigger every time it is primed." that was clearly his testimony. i believe that if the senator from louisiana would pursue that point. he would find that his views on that score would undoubtedly be borne out in the administration of the act.
 i merely wish to point out that the technique used with respect to the attorney general -and his request to the director of the census is the very same technique which is contained in the bill in section 4(b) with respect to the socalled 25 percent triggering mechanism.
. i learned to have a deep affection for olin johnston. it is well kn that i had a fundamental difference with him on the question of civil rights and racial policy. this difference did  prevent me from seeing. however. the great qualities of the man which to me stood out in two ways. one was his capacity for friendship. even with those who. like myself. differed with him. it was a warm. personal. and understanding friendship. second was his emous solicitude for the civil service of this nation. in my own experienceand i served in the house and in the senatei k of man who had the feeling for the civil service. the understanding of its people. and the affection for its people. 2 million strong. however they were placed in the country. that senator johnston had. he had almost a fraternal relationship with every one of us. i join with other senators in hoing his distinguished memory and extending the deepest sympathy and condolence of mrs. javits and myself to mrs. johnston and his family.
. in any event. the necessary action is  being taken. and the regular u.s. mail delivery will be extended on july 31 to the negroes of philadelphia. miss.. just as it has been all along to all the other citizens of that town. i ask unanimous consent that the correspondence on this subject be printed at this point in the record.
. first. relating to the census item. it is my understanding that the administrations request for this particular item is expected to be included in a bill. the item relates to the duty of the secretary of commerce. i  read from section 801 of the act: sec. 801. the secretary of commerce shall promptly conduct a survey to compile registration and voting statistics in such geographic areas as may be recommended by the commission on civil rights. such a survey and compilation shall. to the extent recommended by the commission on civil rights. only include a count of persons of voting age by race. color. and national origin. and determination of the extent to which such persons are registered to vote. and have voted in any statewide primary or general election in which the members of the united states house of representatives are inated or elected. since january 1. 1960. such information shall also be collected and compiled in connection with the nineteenth decennial census. and at such other times as the congress may prescribe. the provisions of section..9 and chapter 7 of title 13. united states code. shall apply to any survey. collection. or compilation of registration and voting statistics carried out under this title. obviously the point is that we were consistently met with the allegation that it is  possible to ascertain how many negroes were unable to vote or unable to register to vote because statistics were  kept which would disclose the required information. the need for specific information in these categories induced congress to pass section 801 of the act. it has been on the books since july 2. 1964. i am deeply puzzled by the fact that effort has been made up to  to get any money to implement the requirement under this provision. we are informed by the bureau of the census and by the department of commerce that they will ask for funds in the supplemental appropriation bill. i raise this question at this time to get some concept of whether this subject was considered at all by the appropriations committee. headed by the distinguished chairman. the senator from arkansas . as to what the disposition is or is likely to be. and whether any consideration was given to the inclusion of this item in this appropriation bill. which comes 1 year after the effective date of the statute which authorized this activity. and which. we are told. is to be included in the supplemental appropriation bill. which will come later than this bill. can the chairman enlighten me.
. the senator probably ks that we operate the biggest post office in the country in new york. and that thousands of postal workers are concerned. the senator ks. too. how hard they have fought through the years for the idea of comparability. and how disappointed they are  that the increase which is contemplated being granted by congress is  based. as the senator has frankly and typically stated. on complete comparability. but on the overall ecoic situation in the country. i feel. withstanding my deep concern and deep advocacy of what postal workers wish and what the law promises them in terms of its purposes. that undoubtedly considering the fact that this is near the end of a session. the committee has done what it could legitimately do. to consider that the national ecoy should observe the benefit and the impact of the guidelines. i feel that there is a rather special case to be made for justice to the postal workers. and i am glad to see the statement in the committee report. on page 4. that next year congress will endeavor to make a reality of the comparability concept. king the senator as well as i do. i am sure that he does  even have to give me any assurance that he will-
postal workers. especially those with modest seniority rights. are deeply concerned about section 3571 (b). which vests in the postmaster general the power to establish work schedules in advance for annualrate regular employees consisting of five 8hour days in each week. they have feared that this would result in the postmaster general. possibly. in his own judgmentwhatever that may beimposing upon regular employees work on sunday. they came to me with the idea of an amendment which would exclude sunday from this provision. i have discussed this matter with the distinguished chairman. especially in view of the attitude of the committee. which is set forth on pages 5 and 6 of the report. in which the committee states that it "has encouraged the department to give preference to the maximum extent practicable to senior regular employees for a basic workweek of monday through friday." i ask the senator this question: if we left it solely at that. without any color. without any feeling of emphasis on the part of the committee for the maximum extent practicableand the chairman has been in the senate a long time. and he ks that the administrator can forget about it and do what he pleasesi do  say that he is going to do wrong. but he is going to do pretty much what he pleasesi believe it would be extremely helpful if the chairman of the committee. as a part of the legislative record. would give us some feeling as to two points: one. the basic feeling of the committee. which i understand from him is that they will look with disfavor upon the inclusion of sundays. unless the employee himself wishes it. under the continuous workweek discretion given under the bill to the postmaster general. and second. and equally important. it seems to me. that the committee will exercise its important oversight jurisdiction to see that the spirit in which it has written this provision. to give the postmaster general more flexibility than the worker. is carried out in the way that the committee desires. consistent with its view on pages 5 and 6 of the report.
if the senator objects to the way i phrase it. he is a good egh friend of mine to correct mebut is it the desire of the committee. when the postmaster general or his subordinates order a senior regular employee to work on a saturday or a sunday against his wishes. that they should consider it to be a situation which would have to be justified. that does  mean the committee will haul them up. but. prima facie. the senator expects the department  to do it. unless it has some particularly good reason for doing it. and the committee expects the department  to do it. is that  correct.
i understand. i understand also the concept of preference. which is a good one. i have one other question: does the committee contemplate that. generally speaking. the size of the staffs that have to handle the weekend mail will continue. and is this drawn up in light of the fact that it is expected that the size of the staff which has handled weekend mail will continue. is that going to be about the same.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of a resolution adopted by the town of hempstead. nassau county. n.y.. requesting the federal office of ecoic opportunity to reinstate funds deleted from nassau county programs.
can the manager of the bill assure us. therefore. that in accepting this amendment he accepts it as a prudent financial provision rather than as a finding "yes" or " upon the question of the procurement of the tfx as an effective airplane for the navy.
. with the permission of the sponsors of the bill.i ask unanimous consent that my name may be added as a cosponsor of s. 1400. introduced by the senator from florida and the senator from california relating to improvement of statistics of the united states. providing for a special census in 1968 and 1975.
with all respect. . on the specific risk guarantee. they make it a conditionagain. they have the right to refuse the guaranteethat the investment on which the risk is guaranteed must involve the procurement in the united states or in a less developed country of goods and services in an amount substantially equal to the amount of the guarantee. i understand that procurement in the united states comes close to 70 percent of the investment guaranteed. what they are doing is administering these guarantees in such a way as to deal with any adverse impact on the balance of payments. aher thing that i think it is important to emphasize is that we are dealing with the extent of foreign aid here and whether we want to go all of the way with grants and loans by the u.s. government or whether we want to pursue some other course.
the committee finds that is a superior right to the right of the sender to send something. i wish to call attention to the testimony of mr. wozencraft. he dealt with the right of the homeowner. which involves a right far more sacred than the mails. and that is trespass. mr. wozencraft had this to say on the same page: the courts have neither answered this question  clearly foreshadowed what their answer will be. i am trying to suggest a technique by which the postmaster general and the courts can enforce this law and  run afoul of the civil liberties of the citizens involved. that technique would be that somewhere and somehow in the courts there would have to be a substantive finding that the material was actually. in accordance with the law. erotically arousing or sexually provocative. and that the court would accept findings of fact that that is the kind of material which should be legitimately barred from the mail under the constitution. i agree that should be implemented by the courts as if it were the courts definition.
that is an interesting point because there is penalty on the sender if he resists the ice of the cease and desist order. i think he would even have the right to enjoin the postmaster general if he were given such a ice. when i found there was penalty on the sender. that a refusal to obey the order is crime. i felt it better to leave this matter to the courts than to rework the bill. especially since i am sympathetic to the bill.
the senator will remember how i felt about the matter.. i repeat what i said thenbecause. we are finally closing the recordthat it is possible to reconcile the fourth amendment privilege with the first amendment privilege by having the courts. if they sought to. enjoin the postmaster. if they felt that strongly about it. and that a case could be made out. withstanding the fact that the amendment reads- "in his sole discretion." i still believeand i say this advisedlythat the courts would have to reconcile the first and fourth amendment protections. as the first amendment also protects the addressor. who has a righti believe i gave the. example of what sometimes happens in politicsto try to persuade the addressee.. that is a. right. also. just as. it is the right of the addressee to his privacy. i am  in any way disagreeing with the fundamental thrust of the legislation. it is a- problem- we have all endured as fathers. i have young children. also. the senator has been through that. and so have many other senatorsl we understand what we are trying to reach. but i point out that it is possible for the courts to reconcile the first and fourth amendment privileges by dealing with the substantive nature of the items in question and by respecting the rights of both the addressor and the addressee.. i believe the senator. by his leadership. has been responsible for tying together the rates and the salaries. i have seen this tried for years. it is a most creative concept. the postal employees. as the senator ks. are very articulate. as are many other government employees. and they do  feel that this is necessarily the optimum or that comparability has thereby been attained. i believe that what the senator has creatively led in being done on the subject of postal rates and federal salariesespecially the salaries of postal workershas gone a long way toward giving meaning to the concept of comparability. which was offered quite. a few years ago. before it came to its own right in this bill. we all. are grateful to the senator for his arduous labors and the very creative way in which he has worked out this particular problem.
just one or two other questions. i ice the senator has eliminated from the reduction of personnel or freeze on personnel the department of defense. the postal field service. the federal bureau of investigation. and casual employees. i can understand the solicitude about the fbi. which is traditional here. but i wonder why. with the emous employment in the department of defense. with the tens of thousands of public employees. the senator has left that out.
i want to add to what the senator has just said. there has been some talk in the press. and even on the floor of the senate. about the issue of antisemitism in respect to the ination of mr. justice fortas. i was very much pleased to see a survey made by the american jewish committee. a very distinguished organization. which showo many extremist organizations. ranging all the way from "we the people" to others that are so thoroughly identified with antisemitic causeswe all k them by nameare getting a big free ride on the fortas ination. i ask unanimous consent that the report of the american jewish committee be made a part of my remarks. i do that really because i think it is very important to members who are getting mail on the subject. it must be very clear that the reason why they are getting the mail is that these organizations. which have widespread machinery for distributing this very scurrilous material. are distributing it all over the country. i believe we have already stated what the situation is here. i would rather let the recoid stand on that. the american jewish committee states its people do  consider antisemitism to be at the root of the controversy. ody ks what is in ones heart or mind. the only thing we can go on is the test of responsibility. is there any evidence. what little shred of evidence there was i put in the record on a previous occasion. but i did think this little statement of fact was desirable in the interest of all of us.
i am sorry. but i can accept the fine words of my colleague. the senator from florida. about the fact that this is  a balanced diet. i saw these kids. and so did the other members of the committee. and this was  a matter of their having an unbalanced diet. it was a matter of the larder being empty. in many cases. we actually looked into the larder to find out. i also point out. that one of the figures in this area which is fascinating is the fact that the postneonatal mortality rate per thousand live birthsthat is. deaths from 1 month to 1 year after birthin respect to this particular area is approximately three times the national average for the united states. for whites it is 14 per thousand live births. for collier county it is 40 per thousand live births. these are federal government statistics and i would like to ask unanimous consent to have these statistics placed in the record.
. i would like to do so. but that matter falls so peculiarly within the purview of the committee on post office and civil service that they might think it amiss. however. i would say that i am very sympathetic with the senator. and i k that he is correct. undoubtedly. we will have questions of comparability as to the way in which the federal government handles its plan. its funding. and vesting. and so forth. i deeply believe that quite legitimately. therefore. in connection with that evaluation we can dig into the facts and then it would so intrigue the committee on post office and civil service. because they have legislative jurisdiction. that they would push further along that line.
. todays bill includes several other very important provisions  included in s. 3465 last year. i refer to provisions bringing employers *with eight or more employees under the actpresent law covers only employers with 25 or more employeesand provisions which transfer the functions of the office of federal contract compliance and the civil service commission with respect to equal opportunity for employees of federal contractors. and the federal government itself. respectively. to the eeoc. these provisions are fine. in principle. the manner in which the federal contract compliance program has been run so far certainly leaves much still to be done.  has the civil service commission been completely successful by any means in reducing the discrimination still practiced in many government agencies. giving direction and control of these programs to one agency could result in much more effective programs as well as much less overlap. duplication. and confusion for those who are required to comply with the law. what concerns me is that this potential improvement can be realized if. and only if. the commission is given sufficient funds to do the job. unfortunately. the record so far does  provide reasonable assurance that that will be the case. right . without enforcement power. and without responsibility for the federal contract compliance program or the program to end discrimination among federal government employees. the commission is staggering under a backlog of cases. the backlog is such that it presently takes about 18 months to 2 years for the commission to finally dispose of a case after a charge is first filed. under these circumstances if the commission is given additional authority. without additional resources to carry out its responsibilities for title vii of the civil rights act. the federal governments commitment to equal employment opportunity will become a farce. i e. in this connection. that the chairman of the commission. william brown. is entirely in accord with the position i have stated. thus. two of the questions propounded to chairman brown by senator kennedy in connection with the hearing to confirm his ination. went into the possibility of switching the functions of the office of federal contract compliance to the eeoc. the questions. and chairman browns answers were as follows: q. what would be your reaction to switching the office of federal contract compliance to the eeoc. a. i would be in favor of switching the ofcc to the eeoc if. and only if. we were to have the enforcement powers that go along with that office as well as having the very substantial staff and budgeting which would be required. q. if it were transferred. do you feel that the eeoc would need massive new staff and budget. a. absolutely. i expect that these questions will be gone into in further depth when hearings are held on this important legislation. moreover. i want to emphasize my complete support for the principle of giving the commission cease and desist order power. despite the progress that has been made in recent years. discrimination in employment is still pervasive in the united states. over 15.000 cases were filed with the commission last year. it should be perfectly obvious that we are  really going to make the decisive impact on this problem unless and until employers and even any unions involved in practicing discrimination understand that the federal government is just  going to tolerate it. and that the government has the power and is willing to give and to implement the authority to stop it.
. i think it is important that the senate have some concept of the additional language which went into the smith amendment and why i shall vote for it. i hope very much. as senators hart and cooper have annced. that other senators who support the cooperhart amendment will vote for it. too. what it does. is to make. in my judgment. a very substantive difference in opening up research and development. testing. evaluation. and related procurement to advance abm systems other than safeguard. this does  mean that if safeguard has a transistor that we can. deal with that transistor in aher system. or a weapon. or a sprint. or a par. or anything else that happens to be in the safeguard system. but it does take off the restraints on the ambit of research and development which we are authorizing so as to reject safeguard as the system upon which the research and development will be focused and extend it to the most advanced. the best abm system our people may wish to research and experiment with. it seems to me. as the senator from kentucky has said. that represents the fundamental concept which we have had in respect of the cooperhart amendment. and represents acceptance by the senate of responsibility for a weapons system of such major character. with such portentous political effect as we have been debating here that. therefore. it should be acceptable to those of us--
. what is involved here is the matter of adequate enforcement of title vii of the civil rights act. the backlog of cases in the eeoc is about 2 years with thousands of cases backed up. decreasing this appropriation is the least expensive way in which a grave cause of tension can be dealt with because it is strictly administrative and has tremendous leverage for the amount involved. which is $4.5 million. great results can be obtained which would otherwise take millions of dollars in job placement. job training. and so forth. the machinery is there and the law is in order. it is a matter of adding more funds for administration. i said i would bring an additional fact to the consideration of the senate. there is  pending before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. basic legislation with regard to amendments to the statute which created this commission. this legislation proposes to concentrate in the equal employment opportunity commission the work of the office of federal contract compliance. of course. discrimination in government departments  is in the hands of the civil service commission. there is some opposition for that consolidation which otherwise would make an emous amount of sense. the commission is  2 years behind and its back would be broken if we do the efficient thing and concentrate jurisdiction of all these matters within this one commission without substantially increasing funds. that is the reason we should give this commission the means to do the job. there is pretense in the report of the committee that we are giving the means to the commission. it is based on the fact we are giving them a little more money than last year. so it must be adequate without regard to the substantive questions involved. for those reasons i hope the senate will agree to the amendment.
. how very kind of the senator. i am deeply. deeply appreciative to him. i. too. would like to join my colleagues in commending mr. peterson who succeeded our own colleague from illis to the presidency of the distinguished bell & howell co.. and who has rendered such a very le public service in making this report.
. i requested more time than we obviously will need to deal with this amendment. the senator from kansas . commendably. has made his statement brief. and so has the senator from minnesota . and i will be brief. also. the only point that has  been made is that every illegitimate union activity which senator dole says he believes his amendment reaches is dealt with by the corrupt practices act. beyond that. if he goes beyond that. and i think his amendment does. you are dealing with first amendment rights.  even the right of a trade union to tell its own members what it thinks about anything or to write an editorial in its newspaper. whether it is for or against any of us. we should be vigilant to protect those rights. again. the penalty is much greater than any crime that is likely to be committed. because they lose their whole taxexempt status. i can conceive of that. in addition. this amendment is very vague. and i think courts would hold it is vague and indefinite. this is a penalty provision. let us remember. what is meant by the words "participate in" or. what is even worse to my mind. "intervening". it seems to me that if you publish an article in which you say this union has or has  endorsed so and so. that is intervening in an election. so i do  think the amendment is saved for the fact that it is confined to candidates. the corrupt practices act is confined to candidates in federal elections. what the appendage "an agricultural or horticultural organization" means. i do  k. it is apparently a tail which may be wagging this dog- and may be insignificant. but it is there. and we have to take it for what it is. and it leaves us in considerable doubt and will worry any court. what does it mean in terms of "an agricultural or horticultural organization" in respect of participation in or intervening in any political campaign. on those grounds. and because it seems to me the question was thoroughly debated and decidedly decided by the senate. i hope very much that the amendment will be rejected.
i should like to identify myself with my colleagues statement on that score. and also express to him my support of the amendment. . in my judgment senator cooperas alwayshas made a wise and kledgeable statement which deserves the close attention of the senate and the nation. as my colleagues will recall from the record of the debate on senator coopers amendment to the defense procurement authorization bill. i find myself in great agreement with my colleague on this vital matter.
i can accept that conclusion at all. but i have to apply it in the way in which it can be applied. whoever is there to apply it. right . in the present state of law. only the states have power in respect to de facto segregation. because they control educational assistance. thus. i am doing my utmost to motivate my state. as i am sure other senators are on that score. as to the interposition of a federal law. i would have joined issue on that gladly. as to the practical details of working it out. i think any of my dugin opponents would  charge me with the thought that i would  join in that. but i would oppose it and would say that i am against it because it would strike at my part of the country. the senator from kentucky has an amendment to the bill which went rather directly to my part of the country and i had to accept it. i am sorry about that. but that is it. the president has put troops into the new york post office. although he did  put them into other post offices. which is too bad. new york has the largest post office in the country. the postal workers there are very angry at what they consider to be great injustice. we have to accept that. i feel the same way about this. if we had a law that had been properly stated. i am sure that we could all join issue on it and work on the details. but i would have objection to it in principle.
. i join with the senior senator from nevada in expressing the deepest regrets of the senate on the passing of thomas f. corcoran. in his capacity as consultant to the select committee on small business. mr. corcorans excellent work in attempting to facilitate the dealings of the smallbusinessman with the federal government was highly impressive. his approach to the problems of small business. as evidenced particularly in the report of the committee on the federal paperwork burden. on which he worked so diligently. was that of a scholar. and the report has served as a basis for alleviating many of the impediments of federal redtape. mr. corcoran. as an expert in the field of statistics. represented the us. government many times at international cxvi---890part 11 statistical conferences and. as consultant to a number of latin american governments. assisted in the development of census programs for those countries. mr. corcoran was a dedicated and conscientious member of the committees staff and was indeed a most pleasant man with whom to work. on behalf of the miity and as ranking member of the select committee. i wish to offer deepest sympathies to his wife and family. exhbrit 1 [from the washington post. apr. 26. 1970]
. i think the debate has shown exactly why i offered this amendment. we had a stalemate after the tremendous debate over section 14(b). which labor worked for like anything they ever did work for. these divisions are clear in this bill. therefore. if we are going to put the post office on a business basis and it must be remembered that is why postal employees went back to workthen all matters are subject to bargaining. we should restore the same conditions for those workers as we have for all workers. that is why i feel the amendment is necessary. it represents a longstanding policy of the united states. there is reason why we should deviate from that policy in respect of the postal union.
. what this does is to establish the businesslike quality of the postal service. the other body has chosen to utilize various business procedures. but in the final analysis. it has left the rates subject to veto by congress. it is like logrolling in the old days of the tariff. that is what we have involved in the postal bill. we have all kinds of things going on with respect to ratemaking. personally. i believe that one of the big strengths of the senate bill is in the ratemaking provision. for people like me. there is a good deal in each of the bills that is very commendable. and in the senate bill the ratemaking provisions are most commendable. the essential element. as i have explained. is that we do  have a congressional veto. it becomes a businesslike proposition in the senate bill. the senate bill does provide for a 10year phaseout of special concessions with regard to postal rates. and in addition it  has in it my amendment and the mansfield amendment which continues particular benefits which go to books and small newspapers. that is the explanation. it is generic in its concept. i hope very much that the senate. and indeed the sponsor of the substitute. will look upon it favorably. if the substitute is agreed to. then the ratemaking provision would be in conference. the house provision would be before the conference. as would be the measure offered by the senator from tennessee.
. the senate had 2 routes to go. it could either enact the substitute. which was the house bill. with the best things from the senate bill. or work the other route. which is what it is doing . this is the redemption of the promise to postal workers that they be treated like workers in the private sector. in the private sector they would  have this boom lowered on them. we are asking only that they have the same opportunities locally as national unions. it is  giving them anything. i hope very much the measure will be approved.
 and the administration said. "we will put this thing through right away." well. we did . the most you can ask for under those circumstances is 30 days. i ask the senator from wyomingand incidentally. i would like to join in the tribute to their interest. their fine employee relations. their genuineness of heart. and the eloquence of the senator from hawaii. in which i take great pleasure. the fact is. however. that there is an inequity. a fact which is being recognized by the manager of the bill. the question is. how wide shall be the band. i think under the circumstances of these men trusting the u.s. government by coming back to work. the band is much too wide. that is the real nub of the reason why i had to make this amendment. and had to pick. because there was other way to do it. in view of the attitude of the committee. the date picked by the other body. we may be off 2 weeks. and we may . the fundamental fact that these people are waiting. when they have reason to believe that they would have to take this long. is the real basis for this amendment. which i think the senate ought to agree to out of respect for the longstanding perseverence. in the finest traditions of government employment. of the postal workers. in the face of the fact that they have been badly treated for years. i say this amendment ought to be adopted as a matter of simple justice.
we are  heavily engaged in the committee on labor and public welfare in writing a manpower training blil. one of the aspects of the manpower training bill relates to public service jobs. we have great differences of opinion between the miity and the majority. but it seems clear that some element of public service jobs will be included. will the senator give us some view from the committee. which i think would be very useful. as to the degree of legislative oversight to be exercised. to be sure there is in this operation the input which should come from agencies dealing with manpower problems. if we obtain all we are looking for. it would  all be concentrated under the department of labor. auf&s[ 5. 1970 would the chairman or the ranking niity member give us some assurance that in this pilot plan operation. of which i approve. every effort will be made for the right hand to k what the left hand is doing and that every effort will be made to have input of experience. kledge. and so forth. of the departments responsible for the proposed new manpower training program.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be also placed in the type of residence: rural ------------------urban -----------------sex of family head: male ..................... female ------------------work experience of family head: worked full year .......... .worked part year.----- ..... did  work ---- ------ educatio family head: 8 years or less ............ 1to 3 years high school-.4 years high school. --.... college. 1 to 3 years. ..... . co lege. 4 years or more ---37.3 19 3 62.7 13.8 70.3 9.8 29.7 : 35.0 31.9 27.2 39.7 53.8 20.4 18:1 4.3 3.3 5.8 21.2 35.1 22.9 13.8 7.5 5.3 3.4 source: u.s. department of commerce. bureau of the census
. a reading of the report will indicate that this entire bill is the result of a most intensive process of committee consideration. bargaining. and adjustment. which has brought it to this point of consideration legislatively. from the number of references to amendments which i and other members of the miity have incorporated in the billand the majority was gracious egh to state that by name of the proposing senatorit is also obvious that the final result is an amalgam of the thinking of the miity and the majority. with some exceptions which have been highlighted by senator dominicks amendments. in the process. a good deal of the bills structure has been compromised as between the majority and the miity. and has given accommodation to the views of the administration. i think that this is important. because we always look closely at where we differ. we look all too infrequently at where we agree. it is very significant. for example. that the amendments proposed by the senator from colorado do  even contest the authorized amounts for the total manpower training program which approximates $2 billion. or even for the public service portion which runs to a billion dollars and more as time goes on. indeed. it is interesting republicans should have accepted that some element of public service employment must be incorporated in the bill. i remember that i joined former senator clark of pennsylvania in early efforts to get some acceptance of this principle but we were frustrated and turned back time and again.  both republicans and democrats accept it. and so does the administration to some extent. there will be other amendments which the senator from colorado will offer. which will point up the differences in view between the administration and the majority of the committee respecting who shall administer the programs. the administration is largely committed to state administration. the majority favors local administration by the mayors. again. there has been great give and take. we have evolved a workable system. indeed. the amendments of the senator from colorado do  really change the basic structure of the bill. we may be working on a little refinement. the role of the states was perhaps depreciated in the course of trying to arrive at some amalgam of views. the important point i make here is that the critical nature of the measure. which is one of the real elements of the cornerstone of the u.s. ecoy. should be borne in mind as we vote on the amendments. the fundamental proposition as to major manpower training efforts and public service employment will be inaugurated by the bill. even if we take all the amendments offered by senator
the senator from wisconsin is most gracious. of course. he is the chairman of the subcommittee and this is essentially his work. i am very glad to have been his collaborator. . i have presented the choice on allocation respecting manpower training. public service employment. and categorical programs. the majority. in order to get a bill reported at all. made a concession in respect of its insistence on categorization. in permitting a 15 percent transferability clause between the titles. the dominick amendmentand the senator will correct me if i am wrongdoes  disturb that at all. so. there will be transferability whether or  we combine the categories. also. we gave certain incentives. we gave an incentive of 5 percent to encourage consolidation of areas. there again. the dominick amendment preserves that 5 percent. we then give aher 5 percent incentive for linkage with voceducational programs. the dominick amendment also does  disturb that. i repeat again that the senator from colorado tries to preserve in every way the best features of what we did. while making a bid for the administrations desires regarding decategorization. i should like to ask the senator two things concerning his amendment. first. his amendment provide that  less than $1.5 million shall be apportioned every stateand that is on line 17 of page 2and that  less than $150.000 shall be apportioned to the virgin islands. and so forth. as a practical matter. the committee bill provides that $3 million shall be apportioned to every state and $300.000 to these various possessions. because each states guarantee appears in a different title. i think that it would be desirable that the committees intention in that respect be retained. i wonder whether the senator might be willing to do that.
. to sum up. i think the issue which has been made before the senate is the following: shall we place in the hands of the secretary an aggregate fund. which in round figures we can call $2 billion. and he can then use 25 percent of that fund for any of the purposes of the bill. which includes the three major aspects of the billmanpower training. public service employment. and certain specialized categoriesor shall we earmark onethird each in these categories. that is the issue which faces the senate and i hope very much that having sharpened the issue that closely we might again hear from the senator from wisconsin and the senator from colorado on that one specific pointthe majority accounting for why it wants funds earmarked. of course. as any of us can easily point out in terms of the aggregate percentage involved. we are dealing with approximately $1.5 billion that would be earmarked. again. in the order of magnitude. something in the area of $400 million to $500 million. with transferability. would go to each of these three titles and something on the order of $500 million would go to the secretary which he could use in any of the titles under the committee plan. under the plan of the senator from colorado the $1.5 billion could be used by the secretary in different proportions for any of the first three titles. i think the senate would be helped in its consideration of how to make this decision if we could have some pinpointed explanation as to why the majority is dissatisfied with the latter proposition of the senator from colorado and why the senator from colorado is dissatisfied with the committee proposition.
they would  be precluded because they shall be given training. educational. and other supportive services as may be necessary to promote their skill and occupational development and mobility and to enable them to obtain other employment. that does  mean that if they can obtain other employment. they are necessarily cut out of the program. we will give them the kind of training in connection with public service jobs which would enable them to get other employment. that does  mean that they would be barred from the employment offered under title ii. as i pointed out when i first discussed the matter. i am  aborting the period 3 during which they can be employed on b the job. the senator from colorado i might have been willing to limit it to 2 1 years. i was  willing to go along with that. i say to the senator that obviously if we struck out that clause. we would be saying that there would be public service jobs accompanied by training. and so forth. but we would  necessarily point i that training toward the capacity to get other jobs. to that extent. it would reduce its impact. but when we reduce its impact. we reduce the impact substantially. it does open the door to the public service employment program without real regard to whether anything follows after or . that is substantially what is being done in the bill. it is the one point with respect to which the senator from wisconsin and i had our deep differences. i am still  satisfied to let it go at that without some feeling regarding the view of the senate. and that is the purpose of the debate.
. i wish to say just a word. the senator from colorado was very sparing in taking time. i am going with the committee on the whole bill. my reason for supportng this particular provision of the bill is that there is. in my judgment. a proper case to be made for the fact that the agency which handles the personnel policiesnamely. the civil service commissionshould  also be its own supervisor with respect to discrimination in employment. it is for that reason that i saw some sensei was  passionate about it. but i saw some sensein giving rulemaking and the review power to the eeoc. so that it may make a consistent discriminatory policy both in the federal government and in the state and local governments and for private employers. i submit that the rationale of the committees action is that it represents a sanction outside of the operation of the personnel policy of the civil service commission itself. experience has demonstrated. because of the very setup. that the personnel practicethe type of september .30.. 1970 examination. and so forthseems to open the door to discrimination. i. therefore. think this. is a healthy correction that is being made.. . .
 nixon to serve on the board of govers of the new u.s. postal service. these nine distinguished individuals represent a solid cross section of the country and have a broad variety of professional experience. mr. nixons inees include. mr. theodore w. braun. of california. mr. charles h. codding. jr.. of oklahoma. mr. william j. curtin. of washington. d.c.. mr. patrick e. haggerty. of texas. mr. andrew d. holt. of tennessee. mr. george e. johnson. of illis. mr. frederick r. kappel. of new york. mr. crocker nevin. of new york. and mr. myron a. wright. of texas. these key men will have the responsibility for the overall operation of the new postal system. facing this tremendous challenge. i k egh members of this group to feel that as responsible and well qualified individuals they will make every effort and take every step essential to make the u.s. postal service the kind of mail system the nation needs and deserves.
. i think the senator is quite right. and i will state to the senator what gave me great worry. and how those points were compromised. what gave me great worry was. first. the socalled addons. in addition to the amounts appropriated for manpower training. the senate had authorized a very substantial sum of addons in respect to public service employment. and the conference cut that amount by some $2.5 billion. i believe that was very statesmanlike. they had the votes to override us. chairmen nelson and perkins felt that that was wise. i think that they were very wise to do what they did. in cutting the amounts to what i think were understandable levels. in view of our unemployment situation. the second matter that troubled me was the conditions which were set for people. who were being put into public service because of this bill. to transfer eventually into mal public and private employment. again. i think we wrestled through the situation. and  have a technique by which there will be a real impetus toward the movement of people who were on public service jobs from those jobs to mal public and private employment. through reevaluation of their talents and through maximum efforts to place them. the third aspect that concerned me was the fixed allocation of equal thirds to public service employment. manpower training. and certain special categories of employment like the neighborhood youth corps. and mainstream. the administration had wanted categorization. but when we got a provision that 25 percent could be deducted from any one of these onethird items and put on aher appropriation. i felt we had given some reasonable flexibility. again. it was  exactly what we wanted. but i felt that we had compromised decently the problem which concerned me. those are the three points. and the three ways in which they were compromised.
that is what i was trying to point out before. perhaps i did  make myself clear. the slots are available. they can be filled because of lack of money. so we do have the paradox of having public service underemployment in terms of unmet needs and individual unemployment. that is what this seeks to try to fill in to some extent. but we are dealing there with hundreds of thousands in terms of unmet public needs.  just the limitations of this bill. which in way will meet the whole need. we have empty slots in municipalities. counties. and states which can be filled because they do  have the money for them.
. i ask unanimous consent that two excerpts from section 304 of the conference report be printed in the record in response to the specific question of the senator from alabama. that section sets forth the following condition for an application for financial assistance for public service employment programs.
the senator from michigan answered the point himself that this is a national law we are talking about it. however we may feel. and i have  the remotest ion how the senator will vote. that is his sovereign privilege as to however he may feel about the measure. for any reason. but we are really in a terrible "crunch" on unemployment. we are trying to do something on a transitional and emergency basis. there seems to be a big demand in the public service employment field and. therefore. we see the opportunity. consistent with the general pattern of the administrations approach. anyhow. to strike a blow against that crisis in unemployment. i would like to make it clear because i think that the senator from wisconsin
. what has occurred to me as a possible way to solve this dilemma is the followingi wonder if my colleague could think it over. and we could get a quorum call. even after the time is expiredto substitute for the amendment offered by the senator from ohio . the following words: "to the extent determined by the secretary to be consistent with the purposes of this act." that would give the secretary direct discretion with respect to the compensation level which is involved in a given agreement for public service employment
. there does seem to be a feeling on the part of many senatorswhich the senator from ohio is quite ardently putting before usthat under these circumstances. for public service employment of a transitional characterand i am very pleased that we did accept the suggestion of the senator from colorado we should  have the prevailing rates of pay proposition. i do  think we need to depart from the fundamental thrust of this bill to argue that question here and . under the circumstances of this. being employment to deal with a serious unemployment situation of a public service character and of a transitional character. i was going to suggest to the manager of the bill the possibility. in lieu of the ceiling of $600 which the senator from ohio would impose. and the proviso which he would impose. of simply saying. at the end of line 5 on page 32. after the word "employer." the following: to the extent determined by the secretary to be consistent with the purposes of this act. we would then vest discretion in the secretary as to what rate of compensation he would consider tolerable and appropriate in respect of the public service job contract which he makes. and thereby  lock the thing in on the strict prevailing wage rate basis. but give some latitude to particular situations. in view of the feeling of 30 or more senators that they are disquieted by this situation. i submit that to the manager of the bill as a possibility.
. i wish personally to commend the u.s. postal service for the efforts being made to improve the mail service. the new airmail delivery system is welcomed. the postmaster generals recent anncement regarding airmail delivery illustrates a major step in mail handling operation. he has promised that 95 percent of all airmail deposited by 4 p.m. weekdays in special white topped mailboxes on the street will be delivered the next delivery day in designated cities within a 600mile radius. and that mail will be delivered within 2 days in practically all large cities in the united states. the state of new york will certainly appreciate this improvement. which allows our correspondence to go out over the network quickly. accurately. and efficiently. the service the citizencustomer deserves is well underway. and i commend the postmaster general for this major evidence of improvement and automating the postal service.
. i wish to extend congratulations to miss hilda turner. a new york city mall handler. who has been named by postmaster general winton m. blount as the years "outstanding handicapped postal employee." i am very proud this ho was bestowed on miss turner. a new yorker. who is totally deaf and partially blind. she has an exemplary postal service record and a remarkable educational background. although miss turner is totally deaf. unable to speak with clarity and has a severe vision impairment. she has mastered her own means of communications. such techniques have enabled her to skillfully perform a variety of mail handling duties during the past 41/2 years. including the ability to distinguish special delivery mail from air mall letters. further. she holds a b.a. degree in psychology and sociology from brooklyn college and a masters degree in social studies from buffalo university. she is currently enrolled in additional graduate studies. congratulations are also in order for the u.s. postal service for employing the handicapped and for recognizing and saluting the achievements of these fine individuals. as the postmaster general has said. it is ability disabilitythat really counts.
that is correct. it is just an irritation. before i conclude. i do  want anything i have said about the whitten amendment or anything else to derogate from what i consider to have been a single and unique act of high public service by the distinguished chairman and the distinguished ranking miity member ifi their outstandihg and long careers. but having theconscience. and i use that word advisedly. they have brought us for the first time a bill which begins to meet the needsand the needs are great.
i thank the senator very much. we were well aware of that in our studies which led up to this bill. but our thought was. in view of the urgency of the problems i have named. toat least give the responsibility to epa to establish definitively some proportion of recycled material. thereby leapfrogging the question of what they are going to report and when they are going to report. and to determine what. in particular procurement activities. can be recycled. so this is a definitive proposal. we are learning the hard way that studies. which are verydesirableand which i have had in many casesshould  be permitted to block. when we can find a feasible way to do it. essential and desirable reforms.. i respectfully submit that this is an essential and desirable reform. the main point is that the recycled materials which are called for in the various amendments i have introduced as bills deal with paper. rubber. steel. or any other metal. glass or material which has been used in the production of goods for commerce. including both consumer scrap originating from objects previously sold to the consuming public and production scrap originating from the production of goods sold to the consuming public. but excluding home scrap leftover in the production of the raw material itself. the imtant point to be emnhasized. and the thing i am trying very hard to zero us in on. is the ecoic essentiality as well as the ecological essentiality of embarking upon the recycling of materials in a major way. using government procurement. which represents. in round figures. something in the area of 10 percent of our actual production and. when we add the states and cities. perhaps as much as 20 percent in this country. in order to inaugurate this really new aspect in american production life. . i talked with the chairman of the committee. the senator from new mexico . who has advised me that the committee will give me a hearing on this matter. which i shall seek from other committees similarly situated. and i would greatly appreciate hearing from him in this respect.
. i hope the resolution will be agreed to promptly. it is routine. but it is more than that. jim fulton was one of my dearest friends for 25 years. representative james g. fulton of pennsylvania was first elected in 1944. i served with him from the first day of my own service. which began immediately following the election of 1946. in the house of representatives and as a fellow member of the house committee on foreign affairs. representative fulton was one of the most generous. warmhearted. astute members with whom i have ever served. and. in my judgment. who ever served in the house of representatives. he was highly devotedindeed. i believe he remained a bachelor because of his dedication to the public service and his unwillingness. even so sacred a relationship as marriage. to give up the time and interest from the public service which might have been devoted to a family. i remember him very well as a member with me and representative chelf of kentucky on a committee engaged in the investigation of the problem of displaced persons in europe in 1947. and the tremendous influence he had in shaping the refugee relief act of that year. the displaced persons act. as it was called. did so much to take 2 million of the displaced persons out of europe and transport about 350.000 of them to the united states and the rest to other parts of the world and to resettlement in europe. his interest in the space program was very well kn in the other body and nationally. he was one of the principal architects of the constructive legislation on that score. altogether. he was a dear. beloved american. completely devoted to the interests of our country. and a warmhearted and generous friend. whom i had the great privilege of king intimately for a quarter of a century. he was a true son of our nation who devoted his life to serving his country. and whom i k members from his own state and throughout the country will remember with reverence. and gratitude that he spent such a fine and useful life.
. i also ask unanimous consent that a chart showing the operation of the public service employment program. and why.it does  have the slack to take up what is cut out here. may be made part of my remarks.
. with all the attention that has been focused in recent years on the problem of race and sex discrimination in employment. we may sometimes forget that title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 also forbids religious discrimination in employment. although  as conspicuous as race or sex discrimination. religious discrimination still exists as an impediment to the enjoyment by many americans of full equal employment opportunity. recently. the office of federal contract compliance issued a set of guidelines concerning the elimination of religious discrimination by federal contractors. the guidelines are contained in a memorandum from john l. wilks. director of the office of federal contract compliance. to the heads of all compliance agencies. the memorandum has  been printed in the federal register. in view of the widespread interest in the subject. i think it would be extremely beneficial to have the guidelines printed in the recoa. i. therefore. ask unanimous consent that the memorandum setting forth the guidelines be printed in the record.
just 1 minute. . again to help senators decide how they vote. i intendbecause of the parliamentary situation i can do it if the saxbe amendment is acted on and it should succeed. to propose an amendment to establish an equal opportunity coordination council to be composed of the secretary of labor. the chairman of the equal employment opportunities commission. the attorney general. and the chairman of the u.s. civil service commission. i hope that that will result in meeting what seems to be the main complaint. that is. that it will coordinate the activities of the various bodies concerned. and i shall offer it for that purpose. for the information of senators. the amendment will be at the desk. i thank my colleague.
. i am puzzled by what the senator says about the ofcc. the senator is an excellent lawyer. and he has used the word "actions". but the operative provision in his amendment is the word "remedy."  "actions." therefore. it seems to me that he would cut off the right of the individual to complain to the federal contract compliance. which an individual  has a right to do and to generate that kind of remedy. that is what we claim. we do  claim that the office of federal contract compliance will be cut off. but we claim that the individual will be cut off from traveling that route and seeking that remedy. by using the word "actions." i would  wish it to seem that the argument changes the amendment.
. the purpose of this amendment is to make the chairman of the u.s. civil service commission a member of the equal employment opportunity coordinating council. the idea being that. as we are introducing the civil service commission into this legislation. the highest official of that commission ought to be a member of the coordinating council which is established under this bill.
. i invite the attention of senators to the anncement by the u.s. postal service that a 14cent postage stamp hoing fiorello h. laguardia will be issued in new york on april 24. 1972. i ask unanimous consent that the release issued on this matter be printed in the record.
. i am very much pleased that the senate passed the national guard technicians retirement bill. s. 855. yesterday. may 3. the total of over 3.000 national guardsmen. and their families. in the state of new york. are rejoicing. they have been faithful and justly deserve the equality this measure provides. i have always felt that the national guard technicians deserved full retirement benefits for the period prior to their being accepted and declared civil service employeesin yesterday. the senate made this promise a reality and rectified the injustice. i hope the house of representatives will do likewise.
i will - take too long. but i do have a very important matter to discuss which relates to the city of new york. it will be ed. . as the senator from alaska has already ed. that various arrangements are contemplated by this conference report. with the city of new york respecting a very large facility to be installedwhich is mentioned in the report as if it were going to be installedby the u.s. postal service at a location referred to as the "morgan annex site." this has been a very highly controversial proposition. and there has been much debate between the junior senator from new york. senator buckley. and myself. as well as the representative from the area. mrs. abzug. with the u.s. postal service. respecting the propriety and desirability of building on this site. or on an alternate site which is two city blocks away.
i wanted to make the point that i believe that in the interests of the city of new york. as to whether. in fairness and common decency. an opportunity should be given to the general accounting office to file its report. which is in process. so that the postal service and all of us may k whether this is truly the best deal for the united states. taking into consideration all the factors which i have just mentioned i shall ask a question of the manager and the ranking member in that regard
i thank the senator from colorado for his helpful intercession. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter written by myself. my colleague from new york. and congresswoman aszua on march 8. to the director. office of policy and program planning of the general accounting office requesting a comparative cost analysis of the morgan annex site and an alternative. site. also. a second letter from senator buckley. mrs. abzug and me written on march 29 to the postmaster general expressing our concern over plans to build at morgan annex and requesting that a final decision  be made until first. the gao report was received and second. signed statements were obtained from the six involved new york city agencies presenting their views on the morgan annex site.
. it seems to me that that is a legitimate condition. considering the fact that this is government property and it is to our own interest  to have our fishing fleet interfered with. personally. i see objection to the amendment as modified.
s johnson and nixon. mr. wager has made a substantial contribution to the nation during his 7 years of public service to ur subcommittee. during that time he has served both the miity and the majority with great distinction on a bipartisan basis. senator percy and i will miss his blend of competence and dedication and we wish him well in his new career.
 the problem with all these operations is that the people who work for you have to have some concept that it has some continuity. undoubtedly. with many young lawyers attracted to the operation of public service law. we are going to have lawyers some of whom are careerists and some of whom are undertaking it for a reasonable period of time. i believe that senator nelson has properly made the point that this remains within our power to terminate at any time by denying appropriations. as to the question of turning over authority to the committee on appropriations. we turn over a great deal of authority to them. anyhow. even within these authorizations. aher point that should be raised in this connection is that the provision of one of the sections of our bill is rather important in this regard. i invite attention to section 1007(g). at page 21.
. i spoke on this subject earlier today. i merely wish to add to what i have said. a point which came to my mind as i heard the debate develop further on the question of the implications of gover wallaces vote in indiana. it was considered to be a very clever maneuver by gover wallace to expose his candidacy to a kind of plebiscite. which. like the mail that was coming in to us at one time very heavily against civil rights and against the proposed legislation  before the senate. from people who chose to write. was taken by some people as some evidence of public sentiment. i  offer the hope that voters may be informed. particularly those who. for reasons which are sufficient to them. do  care to vote. that as long as this subject has been exposed in this way. and as long as the results are being interpreted as having some influence on what people believe. in the coming primary election in marylandand i have intention of telling people what they should do therethey may wish to come out and express themselves on this issue. if gover wallace wishes to interpret the vote as an indication in the way that he does. the great majority of the voters should bear in mind the deduction which is being made from the primary elections. and should express themselves in the most decisive way possible. just as. apparently. the miity is doing at this time.
i just wish to join the senator in expressing my support for this bill. and to congratulate those who have been active in developing it. including the senator himself. . i think each of us is acutely aware of the strains of the continuing effect of the spiraling postal costs on books and other cultural materials accessible to the general public. i support s. 411. as i k that if the rates are allowed to rise unchallenged. it would mean the demise of many important publications in our nation which cover the business. religious. agricultural and other groups. every effort should be made to counteract these increasing and disabling costsour country must encourage the dissemination of information and ideas and this should  be threatened by bankruptcy or a foldup of any major part of the publishing industry. in new york state. where the publishing and directmail industries are heavily concentrated. certainly they will ultimately suffer. for example. the demise of both life and look cost much in public information and thousands of jobs. because these huge publications were forced to give up following the postal boost in secondclass rates which went into effect in 1971. increasing the number of years for the annual phasingin process is the relief here sought. and i join in support of s. 411.
. the deficiency in the argument which has just been made about this matter is twofold: first. there is just as big if  a bigger claim of inaccuracy in the orshansky formula. because the claim is that over 5 million of the poor have  been counted. if you lay that side by side with 16 or even 20 percent of the afdc children. you get a much lesser figure. there are estimated to beif my memory serves me correctlysomewhere near 7 million or 8 million afdc children in the country of all ages. the other point is that the author of the amendment himself had to crank in the afdc children. he had other choice because the orshansky formula count comes from the census every 10 years and does  show the regional differences in the cost of living. it is  a moving index. which we certainly would have a right to expect over a span of 10 years. this bill is only for 4 years. so we can have it both ways. if we want to crank in the afdc children. because that is the fair thing to do. then crank in all the afdc children. as i understand the scotthathaway amendment. it would eliminate the escalating factor. that is critically important especially if we want to equate it with the orshansky formula. the orshansky formula does  crawl up. it is shifted every 10 years. whereas under the way in which the senator from arkansas has loaded the afdc factor. it does crawl up. depending on the increases in the cost of living. reducing constantly the number of afdc children. and therefore worsens the formula in terms of its rigidity over what it is  under his amendment. so for all those reasons. i think this amendment is a very fair and proper one. following exactly the principle which had to be accepted. we could  do it any other way. but at least. if we go that way in terms of principle. then let us go the way the principle dictates. but do  suddenly abort it by making it twothirds instead of 100 percent. which is what the scotthathaway amendment is trying to do. to try to bring the formula back to some kind of relationship to principle. this amendment should be adopted.
. i would like an opportunity. as this relates to procurement in the billions of dollars. to take a look at the amendment overnight. if the senator would be kind egh to give us an opportunity to do that. and then i will undertake to let the senator k if for any reason i have any objection. for myself. i would like to look at it. this is an amendment with very serious consequences to many states.
 truman signed the federal property and administrative services act of 1949 which created the general services administration. this independent agency was formed to consolidated government procurement policy and bring greater efficiency and savings to the federal governmnet. in the intervening years. broader. and additional responsibilities were assigned to it until today. in a very real sense. it is the marketing and business arm of the federal government. during the past 25 years gsa has accepted its challenge of doing the governments business with vitality and dedication. while gsa has been involved in controversy. because of its efforts. respect in this agency has grown over the years with its size and responsibility. i extend my congratulations to the past and present gsa employees who have contributed to the fine reputation which gsa so rightfully deserves. on this commemorative occasion i ask unanimous consent to print in the record the following speech delivered by arthur f. sampson. the very able administrator of general services administration.
. on october 10. 1974. at tarrytown. n.y.. the u.s. postal service will issue the "legend of sleepy hollow" postage stamp. washington irving. the author of this legend. was born in new york city. i am very proud that the stamp will be issued at th tarrytown. n.y.. the setting of the sleepy hollow story. and near irvings home. "sunnyside" at irvingtothehudson. this is truly timely. in that the village of th tarrytown is celebrating its centennial this year. new yorkers are proud that this stamp will be issued in our state. and i want to share with my colleagues in the senate the anncement of this issue by the postal authorities. i ask unanimous consent to have the anncement printed in the record.
second. i believe it is very clear that when we add funds to title i of this bill. that is currently to the job training phases which can also be used for public service employment. we do it in order to free that money from the restraints of title ii which are conditioned upon 6.5 percent for 3 months unemployment rate.  on the contribution to the basic policy of our cointry that can be made by public service employment. extracted from his remarks to that summit. may be made part of the record.
one has to make a distinction between the money for training and the money for public service jobs. i agree with the senator that the money for training needs to be piped into a pipeline. which is a much slower operation.
 but i would like to make the point before he does. he proposed it and i joined with him and he should take the lead in respect to the suggestion made. and he will. but i would like to just follow what senator cotton said. that the proponents of the amendment specify whatever we may do. what they expect will go into public service employment out of this additional amount out of title i. because that is the reason we made it. title i. that is the only title that has the flexibility. i believe if we make the statement on the floor. that will have a very considerable effect. i might point out in that regard. it is almost selfdictating. because i think we would all agree with the $20 million under title iii relating to the opportunities industrialization centers. et cetera. so whatever sum we did agree on. if we do. the remainder should go. and be understood to go. to public service employment.
. i support this urgently needed legislation. which will remove from the federal regulatory structure of the international airline industry a few of the unfair and discriminatory practices thathave placed that industry in tremendous financial .jeopardy. these practices must be eliminated if our domestic international airlines are to have any chance of surviving against* the subsidized competition of foreign carriers. moreover. as we all k. the remedial action provided by this bill is needed immediately by pan am. which has been most adversely affected by the inequitable existing structure and which is on the brink of financial disaster. i want to make it clear that this bill is neither a government handout  a panacea for pan ams problems.  a single -provision of this bill would give to pan am or other domestic international carriers any federal assistance that it does  rightfully deserve. there is raid on the federal treasury in this bill. the sole provision that would affect federal expenditures relates to the rates for transportation of u.s. mail in foreign transportation. yet this section gives more to the carriers of u.s. mail than what is cost justified. that is. it merely eliminates the present system that results in domestic airlines carrying u.s. mail at rates considerably less than their actual costs. it is common kledge that airline costs. primarily fuel but also other necessary expenses. have risen dramatically in the past year. pan ams fuel bill alone has increased an astounding $200 million from 1973 to 1974. our airlines can do very little to alleviate that situation. it is fault of their own. yet the rate received for carrying mail has  nearly kept up with these cost increases. essentially and ironically. the airlines have been subsidizing the u.s. postal service. it is time the civil aeronautics board ended this practice and retroactively restored the real costs already lost this. bill does hing more than mandatethe prompt termination of a less than cost mail route. . . as isaid. is this bill.a solution to all of pan ams difficulties. pan .am has a very rocky road in the months ahead throughout which it must exercise vigorous and cooperative action of the civil aeronautics board. the department of transportation and of course pan am itself to come through this difficult period as a.viable and successful american international carrier. much more needs to. -be done by the relevant federal agencies. and- it must be accomplished without any delay.. i. fully support the department of transportations sevenpoint -plan for- action to improve the profitability of interna-. tional air carrier operations. taken together. -i believe the abtions contained within it would put pan am back in the black. afid without one single bent of taxpayer assistance. some of the more flagrant abuses that demand urgent attention include tariff violations by foreign carriers that have been estimated to cost. pan am at least $25 million a year in lost passenger revenue. export .import bank financing of foreign aircraft purchases. and the cabs steadfast refusal to grant to pan am any.. d9mestic connections which it desperately. needs to attractpassengers for its internatbnal operations. " i call upon dot and the cab to take immediate. action with regard to these and other inequities: the 32.000 employees of pan am can abide any delay. they need the" gbvernments help  and they deserve our urgent attention.
.  to congress. it is  very long and it is worth reading. at least an excerpt from it. which appears at page 47 on this matter. it states as follows: a general accounting office evaluation of the public services provided with eea money cited examples of parks. libraries. and other public facilities which remained open for longer hours. much more police on the streets in highcrime areas. and of increased staffing for overworked departments. in many cases. the report stated. staff cutbacks were avoided by designating the new hires for old job openings. perhaps the best criteria for judging the usefulness of the positions created under pep are the feelings of the workers and supervisors involved in the program. reports from both regular and highimpact programs indicated that most employees feel their jobs were fulfilling public service needs. in addition. most supervisors indicated a high level of satisfaction with their pep employees. ranking them as generally better than average in their work habits and efficiency when compared with government employees. i ask unanimous consent that the table which accompanies this report showing the division of public service employees as of  as showing the highest number in public works and transportation. the next highest number in education. and the next highest number in law enforcement. all critically important categories of work as far as we are concerned. be included in the record at this point.
. edwin thomas booth was widely ackledged to be the greatest actor in america during the 19th century. his performances brought booth international acclaim and helped establish the proud tradition of american theater. i believe it would be fitting during our bicentennial year for the postal service to issue a stamp commemorating booths great contributions which have had such a profound impact upon american theater .arts. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to the postmaster general and a biographical sketch of booth be printed in the record.
. when questioned about matters to which reference has been made in this debate. including righttowork laws. situs picketing and public sector collective bargaining. he made it very clear that he would follow the policy of the administration as long as he is secretary of labor. and that he would faithfully voice that policy before congress. for example. when questioned by senator laxalt concerning common situs picketing legislation he stated: i do  visualize coming back before this committee or any committee with a common situs bill. certainly  in this congress. one ks. however. what the future will be like. he did that on each particular issue raised at the hearing. separating his own views. whatever they might be. from what he would do as a loyal official of an administration. the policies of which he is bound to follow or resign. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the confirmation hearing record directed specifically to matters which have been debated today be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to send an amendment to the desk which relates to encouraging the procurement by small business. which simply calls for a report. that the amendment may be in order. and immediately to be followed. if disposed of within the 2 minutes. by senator bartletts amendment.
. it is my understanding that the bill will allow aid to set aside a portion of the ecoic assistance procurement for contract awards to small businessmen and miity businessmen. according to sba statistics. in fiscal year 1975 aid provided only 5.73 percent of its total federal contract dollars as setasides for small businessmen. it is my hope that the small business committee will hold hearings on this matter to insure that small businessmen and miity businessmen receive a fair proportion of federal contracts under aid. in the interim. i am offering this amendment to section 306 of the act.
. the middecade census legislation. s. 3688. could have a great effect on new york state and the theast if passed in its present form. as reported. the bill provides for a middecade census and an annual update of census figures for use in federal programs where population is a factor. i have serious disagreement with the part of the bill providing for a middecade census especially since i understand this census will  just be a compilation of total population figures but will also include population characteristics such as poverty population. number of aged and disabled. and similar groups. this factor of population characteristics is an extremely important one in areas such as new york state which are often discriminated against in the application of funding formulas. we would always receive more based on need than we would based on population alone since we do have a great number of people who fall in the poverty category or in the aged category. thus we start behind in most cases before getting into the issue of updated census figures. obviously any new census figures which do  take into account population characteristics could have a severe impact on the amounts of money received by new york and the theast generally under a great number of federal programs. however. if the middecade census will include population characteristics we would have substantial objection to it. on the other hand. the annual update provisions of the bill present a much different question. i can support an annual update provision which does  allow for a report of population characteristics for the reasons i have enumerated above. since i understand it would be very difficult to do this in an annual update situation i have opposed this portion of the bill. further. i do  believe it is necessary to put this annual update procedure into the law since i understand that the office of management and budget in its circular a46 has requested federal agencies to use the most recent population data that may be available. this should meet the objections of many who feel more current data is needed without enactment of statutory law in the area. my amendment addresses the concerns i have ed by deleting section 13 of the bill which requires the director of omb to insure that the annually updated figures are used in federal grant and aid programs and by changing section 8 of the bill to provide for the production of current data on population and population characteristics for major governmental areas. to the extent feasible. i believe that by  mandating the use of annually updated figures in federal programs but providing that this updated information be gathered if possible the concerns of the fastgrowing areas will be met and also the concerns of the theast and other similar areas will be satisfied. i appreciate senator stones willingness to work out this matter in a way which deals with the concerns of both of our states.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record of todays proceedings copies of letters i sent to chairman muskie in december 1976 and january of this year. as well as the report of the national council on employment policy. which has endorsed the call for 1 million public service jobs.
i think that is very desirable because i think. if i read the feeling of the senate. we desire to adopt the code of ethics. i think we wish to adopt. generally speaking. this code. but i think members wish to have before them some basic background concerning the proposal. remember we spent long days and nights. with a tremendous amount of work on this. i am rather sympathetic with. for example. senator durkin. i think we ought to wait with our amendments and everything until we have laid out the plan to be followed with the concepts we had. the code must  only provide for full financial disclosure but also certain restrictions and certain restraints. i also say. if i may make this suggestion. that we have some very basic issues of principle contained in the code. for example. very strong statements about conflict of interest. this is our own home. we will have a committee on ethics. that committee will decide whether what a member. officer. or employee is doing shows an attitude or course of conduct to the outside world which is incompatible with the performance of his duty here in the senate. i beg members to bear that in mind. the underlying foundation of the code is the power of the ethics committee to arraign anyone for a violation of the code of conduct. even if it is  specifically included in this particular code. which is incompatible in a serious way with his responsibilities as a senator. officer. or employee. a that has two points to it. first. it is ah ultimate protection. that is. in this particular case we do have a rather open mandate with respect to our conflict of interest section. which is general. second. members should k how to conduct themselves. and that is where we try to be as specific as possible. i would hope. therefore. that members would hear the whole debate carefully. and study it. and. even if we delayed a day or two in getting to the finite detail. a grasp of what we were trying to do and how we were trying to do it with regard to the members. including the residual safeguards to which i refer. these include. i think. a very democratic procedural safeguard as to how the members should be charged. i think that it is essential before we get into the details of it. that members have the whole rationale before them and i think the members will be less inclined to get into detail as to this specific or that specific word.
. i am rather pleased that i arrived in the chamber at this particular moment. i should like to express my agreement with senator kennedy. i am the ranking miity member of the committee which deals with education. and i support very strongly our conclusions. if there is one thing we have  learned adequately in this country as compared with other societies. it is how to deal with the need of the 15 percent. that is one thing we have  yet licked. the big things they consider vital to them are equal opportunity and education.  we have a big agitation about merit as to earning scholarships. and so forth. it seems to me that to go this route is very attractive. most of my constituents love it. my mail is emous. but i k it is  right for america. it is regrettable. but i feel. therefore. that i shall vote against the amendment.
. the senate should k that we have discussed a number of matters which are susceptible of resolution if a time agreement is arrived at for voting on the bill. these issues are the following: first. the duration of the bill. second. the authorization for appropriations. third. the provision in the bill which relates to how privately donated funds may be used. fourth. the assurances from my colleague the senator from wisconsin respecting oversight areas. fifth. the isue of what is to be the role of socalled backup centersthat is. centers for research. technical assistance. and so forthand the effort to limit those to that function. rather than having them as some seed bed for broadscale public service litigation. i sixth. the issue of initiation of organizations. there. the intention is. if this works out. to stay with the present law. rather then to undertake the new amendments we have. also. we have agreed that on a number of issues in which we could  come to agreement. we would have votes. and the senator from utah has named specifically the following in respect of votes-
. about the backup centers. as i understand the agreement. the staff is to work out language. so we might as well specify it. which will make it clear that backup centers are to be used solely for research. training. and technical assistance. and as a clearinghouse for information and will  engage in broadscale efforts to build up public service cases.
. i am fully aware that this bill will  cure all of the ills of the postal service. indeed. there are general provisions that i believe need to be discussed in detail by my colleagues on the governmental affairs committee during hearings on this bill. thus. i would like to stress that while i support the purposes of this bill. i am  committed to its every provision. i will consider carefully the testimony presented during committee hearings. and remain open to suggestions. amendments or modifications that would help make this a better bill. i am. however. committed to enacting legislation during this session of congress. the public needs a postal service that is reliable and is  unduly costly. the house passed a postal reform bill in april. and i hope sincerely that my colleagues also will approve a bill so that the postal service can get on with the task of improving its service and minimizing its financial problems.* by mrs. humphrey (for herself and mr. bayth) :
. i regret very deeply that this amendment eliminates postal service children. i made quite a fight for that in the committee. i believe it is eminently justified. it is a fact. it was eliminated in the house. it is a fact. senator eagleton has consulted us. i realize the situation in terms of voting. so i. too. most regretfully as to that provision.  as to the rest of it. am prepared to accept the amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent on behalf of senator stevens of alaska that in connection with the consideration of the civil service reform bill carl flair and jamie cowan. of the government affairs committee staff. be accorded the privilege of the floor.
so the managers are  prepared to explain the rationale. they are simply relying upon the fact that these amendments have been accepted by the civil service commission. is that correct. the civil service commission is the employer. for practical purposes. is it . has any effort been made to get labors view on these amendments.
and you can strike against the federal government. so. if you work for the federal government. you give up something. you may strike illegally. as the postal workers are threatening to do. but that is true of any law. it can be broken and punishment and reaction must follow. the united states has laws favoring union organization or. at least making it possible under the propriety of law. is it  a fact that. under this free speech amendment. an individual manager. speaking personally. could say that he does  like unions and he does  think they are a very good idea and he does  think that they will do anybody who joins them any good. that would still be within the purview of this amendment. would it .
