. i am pleased that the senate will  turn to adoption of the conference report to accompany h.r. 1451. the reauthorization of the older americans act. this legislation demonstrates our nations commitment to programs which assist elderly individuals to lead independent and productive lives. i am pleased to join senator matsunaga. chairman of the subcommittee- on aging and senator cochran. the ranking miity member. and other members in a conference agreement which reflects a dedication to enhancing programs and services that perpetuate the selfsufficiency of our nations elderly citizens. with passage of the older americans act in 1965. congress created several new federal programs specifically designed to meet the social service needs of elderly americans in such areas as transportation. employment. home health care. counseling. adult day care. information and referral. and nutritional services. to address these needs. the programs authorized by the older americans act to assist elderly individuals to preserve their independence and thus avoid reliance on costly outofhome residential care were strengthened in this reauthorization. in particular. i am pleased that provisions have been included to address the needs of a growing population of elderly individuals with disabilities to ensure that programs and services carried out under this act can be better coordinated and expanded to meet the unique needs of this population. in order to foster greater interaction between professionals in both the developmental disabilities system and the aging network. authority has been added to enhance research and training regarding the needs of elderly individuals with disabilities. in addition. the ombudsman program. created to facilitate the resolution of complaints made by or on behalf of residents of longterm care facilities. and the protection and advocacy agencies which exist to advocate for clients rights and to investigate incidents of abuse and neglect will  begin to interact with both the developmental disability and aging systems to assure that quality services are provided to those residing in longterm care facilities. i believe we have a responsibility to the elderly of this nation to ensure that they are  deprived of their dignity and independence by unnecessary and costly reliance on institutional care. to meet this responsibility congress has expanded the availability of needed health. social and nutritional services. and creating a new emphasis on meeting the needs of the disabled elderly. the older americans act programs have provided the foundation for a partnership among federal. state. and local governments and communities to meet the needs of the elderly. this reauthorization is a credit to both senator matsunaga and senator cochran. i believe the conference report before the senate today will enhance the ability of elderly americans to continue to live independently. and i therefore urge its passage.
