e. . i ask that three articles on the emong people and their ordeal be printed in the rzcord. the articles follow: [from lime. sept. 14. 1981] yellow r&msoviet chemwcal warartz american intelligence experts have long suspected that chemical poisons developed in the soviet union have been used in military operations in afghanistan. laos. and cambodia. eyewitnesses in all three countries have reported seeing "yellow rain" fall from the sies. shortly afterward. victims on the ground have suffered burning sensations. convulsions and massive internal bleeding. many have died painful deaths. still. there had never been scientfic evidence that the poison came from the soviet union. so the u.s. has withheldany official accusation of soviet violations of a 86yearold international agreement banning chemical weapons. time has learned that in at least one instance. the use of a soviet chemical agent has been proved beyond any scientific doubt. the site of the offense. by vietniames troops. was in cambodia. military patrols from thailand gathered samples of foliate. soil and water from cambodia% and sent them to the u.s. for analysis. the state department. in turn. sent the samples to private american laboratories without revealing the source of the evidence or why it was to be examined. the civilian seientists found that the samnplea contained the chemical agent trichothecane toxin. kn as t.. soviet scientists have published articles on how to mass produce t.. which occurs naturally in grain molds common in the soviet union. the t. connection was first made by writer sterling seagrave. who presents a persuasive circumstantial case of the soviet violations in his forthcoming book "yellow rain.* seagrave interviewed victims of chemical attack. in southeast asia. yemen and afghanistan. as well as the doctors who treated them. in afghanistan soldiers fighting the soviet invaders told him about being attacked by rockets fired from helicopters. the rockets released a "yellowishibrown" cloud that caused victims to "die quickly. vomiting blood and fouling their clothes.the state department in still reluctant to level public accusations at the soviet union. some officials would like to do so on the humane grounds that public disolosure might prevent further use of the poison and avoid more such deaths in both southeast asia and afghanistan. more cautious u.s. officials prefer to await similar verification1 that the chemiceal has been used in both laos and afghanistan. that may  be long in coming. at least three mere sampls of the wellow powder produced by the "yellow rain* are under study in private u.s. laboratories. if those tests lead to the same conclusions. the state department presumably wi make the detils public and then make more formal chtarges against the soviet union. [from the readers digest. september 19011 tiasoxo lzoacv from laos (by jane hamiltonmerritt) last october. in "gas warfare in laos: com"munisms drive to annihilate a people.. readers digest told a horrifying story of modernday geide. zane hamiltonmerritt. a ~tporterphotographer and ph. d. in asian studies. disclosed the extermination by poison gas of thousands of hmong. a fiercely independent tribal miity in laospeople who had formed the backbone oct a u.s.supported guerrilla resistance against comnmunist forces during the vietnam war. in the following article uhe describes what has happened since. and whattragicallyhas . longer can the gassing of the h1mong be considered a faraway problem in southeast jasia.  the problem ts here. on our own doorstep. among the hmong refugees who have settled throughout the united states. in the live years i reported on refugees in thern: thailand. i heard countless detailed accounts of poisongas attacks by the sovietbacked laovietnamese. regime on hmong villagesand of the deadly results. in 1980. there were an estimated 800.000 hmong in laos.0 today. some 100.000 are either in thai refugee camps or resettled in western countries. including about 40.000 who have come to the united states since 1976. a number of refugee experts fear that fewer than 100.000 are salve in laos. many died of starvation. but thousands were killed by gas attacks. which still continue. i crisscrossed america recently. interviewing hmong refugees. and i discovered a new dimension to their story of terror. one hmong leader estimates that of those who have arrived here. about 20.000 may have been exposed to the "poisos rains" of chemical warfare. many are chronically illbecauise of the gassings. they believe. they complain of pulmonary problems. constant headaches. painful muscles and joints. eye and hearing disorders. medical and publichealth personnel who have worked with the hmong are persuaded that their infantmortality rate is high and that a large percentage suffer from cancer. more frightening. in the last few years in the united states. at least 35 young hmong men and women have succumbed to a mysterious sudden death that occurs during sleep. the centers for disease control in atlanta have confirmed that 20 of these deaths are indeed unexplainable. (the other 18 were insufficiently documented.) studies made in portland. ore.. a large himong resettlement area. show the hmong doath rate to be five times that of the lao population. some of the heartbreaking cases i have witnessed: a woman on the west coast. age 49. auffers from constant. terrible headaches. her husband has pain in all his muscles. they have three children. the other eight were killed in gas attacks or in fighting. a 83yearold man lives in a rundown apartment in a midwest otly. he moves slowly and has obvious difficulty breathing. "if i stand up or asi. down fast. i faint." he says. in a housing project. also in the midwest. a 24yearold man suffers from heavy coughing and shortness of breath. and complains. "after the gassing. my mind is slower." these are the survivors. the lucky ones. but also the pathetic. lonely victims of chemical warfare. "few americans k who we are. what we did (or the united states during the vietnam war." says one young hmong man. "many think we are vietnamese or boat people. many of us still suffer from being gassed. but american doctors either dont believe us when we try to tell them or never ask us about our life in laos." "why arent americans concerned about the gassing." the hmong ask. the answer. in large part. les with the u.s. state departments position that "conclusive evidence" exists that gassing is occurring in laos. consider the state departments response under both the carter and reagan administrations to those who have asked about the gassing of the hmong. the letter. still being mailed out as this article went to press. fails to ackledge the hmong as u.s. allies. it presents instead the pathet lao (commu*all population figures are approximate. as precise information is unavailable. niat) governments propaganda. without comment or explanation: "the lao government has used a combination of persuasion and force to bring the hmong out of their highland homes to new settlements in the lowlands. the los government argues that the limong method of agriculture destroys valuable hardwood forests. laos principal natural resource. the lao also argue that. by bringing the hniong population to the lowlands. the government can better limit the production of opium. a principal limong crop. which supplies the heroin markets of the world through illicit channels." those unfamiiiar with laos could infer from this offcial letter that the hniong were wretched traffickers of heroin and conclude that gassing might be their just deserts. to be sure. the hmong did grow opium poppies--opium has long been used medicinally by many tribal groups in southeast asia. but kmong tribespeople do  convert poppy sap into heroin or traffic it through the illicit drug channels of the world. anyone who has studied the hmong. fromn u.s. drug enforcement agency investigators to onthescene diplomats. ks that these people are  involved in the heroin business. "associating the hmong with heroin is a part of the big lie." says former u.s. ambassador to laos 0. mcmutie godley. the state department letter continues: ..by 1978. the united states had egh information to bring the matter lot chemical warfarel to the attention of the government of laos. which denied the validity of the reports. we received the same response when we asked the soviet and vietnamese governments to look into the reports and end the practice if true. did our government really expect the lao. vietnamese or soviet governments to ackledge the use of chemical warfare--a practice banned by international treaty and abhorred by most of the world. eyewitness testimony. a 1980 state department publication. "country reports on human rights practices." says of laos: "during the past three years there has been limited improvement in some aspects of human rights. there is evidence that the government is seeking to destroy any particular ethnic group. per as. such as the hmong. there have been numerous refugee accounts of attacks using lethal chemical agents against the hmong. . .. this charge has been denied by the lao government." that is the only reference to the use of chemical agents in the entire section on laos.  surprisingly. gen. vang pao and other leaders of the hmong community in this country are appalled by the report. "there has been overwhelming evidence of the gassing of men. women and children in laos for years." says the general. "yet the state department  only avoids the subject but doesnt recognize the fact that my people are being eliminated because we were the u.s. allies in laoe." while the stats department keeps telling the inquiring pubic. including members of congress. that there is "conclusive evidenice." it fails to mention its own recently prepared report. which records the testimony of scores of eyewitnesses to chemical attacks in laos. documenting over 18.000 dead from gassing. and if that. were  egh. evidence is  available from the communist side itself. for example. last ember. a pathet lao pilot who defected to thailand admitted flying numerous gas missions between 1976 and 1978 to "cause the hmong people to die out completely. he adds that pilots flying these missions were granted special privileges and were closely monitored by doctors and nurses af ter each miasion. will the reagan administration continue to ho the avoidthehmong policy s 9416 w21 generated during the carter years. in a meeting with several members of the foreign diplomatic corps. john holdridge. newly appointed assistant secretary of state for asian and pacific affairs. said that the united states has evidence to bring to "court" on the reported gassing in laos. yet. human and moral considerations aside. the chemical agents used against the defenseless hmong should be of considerable nationalsecurity. concern to the united states. the fact is we dont k what these agents are. even defense department experts are baffled. victims suffer from profuse bleeding from the e. throat. eyes. stomach and intestinesresulting in death by hemorrhaging. recently. i spoke with 0o1. charles w. lewis. m.d.. a member of the department of army surgeon generals team sent to thailand in 1979 to interview survivors of chemical attacks in laos. i asked what chemhicals he thought could be causing such profuse bleeding. "thats what i want to k." he said. "i hope someone is working on finding out. nerve agents dont cause hemorrhaging. these are all new symptoms. when i returned from this investigation. i talked to people in the chemicalwarfare business and one knew. everyone was surprised. we had better find out in order to be able to defend against them." in early december 1980. the u.n. general assembly by at vote of 7817 adopted a resolution calling for a u.n. investigation into the use of chemical warfare in various parts of the world. among those votingr against the resolution were laos. vietnam. afghanistan. the soviet union and cuba. however. the project appears to be on the back burner. and in any case. laos can reject u.n. requests for onsite investigations. "sudden death."~ meanwhile. the gassing attacks against the hmong continue. hmong who crossed into thailand in february 1981 reported that between january 6 and 20. 1981. sovietmade helicopters flew 20 chemical missions. killing 1.260 h~mong friendly to the pathet lao. on april 2. 1981. a soviet m17 dropped yellow chemicals on ban thong hak. killing 24 hmong outright. including 11 children. two weeks later. a hmong party reached thailand with sm_ ples of the chemical residue gathered from stones. ground and leaves. the samples were given to u.s. authorities on april 23 but didnt arrive in the united states until the second week of may. under the best of circumsitances. a chem-. ical analysis is difficult. experts say that. since gas disappears into the atmosphere. samples gathered from an exposed area may  contain any identifiable lethal properties. incredibly. there is u.s. team of chemnicalwarfare experts in thailand to conduct clithespot analysis. the hmong in this country continue to suffer as well. in early 1991. the u.s. press picked up on the mysterious "sudden death"s syndrome. and some publichealth personnel became interested. but the interest is limited only to the sudden deaths. according to the centers for disease control. there is nationally coor.inatsd plan to study the problem of the chronically ill hmong who believe they are sick because of the gassings. on the other hand. richard harruff. a doctor with special training in pathology who spent six months last year in a hmong refugee camp in thailand.. is concerned about the longrange effacts of the lethal agents used on the hmong. according to dr. harruffs research on survitors who were exposed. "males complain of impotence and females report a high rate of spontaneous abortions. infants born to exuosed mothers ae often very. weak and lethargic. and die within a few days to. months of apparent respiratory failure. these victims of unkn poisons need special care." harruff is outraged that one in the
