. and congressin connecticut. west virginia. and across the country. . according to the temper of the times. we are going to put a little amendment to the cons itution saying that we will all vote. how do you think anything is going to change. the way people are going to vote is if we get good men and women running. if we have a simplified political process in which all can share in the selection of candidates. get it out of the smokefilled rooms. get it to the american people. we are  going to accomplish it by saying that we will all vote. yet. that voting is absolutely key to everything else that issues therefromeverything. the united states is only going to be as good as the men and women who run it. right . with only a few people voting. the emphasis is on mediocrity so far as the humanity of politics is concerned. and if that is the case. we are going to have mediocrity with the government of the united states and everything this government does. would it make everybody feel good. do you want to feel good. let us have a little amendment saying we will all vote. let us write it in the constitution: we will all vote. does it make you feel good. do you think one more person is going to vote than voted last week or last year.  one. congress wants to balance the budget. so it seeks to write it in the constitution. you will balance the budget by electing men and women who have the guts to stand up here and set their priorities and be willing to speak out for the costs of achieving those priorities. that is the way you balance the budget. you do  balance it by saying. "we are going to balance the budget." you do  get political participation by saying. "we will vote." you are  going to get great religious fervor by mumbling a prayer in school. and so on down the list. there is easy way to excellence or greatness. there just is . i hope that the words of the distinguished senator from west virginia are taken to heart. that people will realize the importance of what is at stake here in terms of their nation. we have had great pressure lately on the floor of the u.s. senate on abortion. because somebody was elected just on the issue of abortion. or somebody was elected just on the issue of school prayer. or somebody was elected on the issue of busing. or just on the issue of balancing the budget. how about the issue of the united states of america. of life in these united states. how about all those issues. instead of just one issue. i think it is terribly important that good men and women come down here. i repeat: i respect the differing points of view as articulated by the distinguished senator from th carolina and others. i am  saying they are wrong. obviously. they are very forceful in their presentation. and very convincing. if a lot of the polls i read are correct. but there had better be aher point of view. and there had better be somebody here to enunciate it. the only time we really get into trouble in this country is when everybody agrees. right . the agreement is an agreement to silence. an agreement to th. easy way out. and that is of concern. i certainly hope that serious attention is paid to this matter by the senate. that we stand up and be counted.
 of the united states. and the countless judges who make up the federal judiciary. therein lies the greatest protection for every one of us. but that was  understood as the debate started on the helmsjohnston amendment. as the debate progressed. slowly but surely. the news media and the editorial writers and the public came to understand that a very basic principle was involved. that it was worth protecting. and that. regardless of what the temperament of the times was about the act of busing. the fact was that we wanted our courts to remain free. that we did  want 100 politicians determining the future for each of the 200 million american citizens. i understand what the polls say on school prayer. everybody is supposed to be sensitive to this. especially those ware running for election. i suppose the poll results in connecticut are  much different from those across the nation. people say. "i would like to have prayer in the public schools." the first thing i want everybody to do. as a matter of the education processand that is  a matter of just educating senators. this body is more than a reflection of what the american people think and feel and speak out onthe first thing we are all going to do is to recognize that the constitution says. right off the crack of the bat. in the first amendment. that congress shall make law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. how many people realize that is in there. but it is in there. and here we are trying to make a law. we need a little careful reading and a little refreshing as to both the constitution and the history of this nation. i do  recall. and i am an episcopalian myself. the archbisop of canterbury being on the mayflower and for good reason. the people who were on the mayflower were fleeing from the archbishop of canterbury. and they came to these shores specifically to get away from a state religion. and in that particular instance the religion of great britain. the state had prohibited the free exercise thereof of their faith. the state was doing in spades what we are starting to nibble away at here in this chamber. so when they wrote the constitution. the words were clearly set forth so that we would never repeat in this nation what those who had founded it had themselves endured. . 200 years have gone by. and we forget the lessons of history and we say to ourselves that is all irrelevant. those things used to happen in the old days. they do  happen any more. maybe we do  stand out there in the middle of main strcot burning people cn a cross. maybe we do  crucify them and pound nails through hands. e of these sort of visible acts of prejudice. of religious mischief. but we do it maybe in more subtle ways as we cut the human spirit upembarrassment. shame. the wariness to speak out for fear of consequence. and i might add we are doing this to the youngest of all of us. we are trying to take ourselves as adult human beings. with our view. with our rationality and with our capacity to reason. and we say to ourselves people can always say to school prayer. but we are attributing all this to 6-. 7-. and 8yearold children. it is weird. again. if you want to violate the constitution and you pass a law with respect to school prayer. please understand. then you have state prayer. state religion. i am  here to go ahead and get religion out of the united states. i think it is one of the great strengths we do have. and the more the better both in terms of religion and those who practice it. i am all for it. i urge it. but i do  want government in religion. and the minute you pass a law. government is in religion. someone turned to me the other day and said. "why do you oppose the tuition tax credit." i said. "number one. i think it is probably unconstitutional. but let us assume we can get over that hump." i said. "you are cutting public education by about 25 percent for ecoic reasons saying we do  have egh money to handle all our needs in the country and while cutting public education 25 percent you are allocating $5 billion for private education." there is commonsense to that. i just do  think we should do it. but then the most important point is that the minute you get to the tuition tax credit you have government into the facility. into the church. if it happens to be a church school. "oh. " the person said to me. "that is  so. in other words. this is merely a tax credit. this is  an outright transferyou k. money being given from a to b rather than a tax credit." i said. "believe me. the tax credit is just the same as if the government gave the church school the money and once government gives the money. then it is given on behalf of all the people of this country and therefore all the people of this country have every right to tell that school what they can or can do." i said. "you who practice the particular"-this person was of a particular faith and was arguing for their particular private school run by that faith"you should be the wariest of all as to what is that is being proposed." the same holds true here. we legislate. we then have a state religion and a state prayer. i would hope that every person of a religious bent. every religious leader in this nation would stand up and tell the senate of the united states to go ahead and do its business but to stay out of theirs. i iced in the newspaper the other day one of the great advocates of school prayer had been interviewed by a group of reporters i will  quote from the new york times of september 4. 1982: people for the american way. a political counterforce to new right groups. says it has yet to find anyone who has made a stronger case against the school prayer amendment than the rev. jerry falwell. founder of moral majority who is an advocate of the constitutional proposal. mind you. this is  a constitutional proposal we have before us. it is a legislative proposal. mr. falwell is quoted as telling a meeting of the religious newswriters association in new orleans that because members of moral majority represented a variety of deinations. "if we ever opened a moral majority meeting with prayer. silent or otherwise. we would disintegrate." asked why this reasoning would  apply in classrooms. mr. falwell said school prayer was .in the intent and mind of the first amendment framers." cal thomas. national director of communications for moral majority. said his group did  open meetings with prayer because it is a political organization that includes jews. catholics. mormons. protestants and some "religious" members. "what kind of prayer would we use." he asks. he says it very well. yet we are supposed to concoct something that apparently is amenable to a group of children and probably amenable only in the sense that they would  understand what it is they are being asked to do. if it is  proper for mature adults. how does it become proper when the only difference in terms of the conditions is the age of those who are reciting the prayert 0 the constitution is meant to apply to all. it is  one consitution for 6-. 7-. and 8yearolds and aher for 30-. 40-. and 50yearolds. that is  the basis of our lives here in this nation. it is  one differentiated as to age in terms of the rights that we hold under the constitution. let me go back in our history. if i might this aftern. to the year 1785 to read: "a memorial and remonstrance against religious assessments" addressed to the hoable general assembly of the commonwealth of virginia. and composed by e other than james madison. who i hardly think falls into the screaming liberal. atheist category. we. the subscribers. citizens of the said commonwealth. having taken into serious consideration a bill printed by order of the last session of general assembly. entitled "a bill establishing a provision for teachers of the christian religion." and conceiving that the same. if finally armed with the sanctions of a law. will be a dangerous abuse of power. are bound as faithful members of a free state. to remonstrate against it. and to declare the reasons by which we are determined. we remonstrate against the said bill.
