. in the firt place i say to the senator from minnesota that i am very much pleased that he did what he did. it would have caused unquestioned confusion in respect to the pending bill if his amendment had been adopted. it would ride across everything we have fought and bled for. and some of us almost died for. on the floor. i should like to have the attention of the chairman of the committee. the senator in charge of the bill. and the senator from ohio . in order to see if we can do something to help with a very trying section of the bill. and perhaps avoid the need for amending it. i call attention to page 34. lines 16 to 18. which read: (3) in paragraph (2) strike out "fraud or misconduct" in the second proviso and substitute "fraud. misconduct. or negligence". it will be ed that it is proposed in the bill to establish additional bases for enabling the united states to defend against claims under the allrisk guarantees which are provided for by the act. the allrisk guarantees could  be vitiated if the person having the benefit of the guarantee were guilty of fraud or misconduct for which that person or corporation was responsible. the words of the statute are clear. they state: provided. furtherthis is section 221(b) (2) of the foreign aid actprovided. further. that payment may be made under this paragraph 2 for any loss arising out of fraud or misconduct for which the investor is responsible. the part of the bill to which i refer proposes to include negligence. so that the new bases of defense would be fraud. misconduct. or negligence. i am advisedand this is borne out by communications to the committee and to methat the purpose of the allrisk guarantee is likely to be vitiated. because the investors who have been investing will  invest if negligence becomes a defense. i will give the reasons for that. the allrisk guarantee which is covered by the law provides for $180 million in guarantees. with certain limitations on the individual. the allrisk guarantee has mainly been used for housing projects in latin america. certainly a most important and constructive aspect of the act. a good deal of this investment has been in housing projects in south america. it is somewhat analogous to our housing agencies or housing authorities. the underwriters of these security issues. the makers of these investments. are mainly banking firms in this country. which have communicated with me as well as the committee. i will tell the whole story to the senate. if these downtown wall street banking firms do  invest. that business will  be done unless the united states puts up its own money. we must understand that we are dealing with the business equation. with businessmen who can invest or  invest. as they choose. and there is hing we can do to compel them. that is why i lay the question directly before the senate. they say that if we add the defense of negligence. they are concerned that they will  be able to be responsible for such loose standards as to third parties. namely. the housing authorities or building and loan and other organizations with which they might be dealing in latin america as everyone ks. negligence relates to the standard of care of a reasonable man. numerous juries are required to determine that question in the united states. hence. the feeling is that if we add to the other definitions. namely. fraud or misconduct. where there has been something willful. something overt. the standard of negligence. we will create a situation in which the terms will become so ambiguous that businessmen will neither invest  underwrite. also. there is grave doubt that the paper which they hold as es or mortgages will be negotiable on the same ground as to be a defense against the holder. i have discussed this question with the drafter of the amendment. the senator from ohio . i gather that he is willing to make certain definitions with regard to this subject. i shall ask him two questions which we have agreed upon. so that the senate may be fully advised. naturally. i am interested in saving the amendment of any of our colleagues who feel in deep good faith that what they propose is desirable. if the committee has adopted the amendment. and if it is possible to save it. i am happy to try to do so. naturally. it is  at all certain that the senate would  take a different position upon argument. debate. and amendment. the questions which i shall ask the senator from ohio to answer will be helpful. i feel. but i can assume that they will be conclusive either upon me or upon the underwriters. the committee of conference will then have to decide as a practical question what it wants to do. if the senator from ohio is willing to answer the questions. i think his responses will be helpful and may prove to dispel the difficulties. i think it is worth trying. i do  wish to question the senator under false pretenses. the first question is: is it a fact. as a matter of legislative history. that the fraud. misconduct. and negligence which are here referred to. in order to be a defense to an allrisk guarantee must be fraud. misconduct. or negligence of the employees. officers. or duly constituted agents of the investor.
