madam piesident. the senator is correct. the comments contained in the editorial are correct. the fact is that it is an easy task. indeed. for power to appeal to the baser emotions that exist in every one of us as human beings and thus translate those baser emotions into that which becomes hysterical. the fact is that each citizen of this country should keep clearly in his or her mind the value of this constitution and  allow any temporary hysteria to go ahead and obviate its value. its particular personal value to them. this is their greatest protection.  senator weicker.  senator helms.  senator ciiafee. but that constitution. we became a nation because a group of men fled from the rule inspired by the baser emotions of men. that is why we became a nation. that is why men fled across the oceans to come here and the safeguards that they set up were  a matter of speculation. they were  something dreamed up out of thin air. why these safeguards. they were put there because they were born of bitter experience. experience where mens prejudice cost mens lives. and i say for my friends in the gallery that first amendment was born of the bitter experience where men and women could  write what was on their minds or in their hearts or if they did. yes. thrown in a corner and forgotten or even worsedeath.  it becomes sort of a light thing to bandy about in libel suits and all the rest of it. but understand the origin of it. it dealt with life itself. never mind the words that were written. and matter how unpopular for the moment the media might become. and it can become unpopular for the moment. that survives. that does  change. and it can change because some senator gets on this floor and says in those suits involving first amendment cases the justice department shall or shall  prosecute. shall or shall * ask for a particular remedy. when this goes you go. if that principle is established. so unlike all of us who have to speculate when we pass the lawyes. we think we are responsive to a particular need as expressed or a particular hope of our constituents. but still it is a matter of speculationthis is speculation.  that constitution. that is speculation. that was born of pretty hard experience. if you think you are smarter than that experience then indeed you do take your life and the life of the nation in your own hands. i wish to read and include in the record at this time the entirety of the leadership conference on civil rights and the letter which has been sent to all senators. the composition. incidentally. of the leadership conference is: hoary chairmen. a. philip randolph. roy wilkins. chairman. clarence m. mitchell. secretary. ard aronson. legislative chairperson. jane ogrady. counsel. joseph l. rauh. jr. the executive committee consists of bayard rustin. chairman. a. philip randolph institute. wiley branton. naacp legal defense and education fund. incorporated. david brody. antidefamation league of bnai brith senator edward w. brooke. national low income housing coalition: jacob clayman. national council of senior citizens. incorporated. douglas a. fraser. international union of united automobile workers. dorothy height. national council of negro women. msgr. george higgins. u.s. catholic conferencedivision of urban affairs. ruth j. hinerfeld. league of women voters of the u.s.. benjamin l. hooks. national association for the advancement of colored people. ronald ikejiri. japanese american citizens league. ver jordan. national urban league. janice kissner. zeta phi beta sorority. iris mitgang. national womens political caucus. gilbert padilla. united farm workers of america: reese robrahn. american coalition of citizens with disabilities. john shattuck. american civil liberties union. elea smeal. national organization for women. rev. leon sullivan. opportunities industrialization centers. j. c. turner. international union of operating engineers. and kenneth young. aflcio.
