. i want to take this opportunity- to commend. the distinguished senator from wisconsin for the work he has done on product liability.. he has been here  for close to 12 years. and throughout that time he has been a staunch advocate. of product liability reforms. i am joining. today with him to reintroduce the product liability reform act. it is my hope that this legislation will. bring some muchneeded- uniformity to the product liability system.. for the benefit of consumers and the wellbeing of our national ecoy. as my colleagues are aware. this subject is  new over the. past 10 years product liability- reform has been the focus of heated debate in the congress. and we. have consideredbut never enacteda variety of comprehensive liability reform.measures. why the fuss. simply put. it is because we have seen an explosion in the number of product liability cases. in the past decade. and this increase has imposed heavy costs--both financial and socialon both. american consumers and the overall u.s. ecoy. these costs must be addressed if the united states is to. maintain the high quality of life of its citizens and the international competitiveness of. its. business sectorlets look at the. current situation with regard to. product liability. in the past decade or so.. the number of state court filings have been estimated to have increased by twofold to. fivefold. at the. same time. the number of federal product liability lawsuits. filed has jumped sharplyby one count. a tenfold increase in the last 15 years. as a result. companies are spending a significant amount of time. money. and resources on defending against lawsuits. furthermore. as the number of tort actions has increased. the cost of insurance likewise- has gone up. the time and money committed to lawsuits--or even the possibility thereofand. insurance have several serious negative ramifications for all. involved. for the manufacturers. muchneeded time and money is being spent on legal actions and insurance. rather. than on the research and development of new products and product improvements. in some cases.. manufacturers are pulling their products from. the shelves altogether. in turn.. the companies actions impact heavily on. consumers. first. the prices that consumers pay for a product often can include a substantial safety tax that goes toward covering the manufacturers litigation costs.. a arge part of these costs is  for payment of legitimate claims. but rather for transaction costs. second. it is clear that as companies forego new production.. americans jobs are lost. in my view. however. even more important than the significant financial costs incurred are the costs in terms. of american ination and creativity. when american creativity is stifled or paralyzed by corporate caution. important new products arent developed.. and our society loses in two ways: competitiv iy and socially. in terms of american competitive ness. the lack of a uniform product liability standard translates into widespread uncertainty among. businesses. such uncertainty prevents companies from making longrange business plans. and breeds excessive corporate timidity with regard. to new initiatives. in turn. this allows foreign competitors a price and an ination advantage in both u.s. and foreign markets. for the nations ecoy. the end result is less manufacturing. less productivity. less ination. and less longterm stability. there- are several examples of inative american products that have been abandoned due to. liability risks. monsanto co. dropped the- planned production of a potential asbestos substitute. dyneet corp. stopped. production of a helicopter clutch as a result of prohibitive insurance rates. as a result of legal costs incorporated. into the product price. some products have become unable to7 compete with foreign brands. for example. insurance has added $75.000 to the cost of every new plane made by piper aircraft. indeed. product liability costs  exceed the total cost of manufacturing of some smal aircraft. i can emphasize egh. however. the particularly high social cost. of unpredictable liability laws. when companies withdraw or raise the price. of socially desirable products from the marketplace because of high legal and insurance costs. we as a society lose an opportunity to improve the quality of our lives. the loss is particularly severe in cases where the product in question is manufactured by very few--or only onecompany. one wellkn.. oftcited example is that of pediatric vaccines. in 1987.. lederle laboratories. the sole manufacturer of diptheria. pertussis. and tetanus [dpt1 vaccines. raised its price per dose from $2.80 to $11.40 to pay. for the legal costs. associated with dpt. that is nearly a fourfold increase in price. only two. other companies. produce diptheria vaccines. and. if lederle were to discontinue dpt vaccines altogether. children would suffer dramatically. likewise-. there is only one producer of the- measles vaccine and that company has stated that the product remains on the- market only because of the companys sense of social responsibility. other worthwhile and important products are being developed only to be. sold or discontinued when it becomes clear that the liability costs could be overwhelming. these products include infant and child car seats. family planning devices. sports safety equipment. and medical equipment. in sum then. given the financial. competitive. and social costs of an unpredictable product liability system. i believe that some reform should take place. the. difficulty lies. however. in determining how we can ensure that consumers are protected from corporate negligence and victims are fairly compensated for their injuries. while inent. manufacturers are prevented from being hit by frivolous or unwarranted lawsuits. in other words. we need. to keep a deterrent value alive. but we have to curb- some of the misusesor outright abusesin the system that are costing all of us dearlythe bill that we are introducing today i believe will take us a step in the right direction. under the meas. ure. a federal uniform product liability standard would be established. in additipn. the bill provides for expedited settlements and alternative dispute resolution. procedures. the bill alsoclarifies who is responsible for product harm and when that responsibility begins and ends. i recognize that there will be a great deal of discussiorabout this bill. and i welcome it. i am hopeful that by the end of this congress.. we will see substantive product liability reform legislation enacted. i. again.. would like to. thank my colleague from wisconsin for his hard work and. tenacity on this issue. he has run up against plenty of stone walls. and i want to express my appreciation to him for his. consistency.. i intend to do what i can and work with him on. this matter.
