 i would like to congratulate the distinguished members of the judiciary subcommittee on immigration. mr. kennedy. mr. simpson. and mr. simon. for their outstanding efforts in reaching an agreement on the immigration act of 1990. i am especially pleased that the conference report to this bill contains the provisions on family unity which are similar to those i originally introduced as an amendment to this bill when it was considered in the senate. i am proud to have been able to contribute on one issue that is of great concern to all americansfamily unity. during debate on the immigration reform and control act of 1986. it became apparent that some members of families would qualify for amnesty while others would . this troubled me because the integrity of the family is the very foundation of american society. there can be loftier objective than to keep husband and wife. and parents and children together. it is clear to me that many of the problems faced by society at large. such as drug and alcohol abuse. teenage pregnancy. rising school dropout rates. and crime are caused. in part. by the weakening of the traditional family structure. as such. i felt is was extremely unfortunate that we might force people to choose between staying in this country. where their future lies. or keeping their families together. therefore. in 1987 i introduced a bill to extend amnesty to spouses and children of those aliens eligible for amnesty under the 1986 legislation. the first effort fell short. however. i came back again in 1989 with an amendment to the current bill to stay the deportation of spouses and unmarried children of legalized aliens who were in the united states prior to ember 6. 1986. this time. my amendment passed by a vote of 6138. the house passed similar language in its own version of the immigration bill. h.r. 4300 this fall. largely as a result of the easy passage of my amendment. the immigration and naturalization service annced a policy in february of 1990 that essentially accomplishes the goal of my amendment. the ins agreed to grant voluntary departure status and work authorization administratively until aliens family members become eligible for visas on their own. the conference report we are considering today would grant permanent residence status to spouses and children of amnesty beneficiaries who were in the united states illegally prior to may 5. 1988. this is even more generous than my amendment in 1989. but is clearly consistent with my efforts in 1987. i applaud the efforts of the conferees for embracing the ion that families should be allowed to live together.
