the senator from missouri has made an extremely significant. important. and helpful statement. and i thank him for it. i was happy to join with him and the majority leader and the senator from wisconsin in expressing our dissent from that part of the pending bill which would appropriate $227 million for the construction phase of this socalled thin antiballisticmissile system. the senator has added important facts as well as the weight of his important opinion and experience on the side. i think. of reason in this controversy. i am confident that before too long we shall persuade the majority of the members of this body and of congress as a wholeand i hope the executive branch and the american peoplethat this  only would be a waste of money and unwise but also would be positively harmful in its effect upon what we hope is a growing possibility of discussions between the united states and russia in regard to the limitation of armaments. both offensive and defensive. as to which the president has expressed such feeling. and we share his hopes and aspirations in this regard. that there can be value. so far as we can see. in this thin system seems clearer all the time. that it can be positively harmful for us to go ahead at this time also seems clearer all the time. that. in itself. should stop us from taking this step. beyond that is the fact that $227 million. plus $300odd milliona net of some $600 millioncould be saved in this fiscal year for purposes at home which are absolutely essential in connection with the rehabilitation of our cities. in connection with the war on poverty. in connection with our effort to bring an endgod ks we must bring an endto the racial troubles we are undergoing at the moment. six hundred million dollars would go a long way toward being helpful in this respect. every day in my office. at the end of the telephone or in correspondence. i have brought to .my attention cities in my home state in which a few hundred thousand dollars may make the difference between a quiet summer and a summer of riots. and this is true all over the country. it is almost a crime to spend these precious resources for something which  only is useless in itself but may even in itself be harmful.
