all right. i thank the senator very much. there are three points to be made in this connection that are the basis for my opposition. by the way. the amendment. which was adopted by a vote of 10 to 3 in the committee. was my amendment. first. the legal services. in terms of redeeming people from the syndrome of poverty through the dignity of having a lawyer. is also symbolic. and that desegregation issue. which bears heavily upon miities and the poor because they live in that kind of area. therefore is a very important aspect. in my judgment and that of many otherssenators eagleton and kennedy already have spokenrespecting the fact that they really do have a lawyer. just as everyone else. for the concerns which are properly theirs. desegregation of the public schools is. of course. a public concern of theirs. so whether there were 50 cases or more. i think that begs the issue. as a matter of fact. i am glad there are  a great many cases. because the primary business of the legal services lawyers takes up much of their time and aggregates many cases. the second point which needs to be made in that connection and which. in my judgment. is very important. is that lawyers are  available for these suits. we have the finding on that. even in the committee report itself. at page 18. where the committee says: information received by the corporation from the naacp legal defense fund and from the mexicanamerican defense fund indicates that requests for representation in school desegregation cases far exceed the number of privately funded civil rights lawyers available to provide it. and this withstanding the civil rights attorneys fees awards act of 1976. senator kennedy was the author of that act. so the point is that lawyers are  available and that. therefore. the poor man should have an equal right with the one who can afford it or is in some organization that can afford it and should be able to get a lawyer. if he feels deeply aggrieved in this connection. last. this section was recommended by the american bar association. to me. that is a decisive point. lewellyn pritchard. who is the chairman of the pertinent committee of the american bar association. testified that the prohibitions on taking desegregation and other cases are "a clear example of the imposition of political considerations on the practice of law." . for all those reasons. i believe that the hands of the legal services corporations should be freed. and that is all we are doing. it is  as to any specific kind of redress. and ody guarantees that any such suit will be won. but simply that the poor man should have the same right as the one better able to take the case into court. that. essentially. was the argument of my colleagues. that. essentially. is my argument. and i believe that is why the committee acted by such a decisive majority. finally. senator nelson says. "i do  think it is going to be in the bill." with all respect. we do  k whether it will or will . the other body chose to lift the prohibition. if this body chooses to lift the prohibition. i shall fight for it in conference. i am  in any way committed to do anything but that. perhaps we will have to rewrite it. or some such thing. one often does. i think the chances are excellent that the bar association prestige and that of the organizations which have come to usi have described themwhich have made clear the situation respecting the availability of law333.15 yers. and our own consciences. respecting the fact that we should  discriminate against the poor man in one branch of the law when we give him legal representation. will stand up very well. indeed. in conference. i do  intend to be discouraged by any such prospect as senator nelson paints.. and i shall decisively vote against this amendment for the reasons i have stated.
