. indeed. a sense of moral commitment to equality of opportunity under the law for all. and in this connection i would call the attention of the house tonight to a letter of the reverend martin luther king to his fellow clergymena letter written in the birmingham city jail. in it he said: injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality tied in a single garment of destiny. whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. the fourth point that i would like to make is that this bill that we have introduced. along with the bills of my colleagues previously introduced. is an initial step. i feel there is a need for an pepc bill. i feel that there is a need for legislation dealing with apprentice training. and so let me conclude by saying this. let the voice of congress on this moral and legislative issue be heard across the land. american today can plead moral indifference. whoever belittles one americans rights belittles all americans rights. we must walk as one nation under the law with human dignity and equality for all. i hope the congress will pass this legislation. in so doing the congress will help to revitalize the spirit of democracy. in so doing the congress will help to make human liberty and equality of opportunity a reality. in short. will take action to live up to and to keep faith with the american dream.
. i am today introducing a bill entitled the "civil rights procedure act." this act will modernize and strengthen the federal law to make it more effective to prevent the infringement of federally granted substantive civil rights by unlawful state action in the form of criminal prosecutions. more specifically. the act will liberalize the provisions of federal law regarding removal of state prosecutions to federal district courts in civil rights cases and extend the jurisdiction of federal courts to enjoin unconstitutional state criminal proceedings. the need for this legislation is clear. americans seeking to avail themselves of their constitutionally protected rights have been subjected to criminal proceedings designed to drain them of their financial resources and destroy their spirits. this act will extend protection to citizens in the exercise of the rights secured by the civil rights act of 1964 as well as in the exercise of the rights of freedom of speech. freedom of the press. freedom peaceably to assemble and the guarantee of the equal protection of the laws secured by the constitution. the bill was drafted by the special committee on civil rights under law of the association of the bar of the city of new york. under the able leadership of its chairman. hon. francis e. rivers. the committee has performed an outstanding public service in preparing this legislation after exhaustive study of the underlying problem. we may hope that state courts will in time assume the full burden of protecting the civil rights of our citizens. the federal government must  be remiss. however. in assuring a full measure of protection for all americans who seek to participate in our government of laws.
. i join my colleagues today in offering my congratulations to congressman charles joelson. who has worked long and hard both on the appropriations committee and on the floor of the house to support forwardlooking programs and to urge a relevant order of priorities for our nation. he has most recently proven his commitment by amending the laborhew appropriations bill to provide an additional $1 billion for education. the entire academic community. as well as those less privileged who may with these funds receive the oppc tunity to be educated. will remain deeply indebted to him for this courageous and constructive action. i am glad that mr. joelsons last effort in the house furthered the cause of education. and i heartily commend him for his leadership in this area. which is consistent with his past record of defending the rights of all. this record speaks for itself. although we in the house will miss him. the people of new jersey will indeed be fortunate to have his wise counsel and fine judgment on the bench of the superior court of new jersey.
. victor riesel. on the banning by the union of south africa of american newspapermen in connection with the forthcoming visit there of the junior senator from the state of new york. the hoable robert f. kennedy. both personally and on behalf of this great organization. i must protest against the restriction on freedom of the press thus involved. i think that it is imperative that we point out that. as a member of the british commonwealth of nations. in which many of the freedoms originated which we in the united states hold dear. the union of south africa should consider this ban a violation of its own heritage. for us in the united states. this restriction can only emphasize that which many have suspected. which is that the union of south africa fast approaches a police state. i think that our government must lodge an emphatic protest against this ban. sincerely.
. i join my distinguished colleague from new jersey in calling to mind the continued and unresolved case of the hungarian cardinalarchbishop joseph mindszenty. who is forced to live as a refugee in the american embassy in budapest. the struggles of cardinal mindszenty against totalitarianism and for the rights of the individual against state terror and abuse are kn throughout the world and are  restricted to those of his own faith. his brave behavior during the hungarian nazi regime. his steadfast opposition to communist tyranny. and his courageous pastoral letters condemning communist actions in opposition to the pledges of human rights are an inspiring example for us to work for individual freedom and social justice regardless of ideological distortions. today. when efforts are made to improve our relations with the countries of eastcentral europe. the continued inability of the hungarian government to solve the case of cardinal mindszenty by granting a review of the matter and quashing the unjust and also illegal sentence passed by a stalinist court under rakosis regime remains a serious obstacle. however. because he has become a symbol. without a restoration of the rights of the cardinalarchbishop. neither the statechurch relationship in hungary  americanhungarian relations can attain any degree of malcy and improvement. i hope that the voice of reason and justice. and  the voice of hatred and political injustice will be listened to in this case. and that there may be a proper moral and legal conclusion for the cardinal.
i have had scores of industry people come through my office. big business. little business. and medium business. and of the rational ones that i have talked toand i think most of them have been pretty rational. in that they want the acton this particular point. i have never had any of them ask for 100 days or 90 days. but i have consistently had them ask for what is the median . 45 days. so i think it is well if we examine that part. but. . getting back to my second questionand my question. again. is based on a premise of this bill that is before usthe basis being. as i quote from the senator from new york. that "this bill does hing more than put a stop to the continued erosion of existing rights and practices." here is my question: if we are trying to meet the j. p. stevens situation. if we are trying to overcome these delays. this use of highpowered legal talent. all these subterfuges. if you like. going to court and appealing. and battling it every inch of the way. so that finally people drop of exhaustion. why is there present in this bill a section that has hing to do with delays. hing to do with curing the j. p. stevens problem. and that is. why do we have the provision there of equal access. what does that have to do with legal subterfuges in order to delay.
. emous resources are required to mount and sustain protracted litigation to secure institutional relief. the justice department. with the help of the fbi. can best initiate such action. privately and publicly funded public interest advocacy groups have neither the money. the manpower.  the mandate to protect the rights of the institutionalized. in the absence of such resources. and in accordance with our national commitment to institutionalized persons. i wholeheartedly support s. 10 and urge my colleagues to do the same.
let me ask the senator aher question. le have a constitutional amendment which has provided that the youths 18 years of age have the vote. we k the kind of dangerous crowd that group is. sometimes they do  shave right. their clothes are disreputable. many of them smoke pot. they are kind of a rough crowd. suppose we thought that those 18yearolds really are  sensible egh. despite what we have done to the constitution. to vote. would it  be possible to say that that scruffy crowd. these 18yearolds who will be a rather dangerous threatwhat is more. they do  get haircuts. suppose we said that the justice department could  use any appropriated funds to enforce the protection of the rights of the 18yearolds to have a vote. is that a possibility. if we follow along the same theory that the helms amendment does today.
let me finish. if i might. in 1004. the socalled tuck amendrnent sought to prohibit the supreme court from deciding cases involving reapportionment of any state legislature. in debating the omnibus crime control act of 1908. the senate defeated a number of provisions restricting supreme court jurisdiction over a variety of criminal matters. more recently. in 1972. the senate defeated an amendment to the higher education act. very similar to what is before us . e of these efforts were successful. approval of the johnstonhelms amendment would severely hamper the ability of the supreme court to act as the sole interpreter of our constitution. by restricting the ability of federal courts to review state and lower court decisions on an issue. there will be a varying interpretation of the same constitution. with opportunity for resolution. constitutional rights will vary from state to state. as alexander hamilton stated in the federalist.  81: thiirteen independent courts of final jurisdiction over the same causes. arising upon the same laws. is a hydra in government from which hing but contradiction and confusion can proceed. it should be clear that the johnstonhelms approach opens the door for similar legislation to restrict other areas from the federal courts jurisdiction. in fact. over 50 pieces of legislation have been introduced in this congress alone to restrict federal court jurisdiction over issues ranging from busing and abortion. to school prayer and sex discrimination. ib does  take much imagination to foresee a time where this approach is applied to rights that  are taken for granted. today. it is busing or sex discrimination that the courts can decide. tomorrow. it could be voting rights for 18yearolds. invasion of privacy. or protection of property rights. because the policy considerations of this legislation go far beyond busing. and because the constitutional rights of this amendment is open to such question. i urge my colleagues to oppose the johnstronhelms amendment.
yes. . but what we are dealing with here is a caseset aside the busing. to me. that is inconsequential to this argument. the supreme court has said that an individual has a right under the constitution. what we are saying is we disagree with thatthe proponents of this amendment are saying. we disagree with that. so. therefore. we are going to limit that. we are going to limit that right to 5 miles to and fro. 15 minutes each way. and that is a limitation on the rights of the individual under the supreme court. i say that we have never gone that. far before.
this senator. this administration. the prior administration. both justice departments. both u.s. attorneys. and both heads of the cia want legislation that protects first amendment rights and prohibits these activities that have gone on. so. as i said. i would consider it. but that does  mean i will take it.
. what he is talking about here is  what specifically is sought in the law. the proposed law. dealing. with attendance in schools. with school busing or abortion or schnetderman v. united states. 320 u.s. 118. 16869 (1943) (rutledge. j.. concurring). cf. sterling y. constantin. 287 u.s. 378. 403 (1932) (hughes. c.j.) scf. th carolina v. swann. 402 u.s. 43 (1971) linvalidating state statute that rules out busing remedy even where needed to correct de fure segregation). whatever it might bein this case it is prayerbut what he is talking about is the ability to reduce the article iii courts of this country to a nullity. that they are doomed to futility from the start. there is point in their wasting any time on a case because they can do anything about it. thus we are engaged in this theoretical business of deciding cases with results. the same may be said with respect to h.r.*114. which attempts to strip all inferior federal courts of jurisdiction. directly or indirectly. to "modify" the effect of any state court order so long as that order is or was reviewable by the states highest judicial body. if a federal court concludes that such an order was entered in violation of the constitution. that opportunities to challenge and modify it within the states judicial system were and remain constitutionally inadequate. and that the individual whose rights the order violated.  a party properly before the federal court. will continue to be unconstitutionally prejudiced by the order unless it is promptly modified by that federal court. then following the mandate of h.r. 114 would render the court powerless to give its conclusion any offect whatever. the view has at times been expressed that congress is beyond  only to equip whatever federal courts it creates with subject matter and remedial jurisdiction sufficient to satisfy the implicit demands of article iii but also to create such lower federal courts in the first instance (how many. where.) and to vest them with all the jurisdiction that article iii allows. see martin v. hunters lessee. 14 u.s. at 33031. at least to the degree that the effective protection of constitutional rights under modem conditions so requires.* the consistent rejection of this positiona position perhaps rendered more plausible by the civil war amendments than it was when justice story annced it in hunters lesseemight be thought to preclude its adoption . but such rejection of the story view should  be permitted to obscure the underlying principleone never rejected by any courtthat article iii tribunal that congress elects to create. whether under constitutional compulsion or otherwise. may be crippled from birth with a defect of design fatal to the tribunals capacity to fulfill a function indispensable to the "judicial power of the united states." i must say professor tribe is  a master of clarity. however. his points are well taken. basically what he is saying. as i have said before. is that we did  set up these article iii courts to cripple them from birth with a defective design fatal to the courts capacity to fulfill a function indispensable to the judicial power of the united states.
 johnson proclaimed as. a "triumph for freedom as huge as any ever won on any battlefield." on three occasionsin 1970. 1975. and 1982crucial povisions of this act were improved and extended. these improvements preserved the hard won progress of the past. and ensured that the effect to achieve full participation of all americans in our democracy continues well into the future. the voting rights act amendments of 1982public law 97205included a section designed to protect the rights of people who require assistance to votepeople who are visually impaired. those with disabilities. and those who have difficulty reading or writing. because of their need for assistance. these individuals may be more susceptible to influence or manipulation. they run the risk that their right to vote in state and federal elections will  be protected and may be misused. voting is a personal and private matter. it is only natural for a voter requiring assistance to feel apprehensive about casting a ballot in the presence of someone  of his or her choosing. sections 208 allows such voters to select an assistant. however. under current law. the assistant may be any individual. except the voters employer. an agent of the voters employer. or an officer or agent of the voters union. unfortunately. this provision is being abused. one example occurred in my own state of rhode island. a headline in the september 20. 1990. providence journal read. "election chief assails voting assistance law." the article begins by citing the chairman of the board of elections: calling it "the most bizarre situation youll ever see." joseph r. distepha chairman of the state bord of election. said yesterday that the state can do hing to stop candidates and their supporters from going into the voting booths with voters * * * the possibility of mischief is very great * * . as mr. distephapredicted. the mischief was very great in a recent primary in providence. over 500 voters requested assistance to vote. and in one ward. 70 out of 109 people who requested help were assisted by the same five assistants. all of whom worked for a specific primary candidate. allegations have been made that campaign workers coerced voters into receiving assistance. some states have taken action to combat abuse of this provision. in south carolina. for instance. it is illegal to approach a voter waiting in line and ask him or her if assistance to vote is needed. rhode island requires both the voter and the assistant to sign affidavits. in addition. the providence board of canvassers annced that city police officers will be stationed at the polls to monitor the ember 6 election. i ask unanimous consent that an october 24 providence journal article on this subject be included in the record. -the blatant abuse of voters that has resulted form this provision should  continue. clearly. the purpose was  to allow candidates to pack the voting areas with their workers. masquerading as wellintentioned assistants for the visually impaired and other voters requiring assistance. people are interpreting this provision looselythey have lost respect for the integrity of the voting process. i plan to introduce legislation in the next session to restore the original intent of section 208. the legislation would prevent candidates appearing on the ballot and officers of their campaigns from providing assistance. it would close the loophole that allows unscrupulous candidates to take advantage of those individuals the law sought to assist. as i move ahead with this legislation. i will welcome the suggestions of any of my colleagues who share my concern.
. i oppose the amendment offered by senator symmsas i have in the pastand urge my colleagues to reject the amendment as unnecessary and unwise. first. the amendment is unnecessary as private property rights are already fully protected under the u.s. constiseptember 80. i991 co] tution. the fifth amendment states that the government shall  take private property without providing just compensation. the question for the courts has been: what is considered a -taking. while the government must. in carrying out its duties. impose rules and regulations which affect individual rightsincluding property rightsthe courts have generally held that whengovernment action denies a property owner all or virtually all viable use of his property. the owner must receive just compensation. this amendment adds hing to the protections for private property rights already contained in the constitution. what it does is to codify an existing executive order that is of questionable merit. why is the congress acting -to adopt an executive order as legislation. why is this necessary. supposedly some agencies--including the epahave  yet come into full compliance with this executive order. yet. i understand that the epa submitted its final proposal to the justice department for their review on june 20. the justice department has  yet3 months latercompleted their review of epas proposal. this is  because there are any substantive problems with the proposaljustice has just  acted. under senator svzns amendment. the epa would  be able to implement any new regulations until the attorney general had certified that it was in compliance with the takings executive order. this could delay the issuance of important regulations whether or  the regulations had takings implications. second. approving this amendment is unwise. this amendment would empower the attorney general to block any regulation to implement any statute simply by withholding or withdrawing certification that the agency attempting to issue the regulation is in compliance with executive order 12630 or similar procedures. furthermore. under the terms of this amendment. even after the attorney general had certified that an agency had complied with the executive order. he could at any time replace the requirements of the existing order with "similar procedures" at his discretion. why does congress want to issue a blank check to the attorney general on whether to allow the issuance of congressionally mandated regulations. despite the broad scope of this amendment. house or senate committee has considered this legislation or its potential impact on regulations to protect health. the environment. civil rights. to name just a few important topics. again. i have to ask what is the rush to codify this executive order. where is the need to pass this amendment. and given the fact that the epa submitted its final proposal to comply with the executive order over 3 months ago and justice has yet to respond. does it make any sense to give the attorney general unfettered discretion to interfere with the regulatory process. executive order 12630 is problematic in its own right in that it does  accurately reflect takings law as articulated- by the supreme court. according to a report prepared by the congressional research service. the executive order greatly overstates the likelihood that agency actions would be found to constitute a taking under the constitution. the. congressional research service report states that there appears to be basis in federal taking jurisprudence for theadded demands imposed by the executive order. this is particularly the case with federal regulations aimed at protecting public health and safety. as these types of regulations are considered the least likely to be found by the courts to effect "a taking of private property." so the question becomeswill this amendment help protect private propertya goal which i certainly support--or will it add yet aher unnecessary and problematic layer to the regulatory review process and cede important legislative powers to the executive. i think a careful reading of this amendment suggests the latter and i urge my colleagues to oppose it.
indeed. we as senators are supposed to abide by the law of the land. which. as expressed by the u.s. supreme court in roe against wade. is that a criminal abortion statute that excepts from criminality only a lifesaving procedure on the mothers behalf without regard to the stage of her pregnancy and other interests violates the due process clause of the constitution. that is the law of the land. what we are being asked to do here is to take the law of the land as determined by the supreme court and suborn the law to the beliefs of a miity of the citizenry. more importantly. the law is to be suborned to the views of a group of men and women who are sworn to uphold the constitution of the united states. who have had that trust placed upon them. and  clearly. in my viewand i think in the views of manyare violating it both de jure and de facto. i have to repeat the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee. the senator from washington. and the distinguished chairman of the d.c. appropriations subcommittee. are forced into positions of compromise on the abortion language in order  to hold up the process of government in this nation. in this case of the government of the district of columbia. last week. on the continuing appropriations bill. it was the government of the united states of america that was being held hostage. this has been as distasteful. i am sure. a task for them as it is for me when confronted with a vote. pro or con. with respect to the district of columbia. i am  going to speak much more. i just wanted to start talking about the way a miity of people want to be heard. these people come to the district of columbia frightening the hell out of senators and congressmen. taking roses and using them as baseball bats. these people act as though the whole nation wants the constitution turned upside down. because of their point of view. i do  think the government should be turned upside down. i think we ought to have the courage to do our job as the constitution calls for it to be done. cxxv- 1824part 22 i repeat. vote out any one of the policies that have in effect been established by the abortion language tacked on to appropriations bill. and that is fair egh. but do it out front. and put a new crime on the books if that is the will of the american people. stop sneaking around robin hoods barn. turning everybody willynilly loose and unable to perform the functions of government in this nation. do you want to go ahead and change medicare and medicaid. if so. let everybody stand up . and let us make it very clear as to how we are going to change that. we will eliminate a policy for funding for "medically necessary" procedures. if that is the will of the people. let us do away with that policy. it is  what i would vote for. but it is what is selectively being voted for out here on appropriations bills in furtherance of some peoples religious beliefs. if we want to go ahead and make abortion a crime for everybody. rich and poor alike. let us stand up and vote for that. i do  think there are too many who would like to do that either. every time i say it has been well established by the supreme court as to what is and is  constitutional. those who disagree say. "well. sir. we can have the supreme court running the united states of america." who is supposed to run the united states of america. i thought the whole object of our constitutional system was  to simply approve or disapprove what. at the time is nice or bad. right or wrong. but instead to adhere to that which is legal. and abortion is legal in the united states of america. it is legal. and i certainly think there is ody here who will deny that. the only obligation i have to any religion in this country is to make sure that all americans may affirm and reaffirm their beliefs and practice their religion in the way they will. i will insure that the free exercise of religion will  be prohibited. that is the only obligation i have. i took an oath when i took this job that i would fulfill this obligation. i am  here to translate into the laws of this country the beliefs that any faith might have and that is exactly what is being done on this abortion issue. it is time somebody said it loud and clear from the floor of the united states senate. and the political consequences be damned. faith should be able to impose its will upon this country. well. as i said. there will be more to say on this in the future. i am  going to sit here until the law is nibbled away and finally we get the hyde language. and then we sort of drift into this backwards. stand up for your beliefs. but more important. stand up for the first amendment: congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion. or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.... ody is doing that. per se. but certainly that is the way our actions may be construed in many. many different areas. for good cause. i am going to vote against the conference report.  because i do  think it is a good report. i think it is absolutely on target. however. i disagree with the language on abortion. i can see where we are goiiqg. this is the second time around. slowly. we will get to the original hyde language. and i will have part of it. when you start making exceptions as to when an abortion can be had and when it can. and the gray areas that you leave out. have e of you thought about the fact that a mother can have a child which child is kn ahead of time to be a child with downs syndrome. do you  think that is important in terms of the particular religious faiths of the father and mother. in consultation with each other. to decide about the life of that child. with the type of life the child will have. are we to say what is right and what is wrong.
i have the floor. i was scheduled to appear before the senators committee tomorrow to testify on this subject. but apparently he has already formulated his conclusion in the form of an amendment. tell me what the sense of that is. i have been here longer than the senator from georgia. and i understand what those abuses are. the senator can drag in a few disgruntled law enforcement officials who can go running acros.. the street and obtain their convictions in an easy way. i am far more interested in the civil and constitutional rights of every citizen.  the alacrity with which convictions can be obtained by the justice department.
let me read to you  the report to the president and the congress by the u.s. commission on civil rights transmitted to the president of the united states. the president of the senate. and the speaker of the house on january of this year. stas: the u.s. commission on civil rights presents these recommendations to you pursuant to public law 85315. as amended. in 1980 the nation witnessed increased resistance to equal opportunity. deepening concern about the relationship between milties and agencies responsible for the administration of justice. growing strength of groups that preach hate. and civil unrest in many communities. if these trends are to be resisted. it is imperative that strong leadership be exercised during 1981 by both the executive and legislative branches of the federal government. based on analyses and reports of the conunission. this report lists the steps we believe should be taken to move the nation toward achieving equality of opportunity. recent decades have witnessed enactment of strong civil rights laws and the rendering of numerous court decisions that guarantee equal protection of the laws. the nation is  implementing those laws and decisions. important progress in civil rights enforcement has been made in many cases. but vigorous opposition has also resulted. that opposition must be met by taking immediate steps to secure the rights established by the congress and the courts. because of the urgency of the situation. we urge your prompt consideration of the enclosed recommendations. respectfully. arthur s. flemming. chairman. mary p. berry. vice chairman. stephen horn. blandina c. ramirez. jill s. ruckelshaus. murray saltzman. louis nuflez. staff director.  and the congress by the u.s. commission on civil rights be printed in the record.
fourth. the purpose of h.r. 900 and comparable bills is constitutionally impermissible. the currently pending bills withdrawing federal court jurisdiction vary widely in subject matter and in the breadth of the withdrawal. some withdraw jurisdiction only from the lower federal courts. some withdraw jurisdiction from the supreme court as well. some withdraw all cases relating in any way to a particular constitutional right. others withdraw the power to utilize injunctions or declaratory judgments in such cases. all the bills. as far as i k. share in common the feature that they single out particular constitutional rights. and confine their application to cases dealing with that right. thus. some of the bills deal with rights guaranteed by the establishment clause of the first amendment relating to school prayers. some with busing or other remedies pertaining to school desegregation. others with equal protection rights affected by the maleonly draft registration. and still others with womens abortion choice rights under the due process clause. as recognized by the supreme court in roe v. wade. a good example of the general te of these bills is h.r. 900. section 2 of which would withdraw from the lower federal courts jurisdiction to issue injunctions or declaratory judgments in any case invloving a state statute which limits womens abortion rights. like the statute of 1870 involved in the klein case. section 2 of h.r. 900 is a limitation on federal court jurisdiction. but just as the purpose and effect of the 1870 statute was substantivei.e.. to nullify the effect of a presidential pardon on war property claimsso the purpose and effect of section 2 cf h.r. 900 is substantivei.e.. to make it more difficult than theretofore for individuals to secure their constitutional rights recognized in roe v. wade. in neither case is the purpose constitutionally permissible.
the senator raises a very good question. i might add we are  on a new matter in the course of this debate. the answer is. yes. obviously it has been an encouragement for parties getting together to settle their disputes to use moderate means to try to effect a compromise with the law. i think this is an aspect of the situation heretofore  raised. the senator makes a very good point in the course of this question. and clearly the availability of this remedy has probably played a very large role in achieving successful mediation rather than having the court impose its own version of a remedy: . of course. i am aware of the many cases in which the supreme court has declared and applied the rule that the constitutionality of a statute must be determined on its face. and without inquiry into motives or purposes that underlie the enactment. see. e.g.. mccray v. united states. 195 u.s. 27. 56 (1904): arizona v. california. 283 u.s. 423. 455 (1931): united states v. darby. 312 u.s. 100. 11314 (1941). flemming v. nestor. 303 u.b. 603. 017 (1960). united states v. obrien. 391 u.s. 362. 38286 (1968). for example. a law prohibiting anyone other than a lawyer from engaging in debtadjusting will be upheld if a rational and legitimate purpose can be conceived. without going behind the face of the statute to determine whether or  the actual motive was to confer financial benefits on lawyersa motive by which legislators. many of whom are lawyers. might be governed. ferguson v. skrupa. 372 u.s. 726 (1963). but there are wellrecognized exceptions to that principle. united states v. obrien. supra at 383 e 30. ely. legislative and administrative motivation in constitutional law. 79 yale l.j. 1205 (1970). perhaps the most important one involves the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment. for many years the supreme court has declared the rule that the unequal impact of a statute is  egh to establish a violation of the equal protection clause. there must be a governmental purpose to discriminate. sden v. hughes. 321 u.s. 1 (1944): keyes v. school district. 413 u.s. 189 (1973). washington v. davis. 426 u.s. 229 (1976). arlington heights v. metropolitan hous.ing corp.. 429 u.s. 252 (1977). mobile v. bolden. 446 u.s. 55 (1980). and it is equally well settled that. in equal protection cases. the courts are  limited to an examination of the statute on its face. loving v. virginia. 388 u.s. 1 (1067). green v. county school board. 398 u.s. 430 (1968). columbus board of education v. penick. 443 u.s. 229 (1979). indeed. the inequality of impact may be so great that a purpose to discriminate may be inferred from that circumstance alone. yfck wo v. hopkins. 118 u.s. 356 (1886). washington v. davis. supra at 25354 (justice stevens. concurring). finally. and perhaps most important for present purposes. the court has held that a statute which does  on its face articulate an unlawful purpose. may. because of its language and the context in which it is enacted. disclose on its face an unlawful purpose and an inevitable unlawful effect. grosfean v. american press co.. 297 u.s. 233 (1936). gomillion v. lightfoot. 364 u.s. 339 (1960). the gomillion case involved an alabama statute enacted in 1957 which changed the boundaries of the city of tuskegee from a square to what the supreme court described as "a strangely irregular twentyeightsided figure" (364 u.s. at 341). the complainants. black citizens resident within the square boundaries. sought in the federal courts a declaratory judgment that the statute was unconstitutional. alleging that its "essential inevitable effect" would be "to. remove from the city all save only four or five of its 400 negro voters while  removing a single white voter or resident." the reason i smile. as a former member of a state legislature. . is that i find this is  just a matter of race. i have seen many of the 28sided configurations in legislativereapportionment cases. i imagine we are going to see more than a few by the time the next sessions of these legislatures are through reapportioning on the basis of the latest census: the lower federal courts dismissed the action on the ground that they had power to review the alabama legislatures action. the supreme court unanimously reversed the judgment below. holding that. upon the facts alleged. the statute violated the fifteenth amendment. since upon those facts ". . . the conclusion would be irresist. ible. tantamount for all practical purposes to a mathematical demonstration. that the legislation is solely concerned with segregating white and colored voters by fencing negro citizens out of town so as to deprive them of their preexisting municipal vote." i believe that the relevance of the gomillion case to the issue at hand here is obvious. the power of the alabama legislature over municipal districting was recognized by the supreme court as having "breadth and importance" (364 u.s. at 342). just as congressional power under section 1 of article iii should be so recognized. the alabama stat. ute did  explicitly disfavor black residents of tuskegee. but the boundaries drawn made clear its unconstitutional purpose and effect. section 2 of h.r. 900 does  explicitly avow an unconstitutional purpose. but such a purpose is etheless manifest. from both its text and its context. to be sure. the constitutional rights involved are  the same. the gomillion case involved the voting rights protected by the fifteenth amendment or. as justice whittaker thought (356 -u.s. at 340). the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment. that clause is  irrelevant to the scrutiny of h.r. 900. but the constitutional rights recognized in roe v. wade are. under the courts opinion. based on the concept of personal liberty embodied in the due process clause. these rights the court declared to be "fundamental." and "broad egh to encompass a womans decision whether or  to terminate her pregnancy" (410 u.s. at 153). certainly they are constitutionally entitled to as much protection as those involved in the gomillion and grosfean cases. plainly h.r. 000. including section 2. is intended to prevent if possible. and at least to obstruct. fulfillment of the rights recognized in roe v. wade. indeed. the sponsors of these bills have been commendably frank in ackledging that purpose. and have made effort to mask it. but it is quite unnecessary to rely on such statements by the bills sponsors. and my conclusion that section 2 is unconstitutional is based squarely on the text of the bill itself. for it is impossible to conceli e of any jurisdictional considerations to which the bill is relevant. there are. to be sure. a numbel of litigations involving the performance of abortions pending in the federal courts. but they constitute but an infinitesimal part of the total volume of federal court litigation. thus the bill can reasonably be regarded as intended to reduce the burdens on the federal courts. cases involving the federal constitutionality of state laws. are. to be sure. very numerous in both state and federal courts. a view could be advanced that since state laws are involved. their validity should be first passed upon in the state courts. of course. that would throw on the sunreme court the entire burden of ensuring uniformity among the states of the standards of constitutional validity. and i do  think such a course would commend itself as a matter of policy. but recognizing that such a decision is within it can reasonably be cpntended that so singular a change is reasonably related to a general jurisdictional purpose.  do abortion 1itigations present any features that explain singling them out from other rights similarly derived from the fifth or fourteenth amendments. for exclusion from the federal courts. the conclusion is inescapable. on the face of the bill. that its only purpose and its inevitable effect are to obstruct the judicial protection of the constitutional rights recognized in roe v. wade. such purpose and effect. in the absence of a compelling state interest. are unconstitutional: "it is well settled that. quite apart from the guarantee of equal protection. if a law impinges upon a fundamental right secured by the constitution (iti is presumptively unconstitutional." harris v. mcrae. 480 u.s. -. 65 l.ed. 2d 784. 801 (1980). mobile v. bolden. 446 u.s. 55. 76 (1980). san antonio school district v. rodriguez. 411 u.s. 1. 17. 31 (1973): shapiro v. thompson 394 u.s. 618. 631 (1969). i should add. though it may be unnecessary. that section 2 of h.r. 900 also violates the principle of equal protection of the laws. which has been held to be embodied in the due process clause of the fifth amendment. and is therefore binding on the federal government as well as the states. bolling v. sharpe. 347 u.s. 492 (1954). for the jurisdictional withdrawal in section 2 singles out pregnant women. whose rights are protected by roe v. wade. * * * sound familiar. we are  singling out children being discriminated against as shown n brown versus the .board of education. all of a sudden the picture becomes clear as decision after decision is picked out. therefore. we will do the endaround by the constitutional route or the appropriation process. who is to k what decision tomorrow the united states senate is  going to like or the house of representatives is  going to like. who is to say what decision the citizenry as a whole does or does  like.  we have a government.  of laws but a government of what we like and what we do  like. indeed. i do  find that much different from an anarchy. total anarchy. legislative anarchy. judicial anarchy. executive anarchy. government by what we like and what we do  like.
 of the american bar association. morris harrell. to this senator: as you wetl k. the aba takes position on the issues of school prayer. abortion or busing. but is concerned that the pendency of aher highly emotionallycharged debate over prayer or abortion will obscure the fundamental flaw in all these proposals. we emphasize again that the issue is  prayer. abortion or busing. the real issue is the integrity of our tripartite system of government. the aba has long opposed any legislative attempt to alter constitutional law through means other than constitutional amendment. we believe that the enactment of any of these measures would constitute an unprecedented attack on the constitution and the independence of the federal judiciary and establish unwise policy. such proposals. if enacted. could be used in the future as precedents for effecting constitutional changes that would impair other rights of all americans. including proponents of the present amendments. all such proposals should be vigorously resisted. we also reiterate that the serious constitutional questions involved in these court limitation proposals deserve full consideration in committee. avoiding the healthy public debate currently underway in the judiciary committee and injecting the unrelated court jurisdiction issue into the debate over the debt ceiling would do a grave disservice to both issues. we strongly urge that the senate permit the mal legislative process to continue uninterrupted and to oppose any courtstripping proposals. consequently. we endorse adoption of the pending weicker and baucus amendments. sincerely.
. the legislation i am introducing today is a specific response to the courts opinion in smith versus robinson. my amendment to public law 94142 is for the limited purpose of clarifying what i believe has always been. and continues to be. the intent of congress: that reasonable attorneys fees be available to parents of handicapped children who prevail in a civil court action to enforce their childs right to education. this amendment will in way change requirements for parents to first exhaust the available administrative procedures in attempting to resolve the disagreements. the administrative hearing procedures will continue to be the process by which the vast majority of disagreements about appropriate educational programs are resolved. in other words. civil court action will remain. as it his always been. an option of last resort. the amendment also qlarifies that congress did  intend that passage of public law 94142 should limit or reduce the rights. procedures. and remedies available to handicapped children under the u.s. constitution. title v or the rehabilitation act. or any other federal statute. as a result of this clarification there will be question about the commitment of congress to guarantee to handicapped children the civil rights which are available to the rest of our countrys citizens. the unfortunate situation in which we find ourselves as. a result of smith versus robinson was summarized appropriately by justices brennan. marshall. and stevens in their dissenting opinion to the case: "congress will  have to take the time to. revisit the matter. and until it does. the handicapped children of our country whose difficulties. are compounded by discrimination and by other deprivations of constitutional rights will have to pay the costs. it is at best ironic that the court has managed to impose this burden on handicapped children in the course of interpreting a statute wholly- intended to promote the educational rights of those children." i urge my colleagues to support this legislation which. simply clarifies the intent of congress to protect the educational rights of handicapped children. and i ask that the handicapped childrens protection act of 1985 be printed in its entirety in todays record- at the conclusion of these remarks.
. i will be very brief with my remarks. we have plowed this ground many times. there are some very brief points that i care to make. then i hope the senator from th carolina will pursue his tabling motion.  1. as has been pointed out. if you leave the house language in. then indeed you have a total prohibition insofar as abortion is concerned even including those that would take place in an effort to save the life of the mother. we do  have any such restrictive language in any federal legislation. that really is the most important part. there is point in getting into debate again about the district of columbia. its rights. privileges. and all the rest of it. they ought to stand on their own. but that is aher argument for aher day. the fact is the language that would come into play if indeed the tabling motion of the senator from th carolina is agreed to. would be the most restrictive abortion language that we have on any legislation either proposed or enacted into law. point  2. the distinguished senator from th carolina made the statement as to what he considers a crime. fortunately. for the nation. what he considers to be a crime is more relevant than what the senator from connecticut deems to be a crime. what is or what is  a crime in the united states is a matter of law and is determined in the ultimate by the supreme court of the united states. the supreme court of the united states is very clear on the matter of abortion in the case of roe versus wade. that is the law of the land. abortions that take place within the structures set forth by roe versus wade are legal. that is the law of the land. they are  crimes. so i hope in both those regards we would go ahead and reject the tabling motion of the distinguished senator from th carolina. it is my understanding that the senator from new hampshire will be taking up the baton at that stage of the game with his own version of what should be done. i can only say this: the time that .has been expended on this matter on abortion. as pointed out by the distinguished senator from ohio. is keeping us from those duties which are far more pressing. it is  a. matteragain i might addof what the morality is or the thoughts are of those in this body. everybody is entitled to give them full expression in whatever way they deem fit. there comes a point where the line has to be drawn. indeed. i might point out parenthetically that this being thursday. 2 days past election day. the issue in the state of connecticut was clearly put on the ballot: should roe versus wade be overturned. the issue was presented to a group of voters. who i would say as a matter of demographics probably would clearly lean toward the positions advocated by the distinguished senators from th carolina. new hampshire. and others. it was rejected. the voters said  roe versus wade should  be overturned. i am  here to go ahead and represent any sort of popularity contest on any issue. i think my colleagues k that well. i think egh time has been afforded the issue. everybody has had a fair cut at the ball.  the time has come to  only dispose of this. but get on to those issues that are the real issues of concern to the people of this nation. . again. i repeat. i respect the articles of faith and the morality of any one of my colleagues. my own included. however. that is  sufficient to be the law of the land. that is determined in a very precise constitutional process. the law of the land says that abortion is legal. legal. as i say. within the parameters set forth in roe versus wade. i would hope that the amendment of the senator from th carolina. when it comes. is defeated.
. i rise in support of the conference report on s. 415. the handicapped childrens protection act. two years ago. the supreme court decided in smith versus robinson that public law 94142 does  permit the award of attorneys fees to parents who prevail in civil actions to protect their childs right to a free and appropriate public education. at that time. the court reasoned that. had congress intended that the award of attorneys fees be available under the education of the handicapped act. it would have explicitly stated so in that act. the supreme court decision was  a unanimous one. in their dissenting opinion. justices brennan. marshall. and stevens stated: congress will  have to take the time to revisit the matter. and until it does. the handicapped children of this country whose difficulties are compounded by discrimination and other deprivations of constitutional rights will have to pay the costs. the handicapped children of this country have paid the costs for 2 years . but today we correct this error. in adopting this legislation. we are rejecting the reasoning of the supreme court in smith versus robinson. and reaffirming the original intent of congress that the educational rights of handicapped children and their parents shall  go unprotected. the handicapped childrens protection act states explicitly what is implicit in the education of the handicapped act regarding the civil right of handicapped children to an education. by allowing the courts to award attorneys fees to prevailing parents or guardians. handicapped children are protected against discrimination in the same manner as are other vulnerable groups. what we do here today is to make the education of the handicapped act consistent with more than 130 other fee shifting statutes which provide for the award of attorneys fees to parties who prevail in court to obtain what is guaranteed to them by law. without this remedy. many of our civil rights would be hollow proncements available only to those who could afford to sue for enforcement of their rights. the passage of this bill today reaffirms our commitment to equality of opportunity and equal justice for all. today. we stand together in our resolve to recognize the handicapped members of our society as citizens of this nationentitled to all rights and remedies available under the law. finally. i particularly want to thank my colleagues senator hatch. the chairman of the committee on labor and human resources. and senator kerry. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee on the handicapped. for their diligent efforts at accommodating diverse points of view in developing this conference agreement. i urge the adoption of the conference report the ranking member of the subcommittee on the handicapped.
. let us make very clear what this amendment says. i am perfectly willing to sit down and see if we can make it a better amendment. but it says: suspend terrorist activities so that negotiations with the government of south africa and other groups representing black south africans will be possible. terrorist activities are terrorist activities. if you want to say suspend terrorist activities in the government of south africa. because it is a government makes its activities less terrorist. as if there are two terrorist activities going on here. it then goes on to indicate: "supporting the rights of all south africans to be free of terrorist attacks." the ongoing terrorist attacks of the government of south africa. the united states also recognizes that some of the organizations fighting apartheid have become infiltrated by communists and that communists serve on the governing boards of such organizations. do you want to put in: "the united states recognizes that the government of south africa has become infiltrated by fascists and that fascists serve in the government of south africa". do you want to put that in there so it will be clear.  the implication is clear: that those who are downtrodden are the terrorists and that they are communists. and then there is the government of south africa. that is what is wrong with this amendment. i would be glad to sit down so that we can get some of this inflammatory language out of here. if it is going to be evenhanded. let us  start pointing the finger at the communists and saying who is being infiltrated by communists. if that can be done. possibly an amendment can be worked out. to me. this is very clear: it is an attempt to counterbalance the sense of justice without demagoguery. kledge whatsoever as to what exists on the other side. i do  mean that in terms of the sponsor of the amendment. because i have seen this language used nationwide in discussion of the subject by many people. the problem here is totalitarianism.  communism. the problem is a government that has created a situation that is abominable to the ideals of this nation. that is the issue before us. if we going to put this kind of language in that amendment that calls for peace and evenhandedness. i have  quarrel with that. then i suggest that we sit down and take a careful look at the language contained herein. and before we go to a vote. i would suggest the absence of a quorum. without interfering with any other senators right to speak.
may i say to the distinguished senator from west virginia that even before coming to this august body i had always objected to filibusters. and certainly i have intent of participating in a filibuster . it was my understanding that this was a debate on the ination of g. harrold carswell to be a member of the supreme court of the united states. that the proponents and opponents would be engaged in a debate which would be very helpful to the senate in arriving at whatever decision it ultimately will come to in the days ahead. so i want to assure my very distinguished friend that. if this is a filibuster. i am  aware of it. and certainly  a party to it. the matter which i am discussing here with my colleagues is one. i think. of great importance. and obviously they think it is of great importance to be here this late in the evening discussing these matters. again. i thank the distinguished senator for protecting my rights to debate the ination of g. harrold carswell.
. last year. in perhaps its most controversial decision of the past decade the u.s. supreme court ruled that a woman has a constitutional right to terminate her pregnancy under certain circumstances. the decision. instead of resolving the abortion issue. has precipitated an intensification of an already heated debate. opponents and proponents of the decision have flooded capitol hill with hundreds of thousands of letters. this attention has focused primarily on the various proposed amendments to the constitution. designed to overturn the supreme court decision. because i have many reservations concerning these amendments. i can in good conscience support the efforts to enact them. in order to discuss the constitutional amendments. it is first necessary to understand precisely what the supreme court decided. in the companion cases. roe against wade. and doe against bolton. the supreme court held: first. that during the first trimesterusually meaning the first 13 weeks of gestationthe decision to have an abortion must be left solely to the woman and her doctor. second. that during the second trimester. government regulations "reasonably related to maternal health." such as licensing of the facility and its personnel. are permissible. and third. that after the 26th or 27th week of pregnancywhen the fetus is potentially capable of life outside the mothers wombantiabortion laws may be passed to protect the states "interest in the potentiality of human life." but that abortion prohibitions must make exception for the preservation of the womans life and health. regrettably. confusion still exists as to what the supreme court actually allowed. for example. some contend that the decision authorizes "abortion on demand". this is  so. the court held that based on her right to privacy. a woman has a qualified right to have an abortion. but. this right. as outlined above in the summary of the courts holdings. is dependent on a number of factors. second. the supreme court decision does  force anyone to do anything that would be inconsistent with ones religious or personal beliefs. in fact. the essence of the supreme court decision is freedom of choice. the government assumes a neutral position. it forces one to have an abortion.  does it compel anyone to perform an abortion. on the other hand. i fear that the proposed constitutional amendments might preclude individuals from acting in accordance with the dictates of their consciences. in these amendments the federal government assumes an affirmative role. it can be argued that the religious or personal beliefs of some would be imposed upon others. if so. i believe that these amendments might endanger a central judeochristian tenetfreedom of conscience. such a result might also be violative of the spirit of the first amendments freedom of religion clause. i am apprehensive about endorsing any measure that might threaten one of our most precious heritages. in considering whether one should support one of the proposed amendments. it is also important to ask a practical. realistic question will this amendment stop abortions. available evidence suggests that passage of an amendment would merely restore the practice of millions of illegal abortionsmany under backalley conditionsthat have prevailed until recently. this would mean a return to high maternal death rates. uncqual treatment of poor women. and an increase in abandoned. abused and unwanted children. in addition. severe laws would again be permitted with criminal lenalties for women who feel they must frovent childbirth. we must ask ourselves whether approval of such a constitutional amendment would create greater problems than it would solve. aher consideration is my reluctance to use the constitutional amendment process to solve the social problems that beset our country. in recent times there seems to be a disturbing trend to resort to a constitutional amendment as a panacea. in addition to threatening the independence of the judiciary. i believe that this tendency distorts the concept of our constitution. it was  meant to be the repository of every proposed solution to every social ill. in addition to the aforementioned factors. one other major reason contributes to my disinclination to endorse a constitutional amendment. too many important and relevant questions remain unresolved. as the recent abortion hearings before the senate subcommittee on constitutional amendments amply demonstrated. many issues deserve to be thoroughly studied. included would be consideration of the legal status of the unborn child. the intention of the framers of the 14th amendment regarding the meaning of a "person." the origins and limitations of the "right to privacy." the rights of the fathor of the unborn child. the medical and psychological consequences of abortion. et cetera. if the subject of abortion is to be fully and fairly treated. all these issues must be comprehensively examined. the cumulative effect of all these reservations is to make me quite dubious about the merits of these constitutional amendments. the available evidence appears to indicate that passage of such an amendment would only exacerbate an already difficult situation. the abortion question is truly agonizing. i am fully sympathetic to the views expressed by individuals on both sides of the issue. i do hope that all involved in the debate will remain tolerant of one ahers beliefs. unfortunately. on occasion. the debate has been marked by uncommon bitterness. although we may believe our causes to be right and just. we must still respect differences of opinionespecially on an issue that embodies so many legal. moral. medical. religious. and sociological factors. detente
that has to do with the payment of attorneys fees. it says: the prevailing party in any action tinder the act may. at the courts discretion. request a reasonable attorneys fee as part of the cost. that provision might seem very simple. but what does it mean. there is doubt of the consequences of such a provision. it strikes at the very foundation of american justice by intimidating and deterring the poor from asserting the constitutional rights of their children. how many poor black mothersor white motherscould afford attorneys fees in a case where they wanted to raise an objection to the segregation of their children. the authors pulled out all stops in the proposed amendment. they tried to cover all areas. to make sure that busing could  be used as an effective. reasonable. and limited tool to desegregate public schools in this country. it is inconceivable to me that the senate of the united states. in 1974. should be debating this issue.
i think the statement has been made. "well. the supreme court has decided this issue." the supreme court has said. as has been said on this floor before that under certain circumstances. abortions are legal. two years ago. the supreme court ruled that a woman has the qualified right to terminate her pregnancy during the first trimester of that pregnancy. her right to do so is based on the constitutionally protected right of privacy. since that landmark decision. the lower federal courts have consistently ruled against states policies which would curtail that right. in particular. they have ruled that under the 14th amendment once a state makes medical services available to pregnant women. it can discriminate against those women who choose to terminate their pregnancy during the first trimester. public programs by paying for childbirth. but  elective abortions. deprive indigent women of their right of privacy to decide whether or  to bear children and force them to carry their children to term of ecoic reasons. in judicial decisions interest of the state has been compelling egh to override a womans right to privacy in the matter of whether or  to choose an abortion during the first 3 months of pregnancy. i believe that the same judicial reasoning which the courts have applied to states actions under the 14th amendment would also be applied to federal actions under the 5th amendment. i. therefore. believe the house language to be unconstitutional. the federal government as well as the states can provide funds and services for those women who choose to end their pregnancy through birth while denying funds and services to those who choose to end their pregnancy during the first trimester. . unless you have a constitutional amendment that passes the judiciary committee and is reported out to the floor of the senate. voted on by the senate and the house. and then ratified by the states. that court decision will be the law of the land. that is the law we have to deal with. the issue before us  is whether we want to deprive poor women who are on medicaid. who. under those circumstances that have been set forth by the supreme court of the united states. are going to be denied the right to have abortions. that is all we are saying. that is the simple issue that is facing the senate today. and more. i do  think we ought to get into an emotional debate about the number of aborted fetuses and morality and the dictates of religion. that is  before us. all we have in this bill is language which would deny poor women who are on medicaid the opportunity to qualify under the supreme court decision. . the senator from rhode island said there could be other agencies providing abortion. what other agencies are there. we k that is  true. rich women have always been able to have an abortion when they wanted it. they can do it  and they have always been able to do it. they can go into a clinic and have an abortion. that is what we k and that is what they have been doing. poor girls have had to go down some dark alleyway. and. yes. have an abortion by a butcher. and many times lost their lives because they could  afford to go into a clinic or to a hospital to have an abortion. the supreme court has said it is wrong. the supreme court has tried to rectify the situation. if we do  like that law there are ways of changing it. and the senator from th carolina has tried to change it that way. he stood on the floor and tried to get a constitutional amendment up. and he failed to do it. but we are  talking about that today. we are. if we do  kk out this language as the senator from oregon wants us to do. denying a poor woman her equal rights to go in and have an abortion under those circumstances limited by the supreme court and more. so to protect her life. her right to live. we are denying her the right to have an abortion. if she is raped and becomes pregnant. she has to have the child because she can afford to have an abortion. if there is incest and she becomes pregnant. and she can afford to have an abortion. she has to have the baby because we are denying her her rights as set forth by the supreme court of the united states. the senator said we are divided down the middle. we are  divided down the middle on this issue at all. the great majority of people in the united states understand there are certain circumstances under which a woman should be given the opportunity to have an abortion. so i hope the senators amendment to strike will prevail. i ask to join him as a cosponsor of his amendment. i think it is a good amendment. and i think it is an essential amendment. and i hope we do  spend days and days on this issue. at the appropriate time. someone will come forth with a constitutional amendment and let the senate decide it one way or the other if we ought to go that route. but we can change the law on this floor today. and we all k it. all we can do is to kk out in this language. this language in this bill. this appropriation bill. which would then enable a poor woman to have an abortion if her doctor should deem that it is necessary.
. until enactment of the 1965 social security amendments. the law made provision for paying benefits to a woman on the basis of the earnings of the man from whom she was divorced. the 1965 act provided for the payments of wifes and widows benefits to divorced women. as the report of the committee on finance to the senate said. the benefits were for "women who have spent their lives in marriages that are dissolved * * * (and) who have  been able to work and earn social security protection of their own." under the 1965 provision. these benefits were payable to women who had been married for at least 20 years and who could meet a complicated dependency test under which actual dependency was  required. all that was required was that thewoman have an enforceable right to some sort of payment from her former husband. both the duratiomarriage and the dependency test were arbitrary and the .dependency test was removed in 1972. however. the 20year duratiomarriage requirement remains. .i have been told by some of the people who worked on the 1965 provision that the 20year duration requirement came about because some duration requirement seemed necessary so that there would  be several women getting wifes benefits based on the earnings of one man. this. however. seems to work quite a hardship on a number of women and if a man can earn rights to social security benefits with  more than 10 years of work. it does  seem unreasonable to permit 10 years of marriage to allow a woman to qualify for benefits as a divorced wife or widow. i have. therefore. introduced this legislation to reduce the duratiomarriage requirement for divorced women from 20 years to 10 years. the social security administration actuaries have estimated that if this were done. about 45.000 women would qualify for $90 million in benefits in the first year the change is effective. the 10year requirement is more equitable. and should speedily be enacted into law. by mr. stevens:
you k and i k that cnly a small fraction of the 30.000 mentioned in the list will be included in the list. in canada they have a list with 18 drugs on it. with any degree of intelligent action we would have clear action in a reasonable time. instead of projecting this over 30.000 cases. the gentleman from texas [mr. beckworthj pointed out that in the hearings we had 140 cases between december 28. 1943. and april 1. 1951. i do want to do away with the tortuous casebycase procedure. i do  want our people dragged into court and fined and given suspended sentences or imprisoned or enjoined or have their property seized because they do  k whether they are  safely selling drugs over the counter. they are justly entitled to all the certainty possible. i k the public that is using these drugs has some rights here today. i hope they will be recognized.
. there is question in my mind but that legislation is very necessary in this situation. the decisions of the supreme court have cast doubt on titles. they have cast doubt on rights that had been thought for a century or more tc be fixed and settled. there are other implications of the decisions which are very disturbing. affecting the ownerrhip of private property of every kind on land as well as under water. we ought to act. it is our duty to do so. i believe. however. thst this bill goes too far. my amendment attempts to limit it to accomplish the substantial purposes that i think ought to be accomplished. without nutting us in the position. the law having been declared. whether we like it or . of giving away federal assets of infinitely great value. this is what my amendment would do: it would confirm in the states the resources in the land under their inland waters. including the great lakes. and as to the great lakes i point out that two attorneys general of the united states have said that there is question in their minds but that they are inland w.-ters. it confirms also in the states. subject. of course. to federal powers in respect of navigation. defense and so forth which are  questioned. land under the marginal sea out to the threemile limit uniformly around the country. it does  give effect to the more extended boundary claims of certain states. on that point. it seems to me. it is a fair compromise. the supreme court has held. regardless of what some states think of it. that states rights do  extend at all under the marginal sea. we are acting in the face of that decision and we are  bound. therefore. by any claims made theretofore except on the basis of equity. it seems to me on the basis of equity we ought to act with uniformity and treat all states alike. it is my understanding. as a matter of fact. that texas would lose very llttle. if anything by my amendment. because we have been advised by the gentleman from texas that texas has oil in the marginal sea within its boundaries. i think that is a fair way of handling that situation. i shall also offer an amendment to strike from the bill any provision for giving the states any share in the royalties from the oil originating under the continental shelf beyond the 3mile limit. there is reason for such provision and it should be eliminated from this bill. in other words. under these two amendments of mine the states would get everything up to the 3mile limit. hing beyond. and. i believe. so far as we can act on this problem in a rather hasty way. it would give to the other body something in the way of a fair compromise which it can perfect.
the proposed remedy is constitutional. it is clearly within the power of this body to provide relief for millions of citizens whose rights are denied. is the remedy appropriate. of course it is. damages or criminal prosecution can repair the loss suffered by one deprived of the right to vote. amount of damages would be adequate. traditionally. the purpose of equity has been to provide a remedy where other remedies are inadequate. this is without question the only remedy a person deprived of the right to vote can have. that is in any way adequate. the only adequate remedy for a person who is being denied his right to vote is to have that right restored to him. there is an additional reason. in this delicate area. why this remedy is appropriate. it does  make sense to deal with respected citizens. as most of the voting registrars are. people who are acting in accordance with the general usage of the community in denying these rights. by throwing them into jail. such action would offend the community. it would be distasteful in the extreme to the people who would have to enforce the law. in this delicate area the right course is to provide an effective remedy in equity. thirty or more statutes provide this same kind of remedy and means of enforcement of federal statutes. i ask unanimous consent that an excerpt from the remarks of the senator from illis on july 26. including a list of such statutes. be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
i believe that all of us share at some time the concern to make the act definite and to let everyone keven lawyers. so that they can advise their clients for a feewhat the rights of the people are. and what remedies exist. i wish to be certain that action of mine will make things worse or less certain. however. i believe that there is involved  only the question of what statutes shall applyand of course in cases affecting interstate commerce. i am sure all of us agree that the tafthartley act provisions are binding and apply matter which court enforces thembut there is also-
and williams felt the senators should clear up ugly rumors by their own testimony. the majority leader. senator mike mansfield was able to steamroller the 9 democrats and 24 republicans who supported the resolution. seldom has the senate chamber heard such shouted exchanges of bad faith and seen such trampling of miity rights as came in debate of the resolution. senator case and senator mansfield argued heatedly over the chair rulings of senator edward kennedy who was presiding. senator magunson. washington democrat. declared the senators records were pure. if so. why did senator everett jordan. th carolina democrat. accuse senator case of "scaling the heights of demogoguery." when senator mansfield demanded that case name the senators he wanted the committee to question. senator kennedy refused to let senator case answer. the very virulence of the democratic senators in refusing to let the baker investigation go on. raises new suspicions that there are matters the public should k about. [from the veronacedar grove (n.j.) times.
i thank the chair. i appreciate the chairs willingness to place that ruling on the record. in accordance with the advice. and  the ruling of the chair through the parliamentarian. we are  offering. and will  attempt to offer. our legislative proposal. fortunately. however. there is an opportunity  to strengthen the resolution reported by the rules committee by adopting the amendments cosponsored by the senator from pennsylvania . himself a member of the committee. and by me. and  by the senator from new york . this is the least we can do as an interim measure in the absence of more complete legislation. i would think that this amendment should have the full support of the rules committee and of the senate itself. how can anyone be satisfied with senate resolution 337 as it  stands when it would  even have uncovered the worst of the "gross improprieties" which the rules committee in its report concluded were committed by bobby baker. just to name a few of these left untouched by the scope of senate resolution 337. it would  have brought to light the payment made to baker with respect to the construction of the district of columbia stadium. the many unsecured loans given him. the socalled "finders fee" paid in connection with the sale of haitian meat. the fees he demanded for placing vending machines or the valuable gifts received by him. whatever may be said for the committees resolution. it can be considered the corrective action the committee was directed by the senate to recommend when we first authorized the investigation of bobby bakers activities. in this area at least. the authorizing resolution. senate resolution 212. was quite clear. the committee was directed by this resolution to make an investigation for the purpose of ascertaining whether "additional laws. rules. or regulations are necessary" to prohibit or restrict any improper activities found by the committee by its investigation. as has been so well brought out by the senator from delaware and by the senator from pennsylvania. we do  prevent future bobby bakers by the passage of senate resolution 337. as it  stands. unamended. the weaknesses of senate resolution 337 are many. it does  require the reporting of loans. gifts. liabilities. assets as such. and many types of financial transactions. furthermore. even as far as it does go. by setting a minimum below which outside financial interests need  be reported. senate resolution 337 would actually invite avoidance of disclosure. i am aware that there are those who do  want any part of a disclosure requirement at all. the argument is made that such a rule violates a persons privacy and deprives him of privileges enjoyed by others. these are understandable reactions to disclosure. but they miss the mark. i believe. the simple fact of the matter is that we are  like other people. we are public officials occupying positions of trust and responsibility. the people we serve and who elect us to our positions expect us to act completely in the public interest and operate openly in the glare of the public spotlight. disclosure does  prohibit outside interests and private transactions. but it does afford the public an opportunity to judge us with respect to these activities so that the electors can be satisfied that we act impartially and objectively in our public duties. otherwise. the public continues to suspect that we may serve hidden private interests. if anyone doubts the existence of such widespread suspicion. he need only consult the many letters and press accounts which have come into my office from all over the country in the wake of the bobby baker case. i have myself placed editorials testifying to the publics doubts and suspicions. furthermore. if these arguments about privacy and privileges exist. where were they when this body passed the many public laws requiring disclosure by various private groups and persons. for instance. in enacting the labormanagement reporting and disclosure act of 1959. the landrumgriffith bill. congress set up a whole series of disclosure requirements for both labor union officials and management people. this legislation was considered both reasonable and necessary to protect the public interest. similarly. when congress passed the securities act of 1933 it specified that certain information be disclosed to the public as a basis for enlightened investment judgment. time and time again we have demanded as the condition for confirmation that executive agency appointees make a full disclosure of their business interests and private holdings. what all this shows is that instead of losing privileges we have put ourselves in a special privileged class. immune from the same requirements we demand of others whose duties touch the public interest. we must put an end to this double standard.  is the time to disprove our critics who say that we have lost the integrity and good standing appropriate to what has always been considered the greatest legislative body in the world. the suggestion has been made that since the senate adopted. on friday. the amendment offered by the senator from kentucky . we do  need to go any further and do  need disclosure legislation. or a disclosure rule. as i suggested earlier this aftern. i am very happy with the action the senate took on friday. i give credit to the senator from kentucky for conceiving his amendment and for pushing it. and to the senate for adopting it. that is good. however. the select committee could very well sit as a perfectly inuous appendage of this body unless we provide it with the means with which it could operate. it must have raw materials with which to work. it must have the tools with which to do its job. it is  intended that it be an fbi or a gestapo. it must act on matters that come before it in the mal course of events. the only way in which it can be effective is by giving it what it needs to have. in order for the committee to operate effectively and do the job that we hope it will do and that the public expects it to do we must provide what it needs. and only a disclosure requirement will provide it. rather than eliminating the necessity for a disclosure requirement. the special select committee. which is authorized under the resolution adopted last friday. emphasizes the need for this retirement. i hope very much that it will be voted. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at this point two editorials. one published in the new york times of yesterday. sunday. july 26. 1964. and aher published in the washington post of july 27. today.
. i certainly do  intend to add to any acrimony that may suffuse this body on the last day of its existence. and i shall . i am sure. the senator from wisconsin has done an extraordinary job. in the opinion of the senator from new jersey. it has  been in abuse of any of the rules of the senate or of the conference or its traditions. in my. opinion. it is. rather. done in the use of those rules and procedures to accomplish a just end. just as i respect and admire the senator .from washington and his colleague for the diligence with which they have pursued a matter from a side in which they are deeply committed. in the use of all the procedures available to them in committee. formal and informal traditional and all the rest. in bringing the matter to the conclusion that they thought right. so i commend the senator from wisconsin for using all the procedures of this body. including the right of indefinite speech. to the same end. i think ody needs to be unhappy or ashamed about it. as to the specific question which the senator directed to me. i am every happy to join several of my colleagues who have said that. in the event of a disagreement in conference when the matter comesup next. i certainly do intend to support the proposition that the issue of the sst. or any other issue at that time that we think ought to be in questionbut specifically thatbe reported back to each house in disagreement so that there must be a separate vote on that issue. i think this is quite true. it is a fact that if we had separate votes on all authorizations in all bills. the legislative process would break down. indeed it would. but then any proposition pressed to those terms would present all of us with an absurdity. and it is never done. this is a large matter. it is a matter which is inherently separable from the ordinary business of running the department of transportation or the transportation system of this country. and i think that is wholly right. and here i do have a disagreement with the senator from washington. for those who so feel that we state that this is our intention in the event of a disagreement in conference next march. again i want to commend the senator from wisconsin. i do  think he has abused. in any sense. his privileges and his rights as a member of this body in the way he has handled himself. in fact. i think he has used them to produce a measure of justice and has made a contribution to a wise decision that i would venture would  have been done earlier this year.
. i have today introduced a bill to amend the legislative reorganization act in two respects: first. to give the house rules committee legislative oversight over all standing and select committees engaged in investigations. and. second. to make binding on each such investigating committee specific rules for the procedure of the committee. members. and employees and for the protection of the rights of those called as witnesses and others about whom comment may be made in the hearings adversely affecting their reputations. i am informed that the house unamerican activities committee. for example. has rules but that they are uncodified and i submit that they should be codified. the rules of procedure which are contained in the bill and are to be binding upon all investigating committees are substantially the same as those promulgated recently by the subcommittee of the judiciary committee investigating the department of justice under the distinguished chairmanship of my colleague.
 but i shall say what i have in mind on my own time. i and others have spoken out against the idea of compromise. or even consideration of the idea before the bill has been made the unfinished business. and when we yet face a motion to refer it to committee. which in my opinion. would do great harm to the bill and to this historic opportunity which we have to consider the bill. my point at this moment is to direct attention to part iii of the bill. i see a tendency.  only on the part of members of this body. but in the press throughout the country. to apologize for part iii. as though it were something which should  have been in the bill in the first place. i see occasion for such an attitude. on the contrary. i think it tends to lessen the historic importance of the measure we are considering. for this reason: part iii consists. really. of two parts. one part relates to rights which are as fundamental as the right to vote. i refer to the right to sit on a jury. the right to serve in federal office. the right to be a litigant in a federal court. and similar rights which ought to be just as undisputed as the right to vote. yet i have very rarely heard that distinction made. in terms of the general fear which is expressed of part iii. i should like to emphasize again and again and again the point if we are to protect voting rights we must equally respect the right of any citizen. regardless of his color or race. to serve in a federal office. to participate in a federal trial. or to do all the other things which are just as important to the dignity and the validity of the citizens standing in the country as is his right to vote. one day i used the expression "inalienable right to vote." and senators argued that the right was  inalienable. that it was something dependent on state law. and that we were dealing only with equal protection of the laws. as a matter of law. that is correct. so if anything. the right which is granted by the federal constitution to participate in a federal trial or the right to be a juror is at least as great in the eyes of the law and of the constitution. second. i see reason for apologizing for giving the attorney general the power to proceed in cases involving equal protection of the laws. and which relates to such subjects as school integration and the other questions which have been decided by the supreme court. these rights are the result of the interpretation of the laws of the land. to the equal protection of which every person who resides in this country. whether he be a citizen or . is entitled. we are either serious or  serious about seeing these rights enforced. if we are serious about seeing them enforced. we should wish to add measures of enforcement which are effective. we are finding. in the clinton case and the hoxey case. in the southern states. that the measures of enforcement contained in the supreme courts mandate are  alone adequate for the purpose. so i see hing to apologize for in insisting that part iii is just as important as every other part of the bill. i express the feeling that those who are really devoted to this issueanl there are many such in this chamber. and millions of such people in the countrywill  permit themselves to be scared. persuaded. panicked. or weaned away from what is really a moderate bill. the bill contains fepc provision. antilynching provision. polltax measure. and e of the other classic civil rights measures. it is a moderate bill. because it seeks only new weapons to enforce existing lawmuch of it criminal law. that observation applies just as much to the right to the vote as it does to the other rights which the supreme court has held every citizen ought to have.
exactly. in other words. in one case a person gets into court. the attorney general does . here. the attorney general gets into court for a generic class of persons. the distinction is important. it is  a distinction without a difference. the attorney general will undertake the enforcement of rights. by that i do  mean that the attorney general will undertake the enforcement of an individuals rights. rather. he will undertake the enforcement of rights of all individuals who fall in the same class. who are being discriminated against under the states publiceducation law. or. what is even more important. the states publiceducation practice.
therefore. as i state in my conclusion. it conclusively appears that a private individual has a right to seek injunctive relief for protection of civil rights. i state advisedly. . that every single right which can be protected by the attorney general in suits under part iii of the bill can be sued for by the individual under the law as it stands today. that fact. it seems to me. emphasizes and underlinesand i k we will hear a great speech on the subject by the distinguished senior senator from oregon i.mr. morse1. who is a ed lawyerthe reason why. when this matter is followed down. and the individuals rights are  secured by the power which he already has in himself. it is necessary to invoke the authority of the united states so that the majesty of the law and justice may be maintained.
. there is question about the fact that the pending and properly called historic effort has suffered its second serious defeat. the socalled jury trial amendment will materially frustrate and weaken the intercession of the equity powers of the federal courts invoked by the attorney general to secure the equal protection of the laws on voting rights in many states.  is there any question  about the formidable proof that these rights for negro citizens by the millions have been denied for years. largely under color of law. but by the abuse of lawand with a range of subterfuge. evasion. and contrivance hardly conceivably for those who have  endured it or studied its evidences. the two defeats withstanding. i have come to the conclusion that this historic hour is  lost. that it does give the opportunity to do something after 87 years during which the congress has  acted. and that it is our duty to our people and our time to continue to fight for some meaningful civil rights bill to be passed by this body. i feel i can still vote for the bill. but the danger even to what is left of the bill is by means past. and those who are for a bill need  more than ever to be sustained by reflection on the vote of 45 to 39 which brought the bill before the senate. and the vote of 71 to 18 which made it the pending business. for the strategy of its deeply dugin opponents is clear. and i believe that is borne out by the amendments we have just heard submitted. the battle is by means over. and the bill will   pass just automatically. the strategy of the opponents is to encompass a creeping defeat of the whole bill by capturing position after position of strength in the bill itself. as it came from the other body. through shifting coalitions in the senate. many taking part in these coalitions have expressed themselves as being for a meaningful righttovote bill. the responsibility resting upon them and upon their leaders is  very great. indeed. the efforts of the opponents have thus far been crowned with two major successes. after having suffered two major defeats. but the successes are the most recent. and the tide could still roll on. the bill could be bled to death by amendments. it could be talked to death by extended debate or could be filibustered. or. finally. the bill could be negotiated to death in conference. senators who favor some meaningful civilrights bill. as i do. have their work cut out for them. although this is "the morning after." we must work and fight harder than ever to keep the bill in -such shape that. in the end. we can vote for it.
. the senate is taking a very long step forward. through the effective leadership of the senator from tennessee . the senator from wisconsin . and the other members of the committee on the judiciary. in considering on the call of the calendar this very worthwhile bill. which is designed to protect the constitutional rights of defendants who can otherwise defend themselves in criminal cases. i hope very much that senators will read the description of the bill as to what it involves. the precedents which it follows throughout the nation. and the efforts of many highly dedicated lawyers who have devoted their efforts to the accomplishment of the objective of the bill. the measure has the support of the department of justice. the judicial conference of the united states. the american bar association. other bar associations. and some of the most disate 13793 tinguished leaders of the bar throughout the country. i ask unanimous consent to have a statement on the bill printed in the record at this point.
the restoration of part iii is the fundamental civil rights measure which should be considered by this congress. its consideration will constitute the acid test of the claim of senator johnson that his resolution which passed yesterday modifying the senate rules on debate that deal with filibusters has meaning and content. events since 1957 have shown that the authority of the federal government is essential to insure the enjoyment of civil rights by individual citizens particularly in the south and to sustain the hand of moderates who wish the south to be law abiding and believe that this can be effected consistently with an effective and orderly transition from social conditions which have resulted in a segregation of the races and a denial of the equal opportunities guaranteed by the constitution. along with the proposals to curb "hate bombings" and "hate mail" introduced last friday. these bills constitute excellent examples of what were the real stakes in the effort to change significantly senate rule xxii permitting filibusters. under such circumstances it seems most unlikely that we can expect real decreases in the resistance to public school desegregation which has already resulted in the closing of 13 public schools in 2 states. the resulting tension presents a climate in which flourish the activities of "hate bombers" and "hate propagandists" who operate in communities where the failure of officials to condemn one form of lawlessness tends to be taken by fanatics as encouraging other acts of violence. a repetition of 1958s inaction by congress in the months ahead on civil rights measures may make us unwilling witnesses to a series of new crises in communities throughout the south. under the terms of the bill which i am introducing. the u.s. attorney general would be empowered upon written complaint to begin civil injunctive proceedings against local officials or those conspiring with such officials to deprive a citizen of his constitutional civil rights under the 14th amendment. these include the right to attend a segregated public school. to enjoy equal opportunity to attend a public beach. public golf course. park. and other public facilities like restaurants and hotels. and to ride on trains. buses. and trolleys. other vital rights protected by the constitution are the right to vote. to serve on a jury. the right to a fair trial. and the very right to be a litigant and to enjoy unintimidated and uncoerced access to the courts of justice. under present law. an individual may bring suit for civil injunction to protect his civil rights. but in many cases such a person may  be financially able to begin proceedings. and the antibarratry statutes  on the books in six southern states make it increasingly difficult for those deprived of their rights to seek the help of others to get judicial redress. my bill would permit the attorney general to act upon showing that the person about to be deprived is himself financially unable to prosecute a civil proceeding on his own behalf. in addition. upon the request of a state or municipality seeking to carry out the provisions of the 14th amendment. but prevented from doing so because of a conspiracy or threats of violence. the attorney general is granted specific authority to seek civil injunction suits on its behalf. the supreme court in the brown case in 1954 and in several subsequent decisions has decided on the law in respect to desegregation of the public schools. but the responisbility for implementing it through adequate government organization rests primarily with congress. the successful senate passage of part iii of the act as it originally passed the house of representatives 2 years ago would fill a major gap in the federal governments ability to assure every childs constitutional right to a segregated education. president eisenhower in his state of the union message spoke with great concern of the image of america abroad and the price we must pay in terms of international prestige among our free world allies following the closing down of public schools to avoid desegregation. partially counteracting some of that damaging publicity have been the recent activities of the civil rights commission and its investigation into complaints of denial of voting rights starting in alabama. however. it has begun to work on only about 20 percent of the tasks set for it and will have completed at best half its assignments if we permit it to expire in ember of this year. the proposed extension of the commission to january 1961. as put forward by senator keating. should give it sufficient time to discharge its primary responsibility to conduct similar voting investigations in other states and study attempts to deny equal protection of the law in matters ranging from education to voting. transportation. employment. housing. public accommodations. and amusements. government facilities and state and local administration of justice. although the commission did  initially receive full cooperation from local authorities in its alabama investigation. and once again federal court orders had to be obtained. the number of complaints involving voting rights rose from 10 at the start of public hearings to 50 before their conclusion. clearly. the civil rights commission should be continued so that members of miity groups who fear they are being deprived of their right to vote have ample opportunity to press their complaints openly before a federal factfinding body empowered to make onthespot investigations.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill that would permit a state or local public official to test the authority of a congressional committee before which he is called without being liable for prosecution for criminal contempt. my colleague. the junior senator from new york . is cosponsoring the bill. the bill permits a suit for declaratory judgment in certain cases. thus allowing the courts to decide the rights of a congressional committee without requiring a public officer to stand in contempt and to risk jail for upholding the rights of aher government authority. in the recent contempt of congress conviction of austin j. tobin. executive director of the port of new york authority on june 16. 1961. u.s. district judge luther youngdahl expressed concern that there is way to test a committees rights to demand documents when the issue involves a conflict between federal and state governments. tobin was convicted for refusing. on instructions of the govers of new york and new jersey. to produce authority documents before the house judiciary committee. his conviction is  pending on appeal. in his opinion. judge youngdahl stated: the court must comment on the way in which it was necessary for mr. tobin and the authority to challenge. in good faith. congress right to subpena these documents to stand in contempt and be liable for criminal prosecution. during the house debate on the contempt citation. the committee inserted in the congressional record a memorandum purporting to show that declaratory judgment procedures were  an available means for procuring judicial resolution of the basic issues in this dispute in this case. although this question is  before the court. it does feel that if contempt is. indeed. the only existing method. congress should consider creating a method of allowing these issues to be settled by declaratory judgment. even though it may be constitutional to put a man to guessing how a court will rule on difficult questions like those raised in good faith in this suit. what is constitutional is  necessarily most desirable. especially where the contest is between different governmental units. the representative of one unit in conflict with aher should  have to risk jail to vindicate his constituencys rights. moreover. to raise these issues in the context of a contempt case is to force the courts to decide many questions that are  really relevant to the underlying problem of accommodating the interest of two sovereigns. judge youngdahls suggestion appears most constructive and appropriate and i am introducing this bill with senator keating to resolve a situation that is embarrassing and painful to all concerned. to avoid misuse. my bill would limit the declaratory judgment procedures to cases where governmental privilege or immunity is involved. and would cover only state and interstate instrumentalities and their political subdivisions. and would call for the declaratory judgment suit to be instituted in the federal court of the district of columbia. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for designation by federal courts and the courts of the district of columbia of qualified interpreters for deaf defendants in criminal cases whenever the courts determine that a defendant is unable to understand the proceedings because of deafness. this is an attempt to remedy a situation which was brought to my attention in the case of a resident of the district of columbia who was prosecuted and convicted for a pedestrian traffic violation and because of total deafness was unable to hear or understand the proceedings. the sixth amendment of the u.s. constitution guarantees to criminal defendants the right to be confronted with the witnesses against them. however. the few judicial decisions regarding deaf defendants. while recognizing that this right is substantially impaired by deafness. indicate that the courts have wide discretion as to how interpretation for deaf persons shall be accomplished. and even as to whether any interpretation is made at all. accordingly. this bill is designed to assure that in all cases a uniform technique in the federal courts and in the courts of the district of columbia is readily available for protection of the rights of such defendants. this is. of course. one part of a much larger problem involving the protection generally of the rights of criminal defendants who are in any way incapacitated from adequately defending themselves. i am a cosponsor of s. 655 introduced by senator kefauver. one of several bills introduced to provide for legal representation of indigent defendants in criminal cases in the federal district courts. these bills are pending before the senate judiciary committee. whose subcommittee on constitutional rights issued an excellent study of the problem in april of this year and strongly urged that immediate hearings be held on the measures by the full committee. i hope that the committee will consider both problems--deaf defendants and indigent defendants--in the near future. the federal court system must continually be improved so that it will serve as an example of the manner in which our institutions protect the rights of all citizens.
. i make the following statement on my own behalf and on behalf of seven other senators in introducing a bill to amend part iii of the civil rights act of 1957. in alphabetical order. the senators concerned are the senator from maryland . the senator from new jersey . the senator from kentucky . the senator from hawaii . my distinguished and beloved colleague from new york . the senator from california . and the senator from pennsylvania . i introduce the bill to authorize the attorney general to -institute or intervene in civil injunction suits in representative cases to safeguard by court order all the rights of u.s. citizens under the 14th amendment to the constitution. i send it to the desk for appropriate reference. and ask that it may be printed at this point in my remarks.
. i send to the desk. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself and senators case. fong. keating. kuchel. and scott. an amendment to strengthen the omnibus civil rights bill.  pending. by authorizing the attorney general to bring civil injunction suits to protect all rights guaranteed by the 14th amendment. the amendment constitutes the broadest and most inclusive version of the part iii proposal. which. since its deletion from the 1957 civil rights act and its piecemeal use in every civil rights measure since. has remained the most significant of all civil rights legislation proposals. the spotlight today is on a public accommodations bill. and it is a necessary and meaningful civil rights measure. but even it does  give the comparable coverage which enactment of a general part iii section would have in insuring strong federal protection of the constitutional rights of u.s. citizens in every section of the nation. i deplore the present trend of discussion. which appears fixed on watering down the omnibus civil rights bill. we who have been through previous civil cix939 rights struggles have seen the pressure for compromise mount steadily as the senate approached the crucial test of cloture. the results of past compromises have always been far short of what was needed to meet our responsibilities. and. i am sad to say. certainly far short of what might have prevented the current racial crisis. instead of discussing ways to weaken the administrations civil rights bill. let us begin discussing ways to strengthen it. for the administrations package is only a minimum program which contains wide gaps. the most important of which are the failure to seek general authority for the attorney general to bring suits in civil rights cases. and fair employment practices legislation. and. i think it may be fair to add. legislation to prevent the federal governments spending federal moneys in aid of state segregated programs. the part iii concept has had a long history. it was partially used in the measures enacted in 1957 and 1960 to secure the voting right and is in the current omnibus bill in the sections on public school desegregation and public accommodations. most state civil rights laws employ this concept. too. it is therefore a concept that has had mature consideration and considerable experience in the nation and in the states. unlike prior versions of part iii. which would have enforced only the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. the amendment introduced today seeks to protect all rights guaranteed by the 14th amendment. including. most importantly. those guaranteed by the due process clause. it is the due process clause that the supreme court. in a long series of cases culminating in the edwards case early this year. has repeatedly stated protects against state action to deny or improperly to limit the first amendments rights of assembly and petition for the redress of grievances. these traditional rights are the rights of u.s. citizens involved in the peaceful demonstrations throughout the country in this summer of negro discontent which have been a major factor in bringing the need for civil rights legislation to its present sense of urgency in the nation. in the administration. and in the congress. it is these rights which state and municipal laws and practice in a number of southern states have sought to negate. the administrations omnibus civil rights bill has only partially recognized the long struggle for part iii. the administrations bill includes a similar. but more conditional. enforcement procedure in the public accommodations section and in the public school desegregation section. there is question about the fact that these would be most vital laws. but two other vital areas are iged entirely by the administration bill. one is the protection of first amendment rights. which involve the demonstrations for civil rights. the significance of federal protection of demonstrations which are peaceful and in conformity with local police regulations as are proper can hardly be underestimated. the total inability of the attorney general to act in these situations under existing law is manifest and conceded by the attorney general himself. during the birmingham. ala.. crisis. where thousands of negro demonstrators were arrested. the justice department made it patently clear to a number of members of congress that. short of wholly informal compliance efforts. the department had statutory authority to place the matter in the federal courts where it belonged. this incapacity persists and becomes aggravated as demonstrations spread throughout the country. thousands of demonstrators are arrested in city after city although they have complied with local police regulations insofar as they are appropriate under decisions of the u.s. supreme court. but to prove this  involves either a long period in jail awaiting trial and appeal through the state courts. and ultimately to the supreme court of the united states. or the highly expensive posting of bail during that long process. the problems of raising bail are emous and tax  only the civil rights advocates themselves. but the trade unions which seek to help. even where the most flagrant violation of the first amendment is involved in this police suppression of the right to demonstrate peaceably. the attorney general can do little more than express sympathy. the emous cost of the process of appeal must be borne by the defendants and by private organizations. the federal courts are of little or help though the law be on the side of the defendants until the state procedures have been exhausted. yet federal rights. guaranteed by the 1st amendment to the constitution and by the due process clause of the 14th. have in many of these cases been violated by the states. despite this clear frustration of federal rights. the attorney general takes the position. in a recent answer to a letter i sent to him about part iii. that this provision is  necessary. it is wonder that negroes demonstrate in the streets when they are frustrated in this way in the enjoyment of the basic right to demonstrate peaceably. the second major area which the administration bill iges entirely is that of police action in particular and the administraton of criminal justice generally. the u.s. civil rights commission in its 1961 report devoted almost an entire volume to this crucial field. its more than 100page report on this subject is a monument to the urgent need for a broad part iii provision enabling the attorney general to step into cases of unlawful official violence about which the commission made the following unanimous findings. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
880077432|. in brief. my original letter to mr. marshall dated april 15. 1963. expressed my view that every necessary step should be taken by the federal government to protect the rights and safety of citizens involved in civil rights activities and requested a report on the situation from the department. in a reply dated the very next day. april 16. mr. marshall outlined the steps which the department had initiated and stated that every reported case was being investigated as rapidly as humanly possible. at the same time. and this is most pertinent in connection with this amendment. mr. marshall pointed out that these cases are difficult. however. for the reason that we are required to prove that the defendants purpose was to interfere with registration and voting." in view of this statement. i wrote to mr. marshall again on april 22. 1963. more than 3 months ago. asking his comments on whether the situation would be improved by legislation authorizing the attorney general "to institute civil injunctive suits in all civil rights cases. and  just voting cases. and whether the department would favor such legislation." to date reply has been received to my april 22 letter. i hasten to say that i do  say this critically because i am aware of the many problems which the department of justice has and k of the efforts which mr. marshall personally is making to help resolve these issues. he is an able and dedicated lawyer. and i am certain that he is doing the best he can with the means available to him to carry out his responsibilities. there is. however. a glaring gap in the legal arsenal of the federal government if the department can institute suits to protect negro citizens peaceably demonstrating for equal rights from being set upon by dogs. doused with water hoses. and subjected to mass arrests. recently the senate unanimously approved socalled public defender leglslation. i was a cosponsor and strong supporter of this legislation. but what about a public defender for lawabiding citizens attempting to enjoy their rights under the constitution. men. women. and children struggling for equal protection of the law certainly deserve and need the help of their government at least as much as suspected criminals attempting to beat a rap. let those who think we have moved too far in the field of civil rights consider for a moment the contrast between what the federal government does to prosecute unfair trade practices and unfair labor practices with what it does to protect against deprivations of civil rights of the most outrageous and shocking character. in 1957. while i was a member of the other body. the house approved a civil rights bill which included a provision to give the attorney general the authority needed to deal with all violations of all 14th amendment rights and  just violations of voting rights. unfortunately. that provision was rejected in the senate and a watereddown bill was all that could be enacted. as a result. 6 more crucial years have been lost in equipping the federal government with the jurisdiction it must have to enforce the 14th amendment to the constitution. the proposed civil rights act of 1963 would extend the civil injunctive procedures  limited to voting cases to school desegregation and public accommodations cases. this certainly is a step in the right direction. but there is reason for the federal government to deal with this subject in such a qualified and reluctant manner. hing is more likely to encourage resort to the selfhelp measures deplored by the opponents of civil rights as the inadequacy of legal remedies for the enforcement of constitutional rights. this amendment would do much to strengthen the proposed bill and its inclusion in s. 1731 is essential if we intend to take meaningful action on civil rights during this session of congress. i can think of provision of greater importance to include in the civil rights act than the socalled part 3 provision. i commend my colleague from new york for the leadership he has taken in this field.
i spoke of physical intimidation. i do  have the specific case of the sheriff. in the brief time i have had to look for the case. but let me read from page 162 of the report of the civil rights commission of 1961. it relates to a county in mississippi. and reads as follows: in one county the supervisor of registration is a former chain gang boss who on occasion walks up and down among negroes waiting to register. holding a sawedoff pool cue stick and mumbling "i cant see why youall come here to register when you k youre  ready." more subtle means are also used in four counties to dissuade negroes from registering and voting: registering and polling facilities are sometimes located in white schools. sheriffs offices. and white newspaper editors offices. places that are unfamiliar and usually forbidden ground to negroes. in all. such discriminatory measures were found in 10 of the 17 counties. even more as an explanation for failure of negros to register. however. was fear of reprisals by the white community. whether the senator will accept it or . the fact is that this is a report by an authoritative commission. made up of distinguished men appointed expressly for this purpose. three from the th and three from the south. they did  differ as to the facts. they may have differed on mi elements in the recommendations. one demurred on the findings of fact. so i respectfully submit that the findings are binding on us. and that the criminal laws to which the senator has referred do  work. therefore. we must find laws that do work. i think we all agree that this is the holiest of all the holy rights of citizens.
i gave the voting example myself when the senators first amendment was pending. i hope it impressed the senator. i think it is a satisfactory and important change in his amendment. i do feel that was a signal case. but i  refer to cases involving other public officials. who might be prejudicing irremedial rights that can be restored. in the case of desegregation of schools. whatever months or years might be lost. would be lost irremediably if there were deterrent in the way the senator has suggested. again. i do  say that southern juries are different from other juries. i am talking about the mind of the defendant himself. he might feel he is less likely to be punished if a jury trial is assured.
in the new rochelle case. the court dealt with the civil right to desegregate through the use of busing. that is entirely agreeable to us. . i call this the "red herring" amendment. it seeks to equate racial imbalance with segregation which is interdicted by the constitution. by the supreme court. and by the law which we are trying to enact. i am glad this amendment is before the senate. i think it is high time that the senate express itself decisively upon this point.
 of the united states. equally. i rise to reiterate my deep feelingand i believe it. is the feeling of most members of the senatethat if a citizen is inhibited by terror. the terror of excessive police action. from exercising  only his right to seek the opportunity to vote. but also his constitutional right to petition or to march. or to do anything within the grounds of constitutional guarantees to express his point of view. then. too. the united states must protect him in his exercise of that right and to see that terror is  substituted for law. i repeat. i hope and pray that patriotism will prevail over local social customs and social orders on this question. and that the local authorities themselves will see what a dangerous course they are embarked upon in forcing a confrontation between the united states and the authorities of a sovereign state. which can only result. if this nation is to survive. in the authority of the united states being sustained in terms of the rights of its individual citizens.
subsequently said: . i had the ho to be designated by the committee on the judiciary to report the ination of john doar. of wisconsin. i listened with the greatest of interest to the oral testimony of mr. doar before the committee on the judiciary. mr. doar showed such an extraordinary sense of discernment as a lawyer with respect to the civil rights field as to make me feel that the united states was really getting  only a public servant of high character. but also a public servant who had done an emous amount of homework and would serve the department of justice and the nation well both with respect to the policy and legal phases of this very important and critical job to which he has been appointed. the testimony of mr. doar confirmed to me that what we are trying to substitute for the need. and i emphasize that word "need." for demonstrations is a process of law by which people can very effectively express themselves without undertaking the risk of these confrontations as so many le. selfsacrificing. and dedicated americans have done. in order to achieve that objective. the majesty of the united states and those in power must be interposed without hesitation in order to secure for the individual his rights as a u.s. citizen. these rights are too often denied in some of our southern states on the grounds of some established social order. or on what i think constitutes an abuse of the doctrine of states rights. the post which mr. doar holds is critically important to the peace and tranquility of america and to justice in this country in a vital area of relations between the races. when a man demonstrates qualities of mind and loyalty. such as mr. doar demonstrated in his testimony before the committee. i think it is time to congratulate  only mr. doar and the department. but also the people of the united states for having a public servant of this character. i am very grateful. therefore. that the senate has confirmed the ination of mr. doar.
in regard to what the senator has said about how new york state allows its citizens to vote. the fact is that i offered the amendment in committee which would allow puerto ricans to vote who are able to read and write spanish. laying that asidewhich is quite gratuitousi knew exactly what i was talking about. because if the senator will read the provision to which he has referred. on page 16 of the bill. with relation to the 5year continuance of jurisdiction. he will see that it in fact refers to tests or devices. in short. both the provision of section 4(a) relating to discrimination in the preceding 5 years. and the provision of the bill which keeps a court decree open for 5 years after it has been entered. relate to tests or devices. the point i was making was that areas without tests. but covered by the 25percent trigger. are dealt with in section 4(a) (2) of the bill. which relates to the participation of 60 percent of persons of voting age and the showing of discrimination. therefore. i still maintain that a county which can demonstrate that it has  been discriminating. that it has  been utilizing whatever procedures it does have. aside from a literacy test. for the purpose of denying or abridging the right to vote. would  find itself caught under the judicial review provisions of the bill and would speedily be out of it. i agree with the senator from florida that they would have to come into court. if the attorney general sought to apply this law to them. i do  wish to protract this colloquy any longer. because i realize that the senator from louisiana has some remarks he wishes to make. and the senate wishes to adjourn. but in future debate i hope that we can pinpoint exactly what other provisions the senator from florida. or other senators. might believe to be fair in order to deal with the specific situation. i agree with the senator from florida that if the attorney general moves into a county. it would have to go into court. but i say that. once in court. it has an adequate way out of the situation in which it finds itself. that is my whole point.
. passage by the senate today of s. 1357. the ball reform act of 1965. marks a historic effort to bring much needed reform to bail procedures in the federal courts and the courts of the district of columbia. the reform brought about by this measure. of which i am pleased to be a cosponsor. will insure improved and fairer methods of treatment of the thousands of citizens accused of crimes each year who are confined before their inence or guilt has been determined by a court of law because there is any substantial doubt that they will appear for trial if released. but because they can afford bail. early in this congress the subcommittee on constitutional rights of which i am a member and the subcommittee on improvements in judicial machinery jointly issued a report entitled "constitutional rights and federal bail procedures." the principal conclusion of the report was that the defects in federal bail practices stem. in large part. from the fact that bail decisions rely primarily upon financial inducements to insure the presence of the accused at trial. rather than his character. employment. residence. or other community ties. our present bail system has created many inequities. the fact of pretrial confinement or liberty should  depend on the question of whether a citizen can ecoically afford bail. a citizen deprived of his liberty because he is unable to afford bail is frequently handicapped in preparing his defense and often unable to support his family which may be forced to suffer both ecoic loss and public opprobrium as a result of the confinement even though the citizen may at a later date be found  guilty. s. 1357 takes significant steps towards the much needed objective of bail reform. the bill provides. among other things for release in capital cases upon personal recognizance or unsecured bonds unless a judicial officer determines. upon good cause shown that such a release will  reasonably assure the appearance of the accused as required. the bill provides for appeal of release orders by persons aggrieved by the release conditions imposed and provides credit for pretrial confinement against any fine imposed by a court as well as against any sentence imposed. it also provides for the amendment of release orders to impose different conditions. the leadership in this reform provided by the distinguished senator from th carolina . chairman of the constitutional rights subcommittee. and the senator from maryland . chairman of the subcommittee on improvements in judicial machinery has been of great importance in obtaining this greatly needed revision of existing bail practices. i very much hope that this legislation will be enacted and the principles of justice and fairness carried out fully under the newly established bail procedures.
that is exactly right. it requires reference to a critically important case in this debate which holds that hing in any treaty supersedes the constitution. it may supersede state or federal laws. but  the constitution. therefore the constitutional rights of every individual so charged would be preserved. that is the case of reid v. covert. 354 u.s. 1. as i have pointed out. the very treaty itself calls for trial of an individual by a competent tribunal in the territory in which the act was committed and that would be this territory. the united states of america. the implementing legislation which we will have full power to deal with. will make crystal clear that we are in way superseding the homicide statutes. or the murder statutes of any state. or of the united states. and that these jurisdictions will go on unimpaired. as they always have. it seems to me that that is absolutely a complete structure. leaving "out" by which some such wild result as is feared could be obtained.
before the treaty goes into effect an implementing statute which has been submitted to us will have to be passed and we are  going to pass anything less. the senate is sure of that. there is provided in section 2: the remedies provided in this act shall be the exclusive means of enforcing the rights based on it. but hing in the act shall be construed as indicating an intent on the part of the congress to occupy. to the exclusion of state or local laws on the same subject matter. the field in which the provisions of the act operate  shall those provisions be construed to invalidate a provision of state law unless it is inconsistent with the purposes of the act or the provisions of it. then it goes on to say. in section 3 and i would intend to strengthen this when it comes to us: it is the sense of the congress that the secretary of state in negotiating extradition treaties or conventions shall reserve for the united states the right to refuse extradition of a united states national to a foreign country for an offense defined in chapter 50a of title 18. united states code. when the offense has been committed outside the united states. and (a) where the united states is competent to prosecute the person whose surrender is sought. and intends to exercise its jurisdiction. or (b) where the person whose surrender is sought has already been or is at the time of the request being prosecuted for such offense. . with the relationship stated in the treaty itself between the treaty and the implementing legislation. i just can see how we can have any more impervious protection of the individual. that he would be tried here. unless we. as a conscious act of government. decided we wished him to be tried elsewhere. that we can do in any case. which is an extradition rightor we have this treaty. so the real value of the treaty is its fantastically important impact. after almost a quarter of a century and the declaration of our country that it is against geide. at the same time. the fantastic interlocking is felt in safeguards that. if anyone in this country is guilty of any such crime which is performed elsewhere and he is charged with it. that we. and we alone have the right to try that person unless we. as a conscious governmental act. decide otherwise. i can see how one can do more than that. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i wish to join my colleagues in paying tribute to senator sam ervm whose long. distinguished. indeed remarkable. public career is  coming to an end. it has been my privilege to serve with him. to join with him in many legislative battles. and also to oppose him on issues upon which we deeply disagreed. he has been to me both a staunch and effective ally. and a respected and hoable adversary. i have particularly enjoyed serving with him on the government operations committee where in the past year an emous amount of important public law originated. including the extraordinary congressional budget and impoundment control act. sam ervin has been a profound believer in the individuals rights and has won landmark battles in his struggle to protect the freedom of the individual from the power of the state. he has always believed that the constitution could and should be made to work. and he has tirelessly espoused the position that the words of that document meant exactly what they said. in this modern age. we frequently hear that freedom for the individual is sometimes incompatible with the needs of a modern. industrialized urban society. senator ervin has demonstrated again and again that that freedom for the individual is based  on relics of 18th century utopianism. in this last session of congress alone. he has labored mightily to enact legislation to establish a federal privacy board to oversee the gathering and disclosure of information concerning individuals by federal. state. and local governments. he has sought to promote governmental respect for the privacy of citizens by requiring all departments and agencies of the executive branch and their employees to observe constitutional rules in the computerization collection. management. use. and disclosure of personal information about individuals. i had the privilege of joining with him in developing this legislation. as well as on a number of other measures. his leadership this year in repealing the "k" provisions of the federal and district of columbia drug enforcement laws. and his determined investigation of army surveillance programs aimed at civilian political activities are but two examples of his extraordinary contributions to the public interest. comment about the public life and achievements of sam ervin could be complete without reference to his extraordinary role in the investigation of the entire watergate matter. his sensitivity to the clearcut assaults on the bill of rights which were at the heart of this tragic episode had a significant impact in setting in motion the ultimate vindication of our constitutional system. the power at the disposal of any modern government to repress the individual is fearsome. senator eavnes long vigilance in preserving that freedom is his greatest legacy.
. hundreds of hours of painstaking labor have been spent by many persons in the development of title ii. i would particularly like to commend mike francis of senator staffords staff. lisa walker. judy heumann. and nik edes of senator williams staff. pat forsythe. ann hocutt. and bob humphreys of senator randolphs staff. jon steinberg and louise ringwalt of senator cranstons staff. and clare comiskey of senator bealls staff for their ideas. effort. enthusiasm. skill. and persistence in readying this measure for passage by the senate and for conference with the house. this bill of rights represents a reaffirmation of the basic human and civil rights of all citizens. it offers the direction to provide a valid and realistic framework for improving the overall situation of this countrys mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled individuals. progress toward recognition of the basic human and civil rights of the mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled persons has been slow. the federal government has largely abrogated its responsibility in this regard and recently the greatest initiatives have come from our courts. for example. a 1972 decision of a u.s. district court in the case of wyatt against stickney set forth constitutionally required minimum standards for the care and treatment of mentally retarded patients. before the supreme court at this time. is ocon against donaldson in which the u.s. court of appeals of the fifth circuit held that a mental patient in a public institution has a constitutional right to treatment. congress should reaffirm its belief in equal rights for all citizensincluding the developmentally disabled. congress should provide the leadership to change the tragic warehousing of human beings that has been the product of insensitive federal support of facilities providing inhumane care and treatment of the mentally retarded. the bill of rights of s. 462 represents this new direction. and begins this reaffirmation.
i thank our colleague for his support and certainly feel very strongly that way myself. this key point is contained in section 203 of the presidents draft as sent to us yesterday. so members can look at it and be keyed to it. the other differences between the presidents ideas and our ideas are contained in sections 211. 213. and 214(c). if members will follow me. i will endeavor to lay that out for them. section 211 is found at page 71 and would propose to relieve the attorney general of the responsibilities undertaken by the congressional legal counsel pursuant to the resolution adopted by one house or by both houses. in that section. we think the president has a legitimate point. in that it is left somewhat unclear whether in all matters we do  endeavor to preempt the attorney general. we will clarify that by amendments which we will propose. to make it clear that we do  seek to preempt the attorney general. we wish to assert the personality of congress in respect of what is done. the other section which the presidents draft omits is section 213. which is found at page 73. that gives us jurisdiction and standing in court for the congressional counsel and locates the jurisdiction in the district of columbia. it seems to me that we can do anything else as a congress than that. and we shall have to stand by that particular section. the last point at issue is contained in section 214(c). which is found at page 79. and proposes to limit somewhat the ability of the attorney general to have freedom of action in arguing questions of constitutionality. it is my understanding that senator abourezk is going to move to strike that. and i shall certainly agree. again upon the idea that we should  in any way preempt the attorney general. either as to the nature of his argument or as to his right to appear. provided we have an equal right to appear in respect of these constitutional questions. other than that. the presidents draft tracks exactly title ii of the bill. i have given members the best i can. based on study until 3 oclock this morning. i think i have covered all the points of difference between the presidents draft and our own. to sum up: in title ii.  a great deal of money is involved. it is estimated that an office such as this would cost $500.000 a year. and that estimate is found in the committee report at page 90. we should keep in mind the service we will get. the distinction. the eminence of the congressional counsel. and the fact that congress will be able to have its own machinery to express its own views and promote its interests. in respect of issues of constitutionality. bearing in mind that we are  supposed to vote for measures. even if we may like them. which we believe to be unconstitutional. and. therefore. impliedly. we certify to the constitutionality of every act we take. we are  just tossing it up to the supreme court. we have to have the ho and the conscience to defend our handiwork. and that is what this particular title is all about. i hope very much that. as outlined by me. the senate will sustain this proposal.
 the senate can and will  do that. of course. because in many cases there are matters which involve individual rights to determine national issues and national rights. that is why i said what i did. and i think i am right. that each court will have to determine whether or  under this law it has jurisdiction. if it determines it has. that is subject to appeal.
