. today i rise in strong support of s. 350. the brownfields revitalization and environmental restoration act of 2001. this bill has won the support of the bush administration. dozens of organizations. and 68 cosponsors in the senate. today. the senate has the opportunity to pass this bipartisan. proenvironment and proecoic development bill. brownfields are the legacy of our nations industrial heritage. a changing industrialized ecoy. the migration of land use from urban to suburban and rural areas. and our nations strict liability contamination laws have all contributed to the presence of abandoned industrial sites. with more than 450.000 brownfield sites nationwide. we must begin to reclaim those lands. clean up our communities. and discontinue the practice of placing new industrial facilities on open. green spaces. .as a former mayor. i understand the environmental. ecoic. and social benefits that can be realized .in our communities from revitalizing brownfields. while the environmental and social benefits can seem obvious. only a mayor understands the continuing fiscal expense to our nations municipalities of the hundreds of thousands of pieces of prime real estate that have dropped from the tax rolls. enactment of this legislation will provide a building block for the revitalization of our communities. communities whose fortunes sank along with the decline of mills and factories will once again attract new residents and wellpaying jobs. we will bring vibrant industry back to the brownfield sites that currently host crime. mischief and contamination. there will be parks at sites that  contain more rubble than grass. city tax rolls will burgeon. neighborhoods can be invigorated. new homes can be built. and community character will be restored. s. 350 enjoys broad bipartisan support.  only is it supported by the bush administration. the bills predecessor was supported by the clinton administration last session. the bill is strongly supported by the nations mayors. state elected officials. the real estate industry. open space advocates. business groups. and environmental organizations. rarely do we see these organizations come together on the same side of an issue. this high level of support is testimony to the bipartisan nature of the legislation. it demonstrates that we can forge sound legislation. and balance the needs of the environment and the ecoy if we come to the table with open minds and good intentions. i would like to thank the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee for his leadership on this issue. senator sith. his tireless efforts over that time have certainly paved the way for this legislation. i also would like to extend my appreciation to senator reid of nevada and senator boxer for their commitment to this issue and the bipartisan process which has proven so successful. in addition. let me thank the staff that has worked so hard on this bill: david coer. chelsea maxwell. and marty hall of senator smiths staff. lisa haage of senator reids staff. sara barth of senator boxers staff. and ted michaels of my staff. the issue of brownfields has been discussed for nearly a decade. while i was mayor of warwick. my fax machine constantly fed me alerts from the u.s. conference of mayors seeking my support for brownfields reform. with this legislation today. we have the opportunity to protect the environment. strengthen local ecoies. and revitalize our communities. i urge each of my colleagues to vote in favor of s. 350 and give each mayor across the country the benefit of the full potential of their real estate.
. today i rise in strong support of s. 350. the brownfields revitalization and environmental restoration act of 2001. this bill has won the support of the bush administration. dozens of organizations. and 68 cosponsors in the senate. today. the senate has the opportunity to pass this bipartisan. proenvironment and proecoic development bill. brownfields are the legacy of our nations industrial heritage. a changing industrialized ecoy. the migration of land use from urban to suburban and rural areas. and our nations strict liability contamination laws have all contributed to the presence of abandoned industrial sites. with more than 450.000 brownfield sites nationwide. we must begin to reclaim those lands. clean up our communities. and discontinue the practice of placing new industrial facilities on open. green spaces. .as a former mayor. i understand the environmental. ecoic. and social benefits that can be realized .in our communities from revitalizing brownfields. while the environmental and social benefits can seem obvious. only a mayor understands the continuing fiscal expense to our nations municipalities of the hundreds of thousands of pieces of prime real estate that have dropped from the tax rolls. enactment of this legislation will provide a building block for the revitalization of our communities. communities whose fortunes sank along with the decline of mills and factories will once again attract new residents and wellpaying jobs. we will bring vibrant industry back to the brownfield sites that currently host crime. mischief and contamination. there will be parks at sites that  contain more rubble than grass. city tax rolls will burgeon. neighborhoods can be invigorated. new homes can be built. and community character will be restored. s. 350 enjoys broad bipartisan support.  only is it supported by the bush administration. the bills predecessor was supported by the clinton administration last session. the bill is strongly supported by the nations mayors. state elected officials. the real estate industry. open space advocates. business groups. and environmental organizations. rarely do we see these organizations come together on the same side of an issue. this high level of support is testimony to the bipartisan nature of the legislation. it demonstrates that we can forge sound legislation. and balance the needs of the environment and the ecoy if we come to the table with open minds and good intentions. i would like to thank the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee for his leadership on this issue. senator sith. his tireless efforts over that time have certainly paved the way for this legislation. i also would like to extend my appreciation to senator reid of nevada and senator boxer for their commitment to this issue and the bipartisan process which has proven so successful. in addition. let me thank the staff that has worked so hard on this bill: david coer. chelsea maxwell. and marty hall of senator smiths staff. lisa haage of senator reids staff. sara barth of senator boxers staff. and ted michaels of my staff. the issue of brownfields has been discussed for nearly a decade. while i was mayor of warwick. my fax machine constantly fed me alerts from the u.s. conference of mayors seeking my support for brownfields reform. with this legislation today. we have the opportunity to protect the environment. strengthen local ecoies. and revitalize our communities. i urge each of my colleagues to vote in favor of s. 350 and give each mayor across the country the benefit of the full potential of their real estate.
i wish to commend the gentleman from missouri on his very instructive ecoic analysis. i could  help but be intrigued. myself. with the comparison to the situation in new york city. where my predecessor. your friend. congressman john lindsay from the 17th district. when he took office as mayor of the city of new york. found that the previous democratic administration had mortgaged the future in terms of fiscal expenditures. he was then in the position of having to make up  only for the current operating expense but also for that which had already been spent. and that could very well happen here if we get a republican president.
. today i am introducing a bill which deals with the industrial cost recovery provision of the clean water act. i am pleased to e that senator pressler joins as a cosponsor of this legislation. my bill totally repeals the cost recovery provision. originally enacted in 1972. congress required a moratorium on icr in section 75 of the clean water amendments of 1977. so that the administrator of epa could conduct the mandated 12month study of icr and its effects. that study is complete and it gives impetus to my belief that icr should be abolished. but let me go back and provide some background on what the icr issue is all about. icr requires that industrial users of a municipal sewage treatment plant pay for that portion of the federal share of the plants construction costs which is attributable to the treatment of the industrial wastes. the administrative burden falls on the towns and cities who must collect these charges. icr can bring harsh ecoic effects and administrative costs to industries and communities in my state and the theast. irc rates tend to be higher in older cities. especially in the theast. and in small- to mediumsized communities. as a conferee on the 1977 clean water amendments. i felt that we needed to take a long look at the industrial cost recovery provision. the conferees on the amendments adopted and the congress affirmed the decision to mandate the moratorium and require the study. the epa administrator was directed to examine icrs effects on industries and communities. both in rural areas and in ecoically distressed or high unemployment regions. the study was to be sent to the congress by december 27. 1978. epa did  miss that date by much. we received their report in late january. the epa study draws from a diverse group of industries and communities. material was gathered from 227 sanitary agencies and 394 industrial plants. although the study team concentrated on six industry types. to my kledge they were willing to work with other industries as well. the communities visited ranged in size from ravenna. nebr.. and woonsocket. r.i. to new york city. the conclusion. the epa administrator determined that icr is  doing its job. the provision fails dismally to accomplish the purposes for which it was written. these purposes have been summarized as parity. water conservation. appropriate capacity. and selfsufficiency. let me provide a brief rundown on how icr falls short. parity was an issue when icr was originally enacted. some people thought that industries hooking into a municipal treatment plant were getting a free ride without icr. yet. epa has found that it is often less expensive for an industry to build its own treatment facility than to dispose its wastes into a municipal rlant. part of this is due to the fact that industry must pay operation and maintenance charges. as well as local debt service. for a public plant. also. changes in the tax rate structure favor self -treatment. and industry pays taxes too. just as do residential users. all in all. the epa administrator concluded that the construction grant program does  provide a subsidy to industrial users. water conservation was aher paramount goal of icr. yet the cost recovery provision has had little effect on water conservation. when compared to the success achieved through proportionate user charges. the industrial plants surveyed reported an average reduction in water use of 29 percent. but they pointed to user charges and water rates as the impetus. icr is  credited with encouraging water conservation. precaution against overly excessive treatment plant capacity was still aher reason given for the approval of icr in 1972. a plant should be built with egh capacity to serve existing domestic. commercial. and industrial needs. with a sufficient capacity for projected growth in these three areas. yet. the epa study found that icr did  affect decisions on sizing of plants or deter construction of excess capacity. actually. the epa and communities appear to have tackled the capacity problem in other waysfor example. by use of the agencys cost effectiveness guidelines. epa has determined that reserve capacity for facilities should mally be 20 to 40 percent of design load. with more reserve needed in areas of unusually high growth. the study team found that the average plant has about 32 percent reserve capacity. which is within the range essential for cost effective design. as for the selfsufficiency of municipalities in providing for their own sewage treatment needs. the epa reported that the amount able to be retained by the grantees will  make a significant contribution toward their financial capability to meet the costs of future expansion and upgrading of their treatment works. this is especially true when you consider two things: first. while collecting icr over a 30year period. the grantees administrative costs go up. second. inflation eats up part of what expansion work can be done with the dollars eventually collected. in 1972. when icr was originally enacted. potential dollar recovery was expected to be $4.5 to $7 billion. but . based on assumed eventual grants. epa says that the total icr revenues may amount to considerably less-$l to $2 billion over 30 years. by the time 50 percent is given back to the federal treasury and administrative costs are covered by the granteeretained portion. there is little on which to base local government wastewater treatment self sufficiency. the epa study does  contain horror stories of closed plants or mass forfeiture of jobs. due to icr. however. i would argue that an industrial cost recovery charge is. indeed. a factor when an industry decides whether to expand or locate a new plant in a particular area. so we are sometimes talking about a loss of potential jobs in a community. if that community must assess an icr charge. because of constrtuction grant expenditures after 1973. further. although an industry or business may  identify icr as the sole reason for a shutdown or move. i would submit that icr is one of a combination of items that can drag down a marginal business. icr fails to accomplish the goals intended by the congress in 1972. this does  mean that such goals. especially water conservation. are suspect. other sections of the clean water act spur efforts to meet these needs. and as we move toward the next overall look at the clean water act. prior to the fiscal year 1982 reauthorization deadline. i look forward to hearing suggestions from epa and others as to what we can do to improve our chances to meet these goals. but it is my belief that there is need to beat a dead horseto get a performance from icr which it can provide. the costs. both to municipalities and business. are highly disproportionate to the extremely slight role of icr in meeting the needs i mentioned earlier. thus. i am introducing thin legislation today and ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. this amendment really guts the minimum tax. we adopted the minimum tax as a reform so that everyone in the united states would pay some tax.  we opened a little loophole a little while ago when we adopted the dodd amendment. those who bought the municipal general obligation bonds had this loophole they could go through.  we are widening it to a cavers opening that would permit all idbs to qualify and anyone who votes for this in effect is saying the rich can get away with paying taxes. we have worked it out for you. this is a great big opportunity. we have backed away from our sense of reform that everyone would have to pay something. i do hope we will reject this amendment.
i think one of the good things that will come out of this whole new york crisis. and the senator is old egh to remember that every cloud has a silver lining. is that other cities and states across this nation will recognize that they have to live within their means. just as each of us as individuals has to live within his means. i also hope that out of this will come full disclosure of municipal financing and of state financing. which we really have  had in the past. out of it will also come an awareness on the part of the american people of municipal financing. state financing. and town financing in the areas in which they live. so there will be some good that will come out of it. but the senator raises the question. what are our options. and i think even our presidentwho was strongly opposed as to any loan guaranteesin his initial talk on this subject said: i will  allow the services for the people of new york to be terminated or stopped. of course. he was talking about police. firemen. health. and the like. which meant that the president was ready to come in at all times to give some assistance to the city of new york so that it could continue its vital services to its people. without going the loan guarantee route. i think what he proposed it. if my recollection is correct. were debt certificates. and there would have been some need for debt certificates to finance necessary spending. i think $1.3 billion was the figure it would cost to continue essential services.
the senator from missouri would have our colleagues believe there has been white flight in boston because of the courtordered busing. that is  the case. the mayor of the city of boston appeared before our delegation just the other day. and he states there has been some white flight. but it has been due mostly to increased taxes and insurance costs.  to courtordered busing in the city of boston. i want the senator to be correct in the information which he gives to the senate. if we were to look through these other cities. we would find out that courtordered busing has  been responsible for white flight.
. a series of reports have been releasedthe gaither report. the rockefeller report. the findings of the american municipal association. the budget messageseeking to emphasize the critical importance of civil defense. especially in terms of radioactive fallout. if we are to provide help to the communities. so that they may do the jobs we want them to do. we certainly should leave doubt about the fact that the communities can avail themselves of the provisions of law which affect so critically a municipal protection such as civil defense. i am grateful to the senator from arkansas for his willingness to see the bill clarified in this manner. and i hope very much the amendment will be agreed to.
when we discussed the bill in committee. very deep feeling was expressed by me and other representatives of great cities with regard to its provisions. and i think for a sound reason. i appeal to my friend from indiana. who has been extremely fair in the consideration of the bill. and with whom i have found a delight to work in the committee. upon this ground. the overwhelming majority of american people live in the great cities of our nation. my home city of new york and its environs has a population of 12 million. and we probably carry on the most extensive urban renewal program in the united states. more than 60 percent of the american people live in the great cities . and it is estimated that within a decade or a decade and a half the percentage will be 80 percent. we have provided extensive programs for farms and for many other things which benefit rural areas. since we are the principal source of tax funds which support all these programs. i suggest that there are many things which can be done to benefit a great city. all senators have been to new york and have seen the miracle which urban renewal has performedthe miracle of transformationand how much more of it is required. the $350 millio which is provided in the bill would give us an opportunity at least to look ahead and to plan ahead with confidence in connection with these vast enterprises which take time in order to develop and progress. it is the old story of the carrot and the stick. the stick is that we have emous problems in dealing with our slum areas in the big cities. the carrot is the municipality which has an objective toward which to push. the american municipal association feels that $350 million is just about right. the mayors of cities think the amount ought to be a great deal more. my dear friend from indiana thinks the amount should be a great deal less. i believe $350 million is a fair amount. and i urge upon all senators the fact that here is something that we can do for the big cities in a sound. businesslike. effective and useful program. and i hope very much that the amendment will  be agreed to.
. the mayor or gover can declare bankruptcy or liquidate the business when the going gets too tough. furthermore. simple survival in this business is  egh in a country whose citizens seek from their governments more and more in the way of modern social services. nevertheless. our state and local governments face the grim prospect of being unable to do business if present conditions continue. if what we say about improving the quality of life is to get beyond the rhetoric state. we must surely take a hard look at the financing of those state and local governments on the firing line. and be prepared to accept bold solutions. revenue sharing is one such solution. i urge its passage with the least possible delay.
. change is always disruptivethat is its nature. but when it is attempted to be effected unilaterally by the executive branch midstream in a fiscal year and contrary to previous actions agreed to by congress and the executive branch. it can do downright violence to the helpless citizens and managers on the state and local level caught in the crunch. to them it has been more than an academic debate. these actions have had their toll on and have disrupted millions of people. thousands of units of state and local government and other institutions. and adversely affected the use of billions of the taxpayers money. the administrations actions have touched 26.5 million persons in poverty. more than 1.7 million youth in the target group for summer jobs. 4.6 million families. and an additional 3 million aged. blind. and disabled persons receiving social services. the actions have undermined the planning of 1.000 community action agencies. 15.000 units of city government and each of the state governments  only in areas directly affected. but also in related areas such as welfare. housing. and ecoic development planning. as well as related private commitments. when one piece is held in suspension. an entire structure of community planning may be put in jeopardy. these actions have put in "limbo" the expenditure of all or a part of $800 million in oeo antipoverty funds. $1.25 billion in emergency employment act appropriations. and $265 million in neighborhood youth corps funds. as well as $2.5 billion in funds for social services.
my meeting with president giscard destaing took place in the elysee palace on monday morning. july 10. 1978. i have kn president giscard personally for 20 years and have discussed political and ecoic ideas with him on occasion during all that time. our meeting on july 10 was the first we had had since the important french parliamentary elections of last may. in my judgment. those elections had great significance.  only for france but for all the democracies of the west. in the months leading up to the elections. it had been predicted widely in the press that they would be won by the socialistcommunist coalition of the left and that president giscards position might be rendered untenable as a result. but the french parliamentary elections resulted in a surprise victory for substantial proportions in terms of seats in the parliament. president giscard destaings position was substantially strengthened by the outcome of the election. ard particularly so by the fact that the biggest single gainers in terms of parliamentary representation were the "giscardist" porties or the victorious government coalition. the neogaullist party under the leadership of the mayor of paris. jacques chirac. remains however the largest bloc within the government coalition. following the election. the french government. through prime minister barre. has acted to "freeup" the french -ecoy and to stimulate private investment which had remained stagnant during the months preceding the elections when the dark cloud of prospective broadscale nationalization advocated by the socialistcommunist coalition loomed on the political horizon.
