. the water pollution bill reported to the house by its public works committee is lamentably weak. j..h. in contrast to our senatepassed bill. which provides for a more realistic start toward meeting the water pollution challenge. the house bill falls far short of the need. in fact. if the house bill should become law. it would be an instrument for assuring delay and inaction. one of the most serious defects in the house bill is the wholly inadequate authorization-$2.3 billionfor assistance to the states and localities for construction of waste treatment plants. the figure of $6 billion provided by the senate bill is regarded by experts as the minimum amount needed to stimulate egh spending by state and local governments to wipe out in the next 6 years the existing $20 billion backlog in construction of municipal waste treatment facilities. other defects in the house bill include: the continuation of arbitrary dollar ceilings on construction of individual and joint projects regardless of their size or location. this would work a hardship on metropolitan areas where the concentration of population makes the cost of water pollution control high. the senate bill removed all ceilings. making it possible to tailor federal grants to actual needs. a provision making all state and locally initiated river basin cleanup plans subject to congressional approval. this could lead to serious logrolling. even to the crippling of this program. the senate bill wisely left approval of river basin plans to the secretary of the interior. the requirement that polluters file reports on their activities during the second--or hearingstage of federal enforcement actions. the senate bill provided for the submission of this report in the firstor conferencestage. experience has shown this information is much more useful at the conference stage because in 39 federal enforcement actions to date. the hearing level has been reached only four times. i could go on and on. but i think these comparisons suffice to show the weaknesses of the house bill. unfortunately. the administration has shown little or leadership in this field. the bill the administration proposed earlier this year was pathetically weak and the action of the house public works committee is a direct reflection of that weakness. the time remaining in this session of congress is limited. but whatever time and effort may be required. we must insist on legislation commensurate with the need to make a real start on the immense problem of water pollution control. each week and each month of delay or inadequate response makes it more difficult. and more expensive. to deal with the pollution of our rivers. lakes and streams.
four from the executive branch of the federal government and five private individuals with recognized competence in real estate or conservation matters. several years ago. when i first introduced the original version of my park land protection act. i devoted a large portion of my remarks to pointing up the need to protect land to meet the nations recreational needs. since then. i believe this need has become selfevident and accepted by the vast majority. many examples of the need for the bill could be cited but one should suffice at this time. east brunswick. n.j.. recently dropped plans to develop a new park despite the fact that there was $119.550 in federal and state funds available for acquisition .of the 65acre tract. . one of the reasons cited for failure to take the opportunity to develop the park was that the army corps of engineers has proposed a dam project nearby and the park land may be flooded by the corps of engineers project. even though that project is at least 10 years away. if there had been assurance that the park land would have to be replaced if its use was destroyed by the dam project. the decision might have been different. what still is needed is a legal mechanism to provide this protection. this is the purpose of my bill. it will say simply that our national store of recreational land and open space must be preserved and that any land that is used for any public works project must be replaced by land "comparable in value. quantity and quality." in my view. this is a step that is overdue. it is a step that would complement any action congress may take this year on land use planning. obviously. the best land use plans can be upset by unforeseen demands for land for public works projects. but there must be some assurance that these demands are  met at the expense of meeting the need for recreational and open space areas. our store of these lands must  be depleted to meet the need for public works projects. therefore. i believe my bill should be considered in connection with land use planning legislation and i urge that it be referred to the senatp interior committee for that purpose. by mr. javits (for himself and mr. buckley):
. there is emous sentiment for action by congress on proposals dealing with the troubles of the american railroads. as put before us by the subcommittee which did such a fine job under the chairmanship of the junior senator from florida . i hope very much we will be able to get early action in this field. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record representative petitions and memorials from various municipal bodies in the state of new york. urging such action be had.
. i am introducing. on behalf of myself. senator goodell. and senator brooke. a bill designed to help smaller cities and towns provide additional water storage facilities to first. minimize water pollution problems in smaller rivers and streams during periods of drought. and. second. construct reserve water storage facilities in anticipation of future industrial and community needs. specifically. the bill would authorize the secretary of agriculture to provide: first. federal grants to localities for the construction of multipurpose water management projects to insure high water quality standards on smaller rivers and streams. second. federal grants of up to 50 percent to localities for the maintenance of reserve water supplies to allow future industrial or community growth. federal loans repayable within 50 years would be advanced to cover the remainder of the costs of these municipal and industrial water storage facilities. congress has made great strides in recent years in facing up to the grave problem of water pollution. but. of necessity. has concentrated on the larger bodies of water. the bill we are introducing today is designed to fill a gap in recent legislation by allowing federal assistance to water quality control projects on the smaller rivers and tributaries which are the lifelines of so many of our smaller cities and towns. in addition. these streams. in periods of drought. carry concentrated pollutants into the larger rivers. working against all our larger water pollution control projects. under existing law. federal contributions to localities for dam and reservoir construction can only be made for flood prevention--socalled singlepurpose facilitiesrecreation. and/or wildlife preservation. under the first section of the proposal introduced today. a municipality could get a 50 percent federal contribution to enable it to store water for release during critical periods of low stream flow. as is  provided by the u.s. department of agriculture for wa-: tershed works which are applicable to the agricultural phases of soil and water conservation. fish and wildlife development. and recreational development. the facility for storing water would probably be part of a reservoir or dam built for these other purposes. the bill is  designed to provide a substitute for adequate antipollution treatment at the source. but to enable continually flowing streams to serve an essential function of diluting and carrying away waste  completely purified by treatment. streams and small rivers unfortunately are still being used for disposal of sewage and other pollutants and probably will continue to be so used. consequently. there is a need and desire in many small watershed programs to incorporate water quality management. in new york state. for example. 19 projects are planned for 1969 and 1970. 17 of which will serve only the single purpose of flood prevention. many of these could be designed to allow for aher purposerelease of water for quality control. it is estimated that a singlepurpose reservoir costing approximately $100.000 would only require an additional $25.000 to provide water quality control. if this additional capacity were included at the time the reservoir was constructed. if water quality control capacity were added to a singlepurpose structure later on. the additional cost would be from two to four times more than if it had been added initially. according to department of agriculture estimates. new york state is  alone in its upstream water pollution problems. the need in other states has been pointed out in federal reviews of small watershed project work plans. although the need has been recognized. federal assistance is  available. it is estimated that the cost to the federal government for its share in water quality management projects will be $3 million for the first two years and $3.5 million for each year thereafter. the second section of the bill recognizes that water is often a significant factor in community growth. the availability and quality of water is a prime consideration of many industries in locating or expanding plants. if we are to enable our small cities. towns. and rural areas to hold the population they  have and to grow. job opportunities need to be opened. this section provides for federal assistance of up to 50 percent to allow for more complete development of dam sites at the initial stages of construction so that water reserves will be available for future municipal and industrial use. at present. these reserves can be provided only if the city or industry is willing to bear 100 percent of the cost. this section is designed to make more complete use of multiplepurpose features of water control and to provide financial help to localities that might want to include municipal or industrial water supply in small watershed projects. in order to meet anticipated municipal or industrial water supply storage needs. it is estimated annual costs will actually be approximately. $12. million -with the federal contribution amounting to $6 million in grants and $6 million in loans repayable within 50 years. these estimates are based on projections contained in a study of 126 planned reservoirs prepared for the water resources council in 1966. i send the bill to the desk for appropriate reference and ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill may also be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
