. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague from connecticut and the distinguished senator from maine in cosponsoring the substitute which is being offered to s. 1308. there are many reasons why i am opposed to the energy committee bill. however. at this time i will confine my remarks to two sections of s. 1308 which are of dubious constitutional validity. specifically. i am referring to the provisions that would authorize the energy mobilization board to act in lieu of a state or local agency. and that which would vest in the federal temporary emergency court of appeals exclusive jurisdiction to review an action by a state or local agency or a decision rendered by a state or local trial court. unfortunately. although these sections have been referred to in passing during the course of debate on this bill. proper attention has  been given to these issues. subsection 21(a) of s. 1308 would authorize the energy mobilization board to make a decision or take an action in lieu of any agencywhether it be federal. state or localif the agency fails to meet a project decision schedule deadline established by the board. congress is thus seeking to regulate the activity of states acting in their sovereign capacities. in the memorandum prepared by the justice department on the constitutionality of the administrations proposal for an energy mobilization boardwhich was cited yesterday by the distinguished senator from louisiana. the floor manager of the bill  before usit was admitted by the justice department that the provision for displacement of state and local agency decisionmaking: obviously . . . intrudes on authority presently exercised by state and local officials. indeed. it could be argued that supplanting decisionmaking strikes at the heart of state and local sovereignty. hing is a more integral governmental function than government itself. despite this stark admission. the justice department attempts to justify this provision on the broad power to act given congress under the commerce clause. article i. section 8. clause 3 of the constitution. additional support is sought in a series of cases that considered constitutional challenges of the clean air act. however. in discussing the displacement of state and local decisionmaking. the justice department does  even discuss the seminal u.s. supreme court decision establishing limitations on the congressional power to act under the commerce clause to interfere with the role of the states in the federal system. in its 1976 decision in national league of cities v. usery. 426 u.s. 833 (1976). the supreme court invalidated extension of the fair labor standards acts minimum wage and maximum hour standards to state and local governments. the court stated that: we have repeatedly recognized that there are attributes of sovereignty attaching to every state government which may  be impaired by congress.  because congress may lack an affirmative grant of legislative authority to reach the matter. but because the constitution prohibits it from exercising the authority in that manner. id. at 845. in its decision. the court established a test by which the constitutionality of every attempted commerce clause regulation of state and local governmental activity must be judged. the test has two tiers to determine intrusions on state sovereignty. first. it must be determined whether the governmental activity being regulated is "essential to the states separate and independent existence." to identify those governmental functions deserving an affirmative constitutional protection. the supreme court used several phrases: "integral". "traditional". "essential". and "functions * * * which (state) governments are created to provide." is there any doubt that the state and local activities which the energy mobilization board would be empowered to displace under subsection 21(a) of this bill are those functions which are traditionally relegated to the states. under the energy committee bill. the energy mobilization board is empowered to act in lieu of the states or local agency in such traditional state governmental functions as zoning decisions. landuse controls and safety regulations as they are applied to energy facilities. if the federal government is empowered to preempt local zoning decisions. our state and local governments would be reduced to mere appendages of the federal government. clearly. this result would transgress the constitutional scheme. having ascertained that the state and local agency activities are "essential to the states separate and independent existence." the test established in national league of cities requires an examination of the degree of interference imposed by the federal regulation. if the regulation either imposes significant financial burdens on the governmental body subject to the regulation or displaces the states freedom to carry out essential activities. then the federal government has unconstitutionally interferred with state sovereignty. the displacement powers granted the energy mobilization board under s. 1308 empowers it to impose conditions on the state without either relieving the state completely of regulatory responsibility or providing it with feasible alternatives to operating under the federal dictates. while a state is aware of the deadlines and waivers present in its decision schedule before it embarks on its regulatory process. it is . as a practical matter. given the option of  initiating the process so as to avoid the deadlines. it must start the process. hoping to comply with the schedule. if . the process is prematurely ended and federal decisionmakers take over. because a state can be expected to abandon such traditional and essential functions as zoning. landuse control. and health and safety regulation. it must enlist its regulatory resources each time with the possibility of premature termination of the process. together with its attendant waste of state money and personnel time. the two prongs of the national league of cities test are satisfied by the provision in s. 1308 empowering the energy mobilization board to act in lieu of state and local agencies. thus. the provision is an unconstitutional intrusion by the federal government into an area sovereign to the states. i might add that the justice departments reliance on the courts of appeals decisions in the socalled clean air cases. is misplaced. simply put. the courts of appeals of the fourth. ninth. and district of columbia circuits in these cases rejected an interpretation of the clean air act which would force states to enforce implementation plans by enacting statutes or regulations. or face the possibility of compliance decrees or civil or criminal penalties. as the court stated in epa v. brown. 521 f.2d 827. 839 (9th cir. 1975). to adopt such an interpretation of epas enforcement powers "would authorize congress to direct the states to regulate any ecoic activity that affects interstate commerce in any manner congress sees fit. a commerce power so expanded would reduce the states to puppets of a ventriloquist congress." it may similarly be argued that to enable the energy mobilization board to step in for state or local agencies would make the states muppets. therefore. the board should  be given the authority to displace state and local agency decisionmaking. i also have reservations about the constitutionality of vesting the temporary emergency court of appeals with jurisdiction to review "any action by any state or local agency or officer if such action is subject to a deadline" and to review any action by "any state or local trial court with respect to a case involving an action pursuant to the act." article iii. section 2 of the constitution of the united states provides that federal courts may be given jurisdiction "over all cases. in law and equity. arising under this constitution. the laws of the united states. and treaties made. or which shall be made. under their authority." in determining whether a case "arises under" the constitution or laws of the united states. one must start with chief justice marshalls opinion in osborn v. bank of the united states. 22 u.s. 738 (1824). marshall reasoned that the "arising under" provision would be satisfied because the validity of a federallychartered banks capacity to sue or contract would always be an "original ingredient" of every suit. however. cases coming to the temporary emergency court of appeals from state agencies pursuant to s. 1308 would lack even an "ingredient" of a federal question. the plaintiffs in such suits would be state citizens or corporations. the defendants state officers and agencies. and the governing law would be found in state statutes. the absence of any federally created cause of action or parties operating under federal control or auspices would take appeals from state agency action outside even the most expansive reading of article iii. the department of justice. in defense of the administrations proposal. has offered two theories to embrace these cases within federal jurisdiction. these defenses have likewise been offered for s. 1308. one argument is that federal law could incorporate state law and in effect adopt it as federal law. the ion of "protective jurisdiction" has also been proffered as a justification. neither of these theories withstand close scrutiny. s. 1308 does  purport to incorporate state law as federal law.  has "congress expressly incorporated state law as the federal law of decision by the emb and state and local agencies * * ." as the justice department memo has suggested is necessary. additionally. four of the five cases cited by the justice department in support of the incorporation theory are in fact cases involving state law being applied in national parks. which are federal enclaves. thus. these casesunlike s. 1308involve areas of exclusive federal sovereignty and law enforcement gaps would exist if state law was  held to be incorporated. finally. in the quadrini case cited by justice. the court expressly limited its discussion of federal court application of state law to the federal enclave situation. the court expressed doubts about its applicability in the commerce clause contextwhich is the context in which the incorporation theory under s. 1308 would have to be considered.  can federal jurisdiction be predicated on the "protective jurisdiction" theory. the supreme court has  affirmed either variant of this theory. in fact. as justice frankfurter said in his dissent in textile workers union of america against lincoln mills: protective jurisdiction. once the label is discarded. can be justified under any review of the allowable scope to be given to article iii. many have adopted the frankfurter view. as professor wright observes in his treatise on federal practice and procedure: it is difficult to believe that the supreme court. if clearly confronted with the question. would accept . . . proposals for "protective jurisdiction" when to do so would have such drastic consequences on the accepted understanding of article iii as a limitation on the federal courts. there clearly exists substantial questions concerning the constitutionality of vesting the temporary emergency court of appeals with exclusive jurisdiction to review actions of state and local agencies and decisions rendered by state and local trial courts. accordingly. review of these decisions should be left to the review procedure adopted by the appropriate state.
the article states: as outlined in court documents. wheelingpittsburgh has  shown any concrete links between senator weicker and the crane company or colorado fuel and iron. but paul a. manion. a lawyer for wheelingpittsburgh. said his argument was basically that lightning does  strike in the same place three times. "i dont k whats in it for weicker." . i ask unanimous consent that an editorial from the washington post of december 3. 1979. and an article published in the wall street journal on ember 29. 1979. be printed in the record.
the highest court of the state. what we are talking about is appeal to state courts on purely state law which is the governing law insofar as these regulatory issues to agencies are concerned and the appeal can go only to the record of the original proceedings. there was never any intention or any attempt. and there is hing here which allows new issues or federal laws or guidelines to be the subject of appeal. and i ask my friend fom new mexico to show me anything here that gives the secretary of department of energy the right to go to any federal court.
yes. i should add that that was the situation. i dare say that there were many yesterday who felt as i did that the rule should be adopted so that we could have full consideration of the bill. and yet were then opposed to the bill. i hope that there are many others who voted in favor of considering the legislation who will have had an opportunity to study the evidence and opinions expressed and who will share my conviction that this bill should be recommitted to the committee so that it may continue its excellent investigation and study of our fuel resources with the objective of bringing before the house its recommendations in terms of the overall problem  facing us. before discussing some of the main points of that study. i think it is entirely proper in terms of the difficulties which confronted the house committee and the differences of opinion which exist to point out that it is of record that s. 1498 to amend the natural gas act to exempt individual producers and gatherers of natural gas was reported on june 22 with an amendment by a vote of 6 to 3. in most respects that bill is similar to the bill before us. yet we are confronted with a report dated july 28 upon a rule granted wednesday aftern. the committee on interstate and foreign commerce started over a year ago a comprehensive study of the nations fuel supply and demand. the best statement available as to the objectives of the committees investigation is contained in remarks made by the gentleman from new jersey on december 12. 1947. when he was presiding as chairman of the committee: i would jike to make a short statement preliminary to hearing the first witness with respect to the purpose and intent and scope of the survey or study which the committee has begun. the subject of fuel supply and demand which we shall begin to study this morning is of outstanding importance for the nations ecoy both in times of peace and in times of war. as a matter of fact. i can think of any problem which looms larger as far as our future prosperity and security are concerned. when i say we are going to begin this study today. i do  mean to imply that this committee is a newcomer in the field of fuels. i refer you to the thorough study made of petroleum in all of the aspects by this committee in more recent years beginning with the seventythird congress under the subcommittee chairmanship of william p. cole. jr.. from maryland. and ending with a final report submitted by chairman lea in december 1946. again. in july 1947. this committee held hearings on petroleum. and the then threatening shortages. the committee is thus well prepared by its past studies for the current broad investigation into the supply and demand picture as it presents itself with respect to our principal sources of energypetroleum: coal. electric power. and natural gas. the committee proposed to divide its study into two parts. namely. the immediate fuel situation and the longrange situation with respect to each of the aforementioned sources of energy. it will attempt to get as accurate a picture as possible of the nations overall requirements for fuel both in times of war and in times of peace. and the supplies of each fuel which are available to meet these demands. the committee will study each field in all of its aspectsreserves. production. processing. transportation. and distribution. great care will be taken to distinguish in the case of each fuel between the immediate shortrange problems and the longrange problems of supply and demand. particular attention will be given by the committee to the problem of interchangeability of fuels and the production of fuels from alternative sources of supply. in anncing the hearings a few days ago. i stated that the situation with respect to petroleum was truly alarming because of the tremendous increase in the demand for all petroleum products. present and impending petroleum shortages will undoubtedly constitute a source of harassment for our comfort. worse yet. they may constitute a potential source of danger to our security. however. even this dark cloud has its silver lining. the shortages which we are experiencing in many fields. including petroleum. constitute the living proof of the vitality and resilience of our capitalistic ecoy. in a sense it is truly a tribute to our ecoic system that in the face of widespread forecasts of mass unemployment and closeddown plants during the immediate postwar period. we  find it necessary to concern ourselves with the problem of how to secure the energy resources required to operate our expanding ecoy. from that time until the end of the eightieth congress the committee continued its investigation. there were 2.692 pages of evidence submitted during the public hearings. these hearings extended over a period of 39 daysfrom december 12. 1947. to july 28. 1948and the subcommittee on petroleum and federal power has continued its study of certain phases of this problem during this year. including an extension study of petroleum in mexico. i think it is of importance to e that the subcommittee held executive sessions on march 22 to hear the testimony of hon. paul g. hoffman. administrator. ecoic cooperation administration. on march 25 to hear walter levy. petroleum chief. ecoic cooperation administration. on april 14 to hear col. g. h. vogl. director. petroleum board. national security resources board. on may 19. 1949. to hear robert e. freedman. acting director. oil and gas division. department of the interior. and on july 12 to again hear testimony from colonel vogl. during the course of this fuel investigation. the committee filed six important reports. may i describe them briefly: first. house report  1270. january 26. 1948: a preliminary report on the fuel investigation discussing current shortages. the overall petroleum situation. the need for a study. suggestions as to its scope. and recommendations for the creation of a joint committee on fuel policy. second. house report  1321. february 4. 1948: a progress report discussing the action taken by the petroleum industry and various governmental agencies as a result of committee recommendations. third. house report  1438. february 27. 1948: petroleum and the european recovery program. this report directs attention to the worldwide petroleum demand and supply situation. the reliance placed upon the middle east as a source of crude supply. and the worldwide expansion of production. processing. and transportation facilities simultaneously required to furnish petroleum products needed. fourth. house report  2342. june 14. 1948: petroleum prices and profits. this report. based on petroleum company replies to a committee questionnaire. discusses the industry position with respect to current prices and profits. fifth. house report  2460. august 13. 1948: current petroleum outlook. this report. the first submitted under the authority of house resolution 595. passed on june 19. 1948. was intended to inform congress of the near term outlook as it had been presented to the committee. and to bring up to date the committees reporting on its activities in connection with the fuel investigation. sixth. house report  2470. december 31. 1948: mexican petroleum. this is a detailed report of the result of an extensive investigation by the committee in mexico. as well as with experts here from several departments of government and legislative reference service concerning the petroleum resources which might be expected from mexico. it includes at pages 15. 16. and 17. 10 conclusions and recommendations of the committee. including recommendations with reference to consideration of financial assistance to mexico. i have attempted to select certain extremely significant excerpts from these reports. i think they demonstrate better than anything else the great importance of the investigation which has been undertaken and which i contend takes full priority over any piecemeal attack on a single problem such as we have before us .
. reserving the right to object. i wast to make a brief statement in connection with this bill. it is a difficult matter for me to disagree with so many. in fact nearly all. of the members of my own committee. the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house. i thoroughly respect their views. i k that they are completely sincere when they recommend this legislation. inasmuch as the federal power commission has stated that it would revoke its rule giving it jurisdiction over the detroit edison co. which will be transmitting electric energy in foreign commerce after the proposed interchanges with ontario are completed. it makes difference whether the bill. which does the same thing. passes or . yet there are certain aspects of the situation which seem to me to require some discussion. the detroit edison co. testified that it was  seeking to avoid any regulation over this foreign commerce in electric energy. merely the duplication of regulation which would occur were the federal power commission to exercise jurisdiction in addition to the complete jurisdiction already possessed by the michigan public service commission. it seems to me that there is grave doubt whether the michigan authorities have such power over foreign commerce. regardless of the apparent intent as expressed in the bill that the state may exercise such jurisdiction. the authorities on which counsel for the company. in a separate brief filed with the committee by sullivan & cromwell. appear to rely as to the constitutionality of this delegation by the congress. do  impress me. neither do those of the american law division of the library of congress legislative reference service. practically all of them are decisions pertaining to the delegation to the states of the right to exercise certain jurisdiction in the field of interstate commerce. the principal case seemingly relied upon as to foreign commerce is that of boblo excursion company v. michigan (333 u. s. 28 (1948)). which involved a violation by the company of the michigan civil rights act by refusing passage to a negro between detroit and an amusement park on an island in canadian waters. foreign commerce. of course. even to a greater extent than domestic commerce must be within the realm of governmental authority delegated by the several states to the federal government under the constitution. whether there is a proper and successful redelegation under this bill to the states seem to me very doubtful. and  very desirable. if there is . of course. the bill simply succeeds in recreating the "attleboro gap." absence of any governmental regulation of the transaction. which was the very basis for the enactment originally of the federal power act. on the other hand. it would appear that the detroit edison co.. by its assertions in the testimony on this bill. is effectively estopped from urging any such lack of state jurisdiction insofar as it is concerned. secondly. i can fully subscribe to the reasoning of the circuit court of appeals in its holding in the border pipe line case that the congress did  intend that the domestic part of the foreign transportation of natural gas should be within the jurisdiction of the commission. it is regrettable that the court of last resort has  passed on this question. the language of the federal power act reads: section 201 (c). "for the purposes of this part. electric energy shall be held to be transmitted in interstate commerce if transmitted from a state and consumed at any point outside thereof. but only insofar as such transmission takes place within the united states." it certainly seems to me that it was intended that this transmission to a foreign country would bring one within the. jurisdiction of the commission. since clearly the transmission in interstate commerce does so. otherwise. what do the words mean. "any point outside thereof". they are  limited in any way by phraseology that ontario is  "outside." it is true that the interstate commerce act uses the language "to or from any foreign country." but i can see that this is any more explicit than "any point outside." on the other hand. in view of the doubt cast upon the correct interpretation of the language. by reason of the differing federal power commission interpretations. the court decision. and sundry arguments advanced at the hearing. it would seem proper to clear it up. whether or  electric. or for that matter. natural gas. companies engaged in foreign commerce should be brought within the federal power commission. is a subject on which i in ise  would attempt to pass. i do agree. however. with what seems to be the thought of the committee. that any determination of this question is certainly a policy decision to be made by the congress. and  by any administrative ruling of *a regulatory body through strained construction placed upon statutory language. finally. while the discussion of what the effect of the bill will be as far as detroit edison is concerned seems clear. i can foresee what may be the result of this bill in terms of any interchanges between other states and foreign countries. such as the prospective connections between the state of new york and ontario. either by private companies or by state generating authorities. in conclusion. i want to call attention to the fact that this house has by public law 109 created what is kn as a commission on intergovernmental relations. while it is possible that the duties specified in that law would  run fully to this kind of situation. i am sure that there is a federal and state relationship here which ought to be investigated and on which we should have some considered recommendations from that or some  other source. i do think it is very doubtful wisdom to be passing a bill which does substantially change existing law. and i say that even though it is true that the federal power commission or at least a majority of the federal power commission appears to be ready to do all of this by regulation and. consequently. all this discussion may  be in point.
i will consider myself. with deep feeling. a trustee of the great principles for which this very distinguished and famous kentuckian has stood. there are many explanations about coal mine safety. they can get a jury trial. and so forth. i will insert those in the record immediately after what we have discussed. i assure the senator that i hold these principles very dear. that i fought for them in my committee. that i will continue to fight for them. and that i will make every effort to use legislative oversight in that process. may i also say to the senator that he ks i am unbelievably busy. i am uficial ombudsman for kentucky. at the request of the senator from kentuckythe present senatorat any time.
ial determination respecting priorities which would be involved. especially after the congress had tried to pass on these authorities if congress promulgates the risk of the tremendous unsettlement. to say the least. which would arise if we tried to invalidate by this rather neat amendment under the cover of an energy crisis. the action of the court and local educational districts and communities which have been fought over for literally at least 19 years. since the brown case. i think it would be most improvident to do so. hence. i feel it my duty to raise both issues by the motion to tablewhether we want to have this in this bill at all and by the motion to amend whether we intend to throw out the emous labors of the courts and communities on this very vexing question.
i thank my colleague. i should like to work this out with the prospective department. i am  coupling them with the amendment. this is our idea. in order to deal with that very subject. the amendment read as follows: the boardthat is the energy boardshall. when requested. afford an opportunity for a hearing. including. at a minimum the submission of briefs. oral or documentary evidence. and oral arguments. and to the extent that the board in its discretion determines it is required for a full and true disclosure of the facts the right to conduct cross examination. so the board has discretion to deal with delaying tactics. then there is an additional section: (s) the secretary may set reasonable time limits for the board to complete action on a proceeding referred to it pursuant to this subsection. the virtue of including these precautions against stretching out and yet having an effective amendment is that. when it gets to a court. the court can also review the reasonableness with which the board acted and the secretary acted. so there is protection for the individual or the firm. we have been very careful. and this was worked outas i say. we took this suggestion. i do  want to couple them with approving or disapproving. we did take this to give the board control over any stretchout.
