i heard the senator with great interest. he misses entirely thefundamental point which is involved. here. and that is the presence of american private investments in given coun-. tries which are possible of resource development and which do . have the traditional pattern of oil investments. with all the rocks that are thrown at bauxite in jamaica. the fact is that that is the way it was developed. and it is much more effective for us to have it developed in the caribbean than in some country where it would  mean as. much in terms of the western hemisphere ecoy and in. terms of western hemisphere security. further. i wish we had had guarantees on the oil companies. if we had been looking over their shoulders. as we must if we do have a guarantee. we would be a. lot surer that policies had been pursued that would have been far more conducive to the public interest and public policy than they have been. and that is one of the big arguments for opic. . if i may proceed further. i wish to refer to the paley report. which is a most constructive report on raw materials. incidentally. that paley report has been terribly neglected. it shows that there are over 70 individual items of minerals and other products which are absolutely indispensable to the operation of the american. industrial machine. i feel that one of the important arguments about maintaining opic is the added opportunity. ody claims for a minute that there is going to be u.s. investment abroad if there is opic. as a matter of fact. it has participation in only something like onequarter of all the investment abroad. and that percentage may go down. it may be less. but that does  negate the desirability of having a piece of machinery which is available for this purpose. which is the desirability i stress. . the miity considers that to be most unwise. and my third amendment would be a deletion of that deletion. that is. a deletion of the effort to remove yugoslavia and romania from the program. as a matter of fact. i say with all respectand i hope the senator from idaho will supply this in the course of his presentation to the senatethat i do  think any kind of a case has been made why yugoslavia and romania are picked out for extinction as far as opic business is concerned. especially at a time when i think it critically important for us. at least as much as it is to do business with the soviet union. to try to bring about some more mal relationship with countries which show any degree of independence. of the socalled satellite countries that have heretofore been referred to. so we shall propose that amendment. the other amendment which we shall february 2.5. 1974 propose is as to the extent of the reinsurance which opic may write. we feel that the committee has written in a very limiting and constricting renegotiation provision. that is. the majority has. in an effort. as senator church has explained. to try to broaden the number of countries in which insurance will be written. it is our contention that it will  broaden the number of countries. it will simply narrow the number of countries in which insurance is already being written. because the business decision as such is  to be susceptible to force feeding by us. you have to -take advantage of the business decisions made on a business basis. and then caused to be translated into an investment because of the guarantees you give. we are  going to be able to force business decisions by the artificial denial of guarantees. where a guarantee would induce an investment based on a business decision which is already made. so we shall endeavor to make the responsibility for reinsurance generic. and i might say in addition that it is interesting that our own amendment could go the other way. but we find an allowable in overall insurance by opic in the committees bill of $12 billion. we do  think that is necessary. so our amendment respecting reinsurance cuts that down. and retains the existing ceiling of $7.5 billion for the whole program.
