. it seems to me that every once in a while we all go back to our professions. in this case. i go back to being a lawyer. i would like to point out to the senate what it would do if we were to agree to the amendment. others have said. of course. that there is moral justification for what happened. we then point to a negro or puerto rican child who has been eduated in a school which is very heavily of that group. the question we are wrestling with today is what to do about it. the whole concept of the law we have passed. the entire discussion and decisions of the supreme court have been in an effort to deal with de jure segregation. that is all that has been done  for over 16 years. we all understood that. we thought that was as far as we ought to go with a problem as tough as this one is. the senator from connecticut. with his magic. would give us a load to carry that would break our backs. talk about kidding each other. watch this one work. we are being asked to take over the federal control of education. i have reread the laws because i do  trust my memory. there is hing in the civil rights act of 1964 or in section 182 of the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1966 which says anything about. de jure or de facto segregation. i would like to read section 601 of the civil rights act of 1964. it reads: person in the united states shall. on the ground of race. color. or national origin. be excluded from participation in. be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. it then goes on to say what shall be done about that. similarly. the elementary and secondary education act. concerned with the civil rights act of 1964. says that the commissioner of education shall  defer action or order action served or any application for federal funds--until 60 days after ice is given. unless a hearing has been held. again. mention of de jure or de facto segregation. there is  a word about de jure or de facto segregation. the stennis amendment says that it is the policy of the united states that guidelines and criteria established pursuant to title vi of the civil rights act of 1964 and section 182 of the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1966 shall be applied uniformly in all regions of the united states in dealing with conditions of segregation by race. and the senator from connecticut would add. "whether de jure or de facto." what are we asking hew to do. hew  has the right to set guidelines and to set rules which will apply to de facto segregation. they are going to take all of these definitions about which the senator from michigan asked the senator from connecticut. the senator from connecticut was secretary of health. education. and welfare. they are going to make the definitions. they are going to say 20 percent is good in cleveland. 32 percent is bad in new york. or whatever the case may be. as i understand it. and i have been the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare for some years. one of the sacred cows. or the most sacred cow. even more sacred than this one. is. "do  interfere with education." let the federal government contribute money but let there be interference with educational policy or matters involved in the dynamics of education. if it stands up i can think of anything to put the courts and hew in this business more. the first question will be whether the united states has any jurisdiction. then. whether it can reach de facto segregation. i have an idea that when some of my friends see the extension of federal power over matters which have heretofore been beyond federal power. they are going to be appalled by the witchs caldron into which we look.
. i am a member of the select committee of which senator mondale is chairman. and i fought the battle with the senator from connecticut on the stennis amendment. as he very well recalls. i did  hear all of the senators speech. i k that he has had very interesting and important discussions with my colleagues. i do  think any such discussion. however. should be allowed to stand without adding these two further considerations. which i think are vital: one. we have found. unhappily. that the process of desegregation itself. pursuant to the supreme court mandate and congressional :aw. is  free of segregation. in the committee headed by senator mondale. we have found many abuses of the desegregation process. so the idea that all is well in the south and that it is  in key with the th does  necessarily follow. two. i think that the question of timing. which is raised by the senators bills. must be considered in the context of the pending emergency school aid act. which has already been reported by a committee of the house. and over which the education subcommittee of the senate committee on labor and public welfare is presently deliberating. the original proposal of the administration which we are  considering is concerned with the effects of racial isolation on the pedagogical aspect of education as well as desegregation. it may be insufficient to paint a 10year picture and ige the needs of children in todays educational system the concept on which we are working . proposed by the administration. of a large money bill which would give great flexibility and opportunity for many different approaches deals with immediate needs with a timetable which would be conditioned. one. by the availability of resources. but also by what could be accomplished here. there. and everywhere. without necessarily slowing "x" down because you have a timetable for "y." i only throw that out in connection with the senators speech. because of my respect for the senator. as a real factor in this field and so that the work of the committee. of which. as i have said. i am a member and senator mondale heads. may be forwarded by what the senator is doing. i have  heard my chairman. but i hope very much that the bills which the senator is introducingthe concept that the senator is offeringmay be before us in a very pertinent and important way in connection with our work. which has to be brought to a conclusion before very long.
