i thank the gentleman for that reassurance. finally. . i would make one other point clear. the administration bill. the esch substitute. does .i repeat--does  have a triggering device on local unemployment which would make additional public service employment funds available in critical local situations. that is. unlike the committee bill. the esch substitute does  provide additional public service employment funds in local areas which are faced with critical unemployment situations. the only additional funds in the esch substitute for public service employment could be released on the basis of a national triggerthere is separate local trigger as there is in the committee bill. i regard this as a major omission. the committee bill does have a special section so that in localities around the united states where unemployment is high. even though the national trigger was  activated. there would be funds for critical local unemployment. and this is just  in the administrations substitute bill.
if i understand it. i am just reading what he is required to do. it says: after the walkaround. the compliance officer discusses with the employer what he has seen and reviews probable violations. also discussed is the time the employer believes he will need to abate hazards. the compliance officer then returns to his office. writes his report. and discusses it with his area director. the area director or his superiors determine what citations will be issued and what penalties. if any. will be proposed. these are sent to the employer by certified mail with a copy to the complainant. if there is one. . i am just reading what the labor department has said.
i greatly appreciate the kind comment of the gentleman and i want him to k that his advice has been the determining factor in my present approach to this problem. i also have a letter. which i will  take the trouble to read. from  for their cooperation. it will be understood and appreciated by all in those states who are struggling to conserve oil and to solve this problem. certainly. if we fail and if there is further hardship. i shall be happy to testify that shred of responsibility can be fairly placed on the shoulders of the gentleman from new jersey . the gentleman from new york . or the gentleman from massachusetts or any member of their subcommittees. in all fairness. i should and would make the same statement about the gentleman from wisconsin and the members of his subcommittee. he has been cooperative in the extreme and i k expected me to present any revised statement monday. he did  k that i was ill and could  be expected to do anythifig except guide the committee bill through which he did with characteristic ability. i am sure that he will ask the department of labor and the federal security agency to take judicial ice of this development today and to be guided accordingly in their use of the funds appropriated. the full letter from the fourth assistant postmaster general is as follows:
. when we compare these rates in private industry with the wages paid to postal and federal employees. we secure an immediate and forceful answer to the problemwhat is wrong with government service. the starting wage in the postal service is $1.611/2 per hour and an employee may advance after 8 years of service to $2.011/2 per hour. or approximately 25 cents per hour less than the beginning wage of comparable private industry. is it any wonder that government service is losing its attractiveness and that more and more people are turning to other pursuits. the present starting wage of postal employees is often less than the starting wage of unskilled labor and certainly less than the kind of a wage necessary to attractand more important. to holdthe kind of people needed for efficient service in the federal establishment. how can the government hope to secure competent people with an inadequate and outdated wage policy. people with the necessary qualifications and intelligence required for postoffice work who have worked there for years can make more money in private industry. but they have built up a background of seniority and retirement rights and should  be made to change over. according to preliminary returns from a recent survey. conducted in new york city by the national federation of post office clerks. some 42 percent of the employees are required to do parttime work. in addition to their postal jobs. in order to supplement inadequate postal salaries. more distressing than that. over 32 percent of the employees have their wives gainfully employed. if we were to add to this impressive total the employees who are disabled veterans and are receiving compensation from the veterans administration. it becomes apparent that well over 90 percent of the postal employees in new york city are supplementing their wages in one way or aher. certainly such conditions do  permit employees to perform the same high grade of efficient service that would be possible if they were paid a proper wage which made parttime jobs unnecessary. there is ecoy in wage scales which are so inadequate that they prevent employees from giving full time and attention to their government duties. i trust the chairman and the members of the committee on post office and civil service will move promptly to correct this condition. numerous .bills to a4just postal and federal employees wages have been introduced and i urge that hearings on these bills be scheduled promptly.
. on march 29 the deputy leader of the miity. the distinguished senior senator from california made a highly interesting speech on the floor of the senate in which he dealt with the principles and practices basic to sound procurement policy as applied to the department of defense. i propose to answer those remarks. i have supplied copies of my prospective remarks to the senators from california. as well as to the junior senator from new york and other interested senators. i believe it is necessary to clarify some of the misconceptions. possibly even some erroneous conclusions. which i feel certain crept unwittingly into the senators thoroughgoing. farreaching exposition. at the same time. i should like to point to the wide areas between us. i should like to emphasize. if i may have the attention. for this purpose. of the senators from california. that i do  believe any of us are engaging in shadowboxing. i hope that this debate. which we all understand. is very heavily dictated by conditions in our own states. may result to our mutual benefit and to the benefit of the country. and perhaps in a new look at the whole procurement policy of the department of defense. which. unfortunately or fortunately. bulks so very large in parts of the ecoies of our state. as it does in parts of the ecoies of other states. i think senators are  insensitive to the situations in their respective states. i can say that the place most seriously affected in the state of new york is the area around buffalo. an absolutely unacceptable rate of unemployment there has been attributable to the fact that defense orders in that area have dropped very seriously. that area has a rate of unemployment which is between 10 and 14 percent. it seems almost a crime. perhaps hing can be done about it. however. i explain this to the senators from california because i do  want them to believe that we are picking on them or their state. it really represents a deepseated problem which the people of our state feel we have to bring up and discuss. to try to see if in some way. we can get help.
s ecoic message to the congress on february 2. 1962: agencies of the federal government * * * are directed to give every reasonable preference to laborsurplus areas. at the same time he directed "prompt steps to improve the machinery by which federal contracts can be channeled to firms located in laborsurplus areas." but the latest figures indicate anew the failure of administration defenseprocurement policies to provide the promised aid to these areas in new york state. there are nine areas in new york which have been on the high unemployment list since 1958. awards to these areas dropped more than 20 percent in the julydecember 1961 period. as compared with the corresponding half year in 1960. in the first quarter of 1962. the two major new york state laborsurplus areas suffered continued declines. buffalos contract awards dropped 30 percent from the same quarter of 1961. and 28 percent from the average of that quarter over the last 4 years. likewise. uticarome dropped 12 percent from last years level. and 13 percent from the average of the last 4 years. these figures are particularly distressing in light of the opposite trends manifest in californias most important laborsurplus areas. administration action was quickly forthcoming when san diego and los angeleslong beach appeared on the surplus labor list. in glaring contrast to the case in new yorks high unemployment areas. during san diegos first complete quarter of high unemployment. the octoberdecember 1960 period. its defense contracts totaled $58.879.000. by the same quarter of 1961. contract awards had almost tripled. rising to $151.530.000. this process was accelerated in the first quarter of 1962. when procurement contracts soared to $281.057.000. the los angeleslong beach history is much the same. during its first complete quarter on the list. januarymarch 1961. awards totaled $287.894.000. by the corresponding quarter of 1962. defense contracts in this area had more than doubled. rising to $737.539.000. this $450 million increment sparked an ecoic revival that removed the area from the laborsurplus list in march of this year. the addition gave this single area more defense contracts during the first quarter of 1962 than those the entire state of new york received-$670.031.000. thus. defense contracts have  been used effectively to benefit surplus employment areas in new york state. this trend has continued during the kennedy administration. i am puzzled about why these trends should exist in the first place. i do  hold that there have been irregularities in the awarding of defense contracts. but i do ask wlether administrative inertia has denied business enterprises in many highly industrialized states throughout the nation a fair opportunity to present their qualifications and make their offers. in negotiated contracts. which account for an overwhelming proportion of total defense procurement. the department of defense asks several firms to submit bids. and these firms tend to be concentrated on the west coastparticularly in the state of california. this is grossly unfair to the other states. i believe in the widest possible use of formally advertised. open bidding. and i believe there is need for a much more conscientious search for qualified firms when only negotiated contracts are feasible. the result will be a more equitable distribution of defense contracts. and will further the national interest by procuring the best quality defense equipment at the lowest possible cost. in addition. it will strengthen the national ecoy. by sustaining the private sector in areas of the country  hampered by unemployed men and idle plant capacity. i have introduced an armed services competitive procurement bill. s. 1178. specifically designed to provide congressional direction for increased competitiveness in defense procurement. and for preferential treatment for small business and depressed areas. this measure recognizes the importance to the national defense of a strong ecoy in every section of the country. and particularly of a vigorous smallbusiness sector. in addition to the positive ecoic impact of this proposed legislation. i believe it will be of great benefit to the people of new york. this is because of the dynamic and competitive ecoic climate that prevails therea climate recently reflected in the achievement of an alltime high in business activity. this april. these gains have been achieved in spite of the adverse effects of defense procurement policies favoring california. at new yorks expense.
. may i say one further word about john bruff. i do  wish to be a party to campaign testimonials in his behalf. but i do wish to say. as a man and as a senator. that he is a fine gentleman. a very fine workman. and an excellent lawyer. we all have the highest regard for him. i am also deeply gratified that counsel for the majority was joined in working out the details of this measure by frank cummings. our counsel on the miity side. in whom i also take emous pride as one of the most distinguished labor lawyers who has ever given public service the benefit of his talents.
the wording of my amendment itself is practically the argument. it would be added to the bill at page 4. line 16. as a new subsection. which means that it follows the authorizations for appropriations on procurement as well as on research. development. testing. and evaluation. it reads as follows: insofar as practicable. the secretary of defense shall take into account as a favorable factor in awarding contracts for procurement under this act the undertaking by a contractor submitting a bid to employ a substantial number of unemployed or lowincome persons in carrying out the contract. and shall otherwise encourage employers performing work on contracts made pursuant to this section to train and employ such persons in carrying out such contracts. the purpose of this amendment. . and i hope very much that senators will take an interest in what could be an important contribution to meeting the very critical situation the country faces with regard to the crisis in the cities. i thank the senator from west virginia for his cooperation.
. the amendment i have proposed takes the provision of the house bill with respect to retroactivity and puts it in the senate bill. the retroactivity is limited to april 16 of this year. that is what my amendment expresses. it is limited to the 8percent increase which is in the senate bill. the only difference between this amendment and the senate bill. as it is. is that of retroactivity. back to april 16. the equity involved is the following: it is stoutly maintained on the part of those who negotiated the administrations postal act agreement that this retroactivity was assured. it is a fact. everyone ks it. even the editorials in the most ecoyminded newspapers in the country reflect that the country was shocked to discover how far behind the parade were the postal workers. how their marvelous discipline. their devotion to duty. and their trike obedience for so long kept them far behind other workers. as i say. the conservative press and the liberal press alike were unanimous about that. one of the ways they were expected to make up for this was that it was really owed to them out of equity. because it was only congress that could do justice to the postal workers. at that time it will. happily. be over. and this will be a business corporation dealing with organized workers. as it should. in the sense of labor negotiations. but this. it seems to me. is an elementary question of justice. i am rather surprised that it was left out of the senate bill. but it was left out. of course. it is true it took hazards in the negotiations which it seems to me were a little rough on the postal workers concerned. especially as this is  a matter of padding good wages or making a good settlement. but is something which many have admittedly agreed is a bad wage situation for postal workers. the amount is $110 million. i will  pretend it is less. it may be ed by my colleagues that i voted for the last amendment because i believe in paying our bills. i have voted for tax increases and will do so again if we have to. indeed. i think we need one right . as a practical matter. but justice should be done to the postal 22340 co workers. the house did. and i think that the senate should. if the substitute had gone through. we would have settled. but it did  go through. so i think we should do this elementary thing.
. i will state the figures that worried me. the senate bill had $4.5 billion in addons for this public service employment. that was for 1972. 1973. 1974. and 1975. that amount was cut to $2 billion. i feel that. under the serious unemployment we  face. that is  a wayoutoftheballpark figure.
. generally speaking. this is the amendment we discussed a little while ago. it is intended to preserve discretion in the secretary in order to deal with the concerns of some -members of the senate that. because of the high technical qualifications of certain categories of personnellike those. for example. who have been affected by aerospace difficultieswe ought to take some precaution in respect of the prevailing wage concept in this emergency measure dealing uniquely with public service employment. i just thoughtsince a substantial body of members feel that way. and the senator from wisconsin and i agreedthat this was a suitable protection we could take so the secretary would  be faced with automaticity in this regard. it would give him.  a great deal. but some element of discretion. i understand the amendment is agreeable to the manager of the bill.
 overnight my staff and that of senator williams and the staff of senator ervin and the agencies concernedto wit. the equal employment opportunity commission and government procurement peoplehave been in touch with each other. that is. the agency of the department of labor dealing with government contractors and equal employment opportunity have been in touch with each other. and they have  produced a draft of a revised ervin amendment which takes account of the problems raised by the senator. with which there was substantial agreement by the senator from new jersey and myself. except that i could  see that the way in which the amendment had been drafted solved the problems. i  believe that it solves the problems equitably. technically. and appropriately and i am prepared. on a rollcall vote. to vote for the amendment. i would hope that perhaps right  the senator from th carolina could revise his amendment according to the new draft. so that when we come out of the next quorum call we will be ready to vote for it without further delay.
with that full background i will  explain the amendment. briefly to the senate. for members who may  have been present. the effort made here is to restore $55.730.000 for the neighborhood youth corps summer job program. and to provide $9.946.580 for recreational support. and $1.983.431 for transportation support. s reason for seeking the rescissionwhich was that funds appropriated for the emergency employment act. which is employment to deal with endemic unemployment. should be utilized for this purpose to the tune of $300 million. therefore. the administration said. "you have egh money. if you go into that. so you do  have to appropriate any. rescind what you have already appropriated." but the appropriations committee here and in the other body rejected that. i wish to emphasize. as i have before when i have come to the senate with the same plea. that what the committee has already done has been very le and very responsive to what we originally claimed. i have quarrels with the committee. it is simply a question of what we can do to meet the need. the committee has already stated. with respect to the proposed rescission for the depart ment of labor: the committee strongly recommends against the use of funds for public service employment to carry out the neighborhood youth corps summer program. the committee feels that the programs involved are intended to serve two separate and distinct purposes and that funds should  be commingled. that is the biggest part of our plea.  we come to the senate. we originally came to the committee. and we say: "great. what you have done is fine." and that includes. i am confident the committee felt. the moral obligation to see that this is spent. because here we are dealing with what we have to do in a supplemental. because summer is tomorrow. right here. and the cities have to make their plans. otherwise. we might as well. forget about the whole thing. they can wait for next years appropriation. so i say to the committee that what they have done is splendid. the difficulty is that they have  even enabled us to equal last years program. and to cut that program in the various cities is asking more than they should. what is going to happen is exactly what the committee does  want to happen. many areas will have to go into these emergency funds and put other people out of business. to repeat a phrase i have used in the past. they would fire the father to hire the son. it might cut out other programs in order to meet last years goal in respect to the neighborhood youth corps summer program this year. i come to the senate. together with a large number of other senators. with a plea that we do at least as much as we did last year. and that is an adequte recognition of financial exegencies. needs certified by mayors and other organizations in testimony. let us have at least what we had last year of 740.222 slots. i k the senator from washington
i realize that. and again. with the greatest respect and full recognition of the remarkable feeling that the chairman and the ranging member and so many other members of this committee on appropriations have. to understand us. you have to realize that. one public service employment is often coupled with training. because that is the way in which they got ready to go out after 2 years in order to get a regular job. second. serious unemployment will also involve an effort to upgrade many workers. last. the department of labor itself bears out what i said about the quick transition. they say in their report. which i have already placed in the record: program evaluators have generally commented favorably upon this demonstration that bureaucracies can mobilize efficiently. the first participants were at work in just a few weeks after the legislation was signed that is as to public service employment. that bears out our argument that this is the one place that we can really translate money into jobs very quickly.
. on february 7. 1975. senator williams. the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. and i. joined by senator nelson. the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor. and 12 other senators. introduced s. 609. the emergency public service employment extension act of 1975. cosponsors included senators brooke. case. hathaway. hum-
 had  the remotest ion. when he made the statement he did. that we would be pulling our people out of vietnam and that 150.000 vietnamese would land on the shores of the united states. again. that is an emergency which we simply have to accept. in addition. he himself estimated current unemployment as lower than that which confronts us  by about 1 full percentage point. again. this is an emergency which hits us. which we must deal with whether we will or . it seems to me. therefore. when you couple those points with the fact that there is grave insufficiency in the aggregate number in public service employment. which is down about twothirds from what it really ought to be this amendment does  meet our objective. even though we have made very important accommodations--certainly my colleague from new york obviously does  complain about that in any waywith respect to the operation of the private enterprise system. this covers solvent as well as insolvent railroads. in the method by which that is done as to the cooperation of the trade unions. they may very well  have been cooperative. if they felt that this represented some loss in the overall effort to relieve longterm unemployment through a diminution of the public service employment program. it seems tol me that this amendment is inappropriate to the objective which obviously we are all trying to serve and. therefore. should be rejected by the senate.
