staff counsel. committee on commerce. senate office building. washington. d.c. dear mr. reid: i was very disappointed. because of a previous appointment. that i was unable to visit our capitol forest/cedar creek youth camp with senator magnuson. with reference to your inquiry relative to certain statistics about the youth camp. some question has arisen in our minds. we here in the department of natural resources are connected with two different types of forestry camps for boys. one is the camp that we operate in conjunction with the department of institutions. such as the one visited by senator magnuson and buck harmon. in these camps the boys are actually wards of the state. most of them having been in some type of difficulty with the law. although a few merely have other place to go. all of them have been committed to the department of institutions by the courts. our second type of forestry camp is the type where we employ boys in the age bracket of 17 to 19. primarily for forest fire suppression activities. these crews are also used for improvement of our stateowned forest lands. it is this type of crew (institutional) around which we have anticipated that the federal government might institute one of the job corps programs. we assume that your request for accomplishment statistics from our institutional youth camp programs is primarily to illustrate what might be accomplished with a job corps program. in direct answer to your request. we report the. following work accomplishments from the cooperative department of institutionsdepartment of natural resources forestry youth camps. we have 4 such camps in the state. averaging about 45 boys per camp. however. periodically one of the camps is occupied by younger boys who go to formal school rather than participate in the forestry program. the first camp started with a very meager beginning in 1952. our expanded program started in 1959. these camps. with their forester and foreman. have: 1. built some 30 miles of forest access road. 2. constructed five bridges. 3. maintained and improved some 100 miles of existing forest access road. which includes brushing of the roads. roadside spraying. replacement of culverts. and graveling. 4. effected some type of reforestation practice. such as seeding. planting and brush elimination on 1.530 acres. 5. effected forest management work such as thinning. pruning. and basal spraying on 1.500 acres. 6. assisted on some 45 miles of property line survey. 7. assisted in the preparation of state timber sales totaling 13 million boardfeet. 8. assisted in the preparation of some 722 acres for christmas tree lease. and practiced christmas tree culture. including weeding and pruning of christmas trees. on some 700 acres. 9. in conjunction with the states cattle permit ranges. they have constructed 13 miles of fencing. 10. built concrete camp stoves for public picnic areas. 11. built and set concrete section corner markers. 12. constructed five picnic grounds. 13. worked at fire hazard reduction. 14. developed waterholes for forest fire fighting. 15. worked in suppressing 103 forest fires in the state. 16. one real big timeconsuming job has been the clearing of 93 acres for the expansion of our state forest nursery. the clearing here is a very intense type of clearing so that all the fibrous material will be removed from the ground to allow for uniform drill seeding in the seedling beds. all of these accomplishments have been made with "committed" boys. mostly in the age class of 15 through 17. while both the work accomplished and the rehabilitation of the boys have been rewarding. even more work could be accomplished with older boys competing for the opportunity to participate in the programs. the department of institutions reports that 85 percent of the boys discharged from these camps have had further trouble with the law. some of these boys have ditotal 1959 income for families rectly used the skills they have learned in the program on jobs they later acquired in civilian life. but. more importantly. the boys learn good work habits under responsible leadership. in the long run. the establishment of good work habits may be of more material benefit than some of the specific skills they learn. in order for any worktraining program to be successful. we think that the men or boys must be engaged in necessary and profitable work rather than makework projects. it is hard to create much work incentive on a makework project. secondly. the program needs the necessary modern equipment to allow efficient operation. this is justified where work projects are profitable and useful. and if the program is really going to train the incumbents for outside jobs. in washington. with. our 3 million acres of state land ownership. the opportunity for worthwhile projects is unlimited. a corps program could provide a means for accomplishing many of these longrange projects. and equally. or more importantly. help the men and boys enrolled in the program. sincerely yours.
. the procedure today. wherein an extremely weak bill is being brought to the house under suspension of the rules and without opportunity for amendment. is unconscionable. * along with congressman cohelan and others. i introduced legislation providing for a 90.000acre park. the senate has passed legislation establishing a 64.000acre park. which is minimal. the bill before us. which calls for a park containing 28.000 acresof which 18.000 is already protected in california state parksis an abdication of our responsibilities and a sellout to interests other than the national interest and the public interest. as the sierra club has pointed out: at 28.000 acres. this plan is less than half the size of the plan approved by the senate (64.000 acres). which was itself a major compromise. smaller than any plan previously put before the congress. it contains even less than the lumber companies have talked of selling willingly. built around two state parks. the committee plan limits acquisition of private lands mainly to a corridor a quartermile wide along each side of redwood creek. with a bulge at the end along the emerald mile.... the plan misses the mark with respect to almost all purposes which a redwood national park woud serve: real forest is preserved. the natural environment will  be protected. there will  be room for public use. some of the finest specimen stands will be abandoned. scientific values will be minimal. in its efforts to keep the landowning lumber companies whole. the committee has lost sight of what a national park is for. the sierra club points out that the park agreed upon by the conference committee should include four areas omitted by the present bill: the slopes along redwood creek. the oldgrowth in lost man creek. and the drainages of little lost man creek and skunk cabbage creek. which flow into redwood creek. all are in the plan adopted by the senate. and have been included in various .plans put forth by the national park service. the upper slopes of redwood creek are the critical setting for the streamside trees. providing scenery. a living environment. space for public use. and watershed protection. lost man creek harbors the finest strands of extralarge redwood that have yet survived without protection. they will  last if left out of the park. little lost man creek and skunk cabbage creek. clothed almost entirely with primeval redwoods. are possibly the last two untouched watersheds that can be found in the redwood region. i am voting against this bill. as it is a national outrage and a totally inadequate response to a great conservation need. the bill in its present form would create a sham and shadow of a national park. we still have the greatest redwood forests left on earth. and what is needed is a park as magnificent as the redwoods. it would be unthinkable if congress did  act responsibly. i hope that the conference will report back a much stronger billbut. sadly. under conference rules it can be greater in scope that the senate bill. which is still inadequate and minimal.
. the 1992 interior appropriations bill directs the forest service to offer for sale specific volumes of timber in each forest service regionincluding those in areas containing the thern spotted owl. these owls are protected under the endangered species act iesa] which requires that federal lands be managed in a manner that will  jeopardize the continued survival of a listed species. although h.r. 2686 sets specific targets for the volume of timber to be offered from the regions that are home to spotted owls. hing in h.r. 2686 or the committee report exemptseither explicitly or implicitlythe forest service from its duty to comply fully with the esa or other laws regarding protection of wildlife on public lands. including the national forest management act [nfma]. as the interior appropriations committee report es at page 89: . the committee has provided volume targets in order to maintain accountability for the resources provided. the committee has  specified mandatory targets. the committee recognizes that additional information may become available during the year. * 0 this additional information may include information about actions which must be taken to provide for the protection of the thern spotted owl or other wildlife and fish species as mandated by the esa or other laws. therefore. it is clear that the forest service hasthe necessary flexibility to adjust timber volumes if necessaryand i would stress only if this proves necessaryto adhere to the requirements of esa. this flexibility is extremely important. in my view. to ensure that we protect all the varied resources of our nations forests. while significant stands of old growth forests are protected in national parks and wilderness areas. these areas do  currently provide adequate habitat to ensure the continued existence of the thern spotted owl. the spotted owl is considered an important indicator of the health of its ecosystem. in fact. the forest service itself years ago chose the owl as an indicator species under the nfma. a vanishing owl indicates a level of timber harvest that is  sustainable over the long term. i am pleased that the committee on appropriations. in reporting h.r. 2686. took action which would amend or waive esa. which is within the jurisdiction of the committee on environient and public works on which i serve. inclusion of such an amendment would only serve to delay the development of a forest management strategy that would provide for both timber harvest and the conservation of other valuable forest resources. including healthy populations of fish and wildlife.
