member of congress. house office building. washington. d.c. dear congressman kupferman: it was with great interest that i read in the april 25. 1966 edition of the evening star the column. the rambler. wherein he mentioned your interest in se control. our international brotherhood has been for some time very much concerned about the se problem and we are doing everything possible to see to it that some method of controls are  only adopted by the federal government but also by the states as well. king of your sincere interest in this problem. i am enclosing a copy of our latest publication. industrial se control and hearing conservation program. on the subject. you will e that we offered a se control program that met with approval by both the department of labor and the u.s. department of health. should there be anything our organization can do in the way of supplying additional information on the se problem. please feel free to call on me for such information. legislation is needed . before the loss of hearing becomes an accepted condition of living. with best wishes. i am respectfully yours..harold j. buoy. assistant to the international president.
. i ask unanimous consent that a bill introduced by the senator from new jersey earlier today be jointly referred to the committee on public works. the committee on labor and public welfare. and the committee on aeronautical and space sciences. the bill is entitled "the ozone protection act of 1975."
a fourth element contained in the conference agreement is the socalled "stafford program." proposed by the distinguished senator from vermont . this program of community conservation and improvement projects will involve the employment of some 20.000 16to19yearolds in small community rehabilitation programs. when the public works bill was on the floor early this year. it contained a title ii youth employment program similar in most respects to subpart 2 of this bill. senator stafford. senator randolph. and other cosponsors stayed their hands. as it were. and agreed to strip the bill of that title because they wanted to give the human resources committee a chance to consider the program. i am so pleased the full senate and the house conferees have seen the great merit of this program and i commend the senator from vermont
