as a cosponsor. for the third consecutive year. of the cooperhart amendment i wish to state my reasons for supporting the substance of this years amendment. which i had a hand in shaping. the amendment i support authorizes approximately $1 billionincluding resource and development funds--for continuing work of phase i of safeguard at grand forks and malmstrom. i am etheless convinced that the safeguard system should and may well never beconstructed. spokesmen for the president have insisted most urgently that safeguard is an indispensable "bargaining chip" at the strategic arms limitation talkssaltwith the soviet union. it has been intimated by administration spokesmen that a salt agreement to limit offensive and defensive strategic systems is within our grasp. it is further intimated that the senate action to kill safeguard altogether is the single action most likely to jeopardize the achievement of a salt agreement at this time. that is an arresting argument. it has been criticized on several grounds and e of us are happy with it. the senate has  been consulted. or adequately briefed. on the conduct of the salt negotiations. as called for in the constitution. consequently. we are  in a position to dispute the administrations assertion regarding the direct correlation between safeguard and the prospects for a salt agreement. under the circumstances. we must give the benefit of the doubt to the president. i am prepared to authorize an additional billion dollars for further work on the two sites authorized last year to enhance the prospect of an early salt agreementwhich reportedly calls for the subsequent disbandment of the two authorized sites. in short. i am prepared to take salt with a grain of safeguard. five distinguished men. with important experience in arms control negotiations in previous administrations. in a letter published in the washington post on august 10. have challenged head on the "bargaining chip" rationale for safeguard. this joint statement by averell harriman. karl kaysen. adrian fisher. franklin long. and herbert scoville asserts thatin our judgment. a senate vote against the abm is a vote for success in salt. on the other hand. the chairman of the senate armed services committee. senator stennis. has stated: it is my firm opinionand this is  an overnight thoughtthat to defeat safeguard in the senate this year would be the worst possible setback that we could hand to the strategic arms limitation talks in vienna. senator jackson. the floor manager. has stated: i remain convinced that deployment of safeguard is an essential condition for the salt talks to succeed. it is secret that the position asserted by senator stennis and senator jackson is the position of the highest authorities of the administration. it is a position which is also maintained by. lower level officials who have been intimately involved in the daytoday negotiating process of the salt talks. in its boldest form. the assertion that safeguard is essential to the success of salt lacks a compelling persuasiveness. i have heard one plausible "explanation" of this proposition which has helped to overcome my own skepticism and which i would. accordingly. like to share with the senate. it has been explained to me that the soviet negotiating team represents a coalition of interests having diverse reasons for wanting a salt agreement. it is said that the soviet negotiating coalition is a delicately constructed one and that the element representing soviet. military is the most reluctant and suspicious element. the group representing the soviet unions military viewpoint is said to be interested primarily in halting the development of an american abm system. presumablyusing the "worst case" wargaming approachthe soviet strategic planners place a higher efficacy factor on safeguards capabilities than our own scientific community does. accordingly. it is contended that the soviet military component. which is prominently represented in the soviet negotiating team. might lose interest in achieving salt agreement if the safeguard system is killed off in the senate. the defection of the soviet military element could disrupt the delicately constructed soviet negotiating consensus and thus jeopardize an agreement otherwise desired by other elements of the soviet hierarchy. i feel that i have choice but to give the benefit of doubt to the president and his negotiators in this situation. for this reason. in discussions leading to the formulation of the cooperhart amendment i urged that appropriate account must be taken of the administrations "bargaining chip" contention. i am satisfied that this consideration is fully accommodated in the cooperhart amendment. in authorizing further construction only of the two sites authorized by the senate last year. in accepting the "bagaining chip" thesis to the extent that it is accommodated by the cooperhart amendment. i etheless wish to express my dissatisfaction with the administrations handling of the crucial question of the relationship of the salt talks to the safeguard program. in my judgment. the soviet union undoubtedly has a variety of incentives motivating it to seek an agreement to limit the strategic arms race. in an overall sense. i believe that concein over safeguard. per se. is a mi factor in soviet calculations. the broader and more significant incentives i would judge to be such factors as: first. a compulsion to avoid the vast ecoic expense of an accelerated arms race involving the next generation of strategic nuclear weapons and uncertainty as to the capacity of soviet techogy in the computer and electronics fields to compete successfully with the united states on the next generation of weapons systems. second. a desire to achieve formal international acceptance of its position of strategic parity with the united states. third. a desire to ease and stabilize its strategic relationship with the west. in anticipation of a growing strategic threat from communist china in the east. the major incentives of the united states in seeking a salt agreement are matters which go to the very heart of our national life and values and of our position in the world. in my judgment. concern over the alleged ss9 threat is also a mi factor in the overall national decision to seek a salt agreement. with its inevitable farreaching implications. the themes and issues of salt are the great and encompassing questions of our era. they are preeminently the issues most in need of thorough debate and consideration in the senate. in this context. it is regrettable. in my judgment. that the administration has chosen to depict salt to the senate as a bargaining process essentially concerned with trading off abm against $89. as recently as his july 30 press conference. president nixon publicly expressed optimism at reaching a salt agreement. virtually the whole case for safeguard this year is being made on the grounds of its indispensability to the prospects of a salt agreement. it is precisely because the senate shares the constitutional responsibility for salt that i consider the administrations handling of this issue with the senate to be inadequate and unsatisfactory. at the opening of my statement i expressed my conviction that the safeguard system should and never may beconstructed. the technical justification for safeguard has been called into such grave doubt that even the pentagon has conceded key points in the criticism and has indicated the intention to modify safeguard extensively along lines suggested earlier by its critics. in my judgment. the basic flaw of the safeguard system from the techogical viewpoint is the same as that which proved to be the undoing of the tfx. by attempting to design a system which could perform several divergent missionsthat is. light area defense as well as -hardpoint defense of minutemansafeguard ends up being unable satisfactorily to perform any of its assigned missions. the analogy to tfx and its illfated albatross of "commonality" is  branded conspicuously onto safeguard. senators cooper and hart and others have summarized the techogical case against safeguard in some detail. moreover. there is extensive testimony by a blueribbon roster of american scientistsin and out of governmentin the printed hearings before four congressional committees detailing at length the technical deficiencies of safeguard. it is  surprising that safeguard should prove to be so vulnerable on technical groundsconsidering its diverse background. it was first presented to congress in its sentinel configuration as a system intended to provide a light population defense against a chinese communist threat. even in this incarnation. members of the joint chiefs of staff and ranking members of the armed services committee supported the system primarily as a "building block" in a potential "thick" area defense against a soviet threat. early in 1969. the system was reconfigured out of the same components. rechristened safeguard and given the primary mission of "hardpoint" defense of minuteman deterrent. to this. the subsidiary missions of defense against a chinese "blackmail" threat and defense against a soviet "accidental launch" were subseqsently added. this year. the senate armed services committee has again altered the mission of safeguard. in the words of senator jackson: safeguard has been confined to defense of the deterrent. authorization of a thin area defense has been specifically denied. however. according to the recommendations of the oneill reportspecifically solicited by the defense department from a blue ribbon panel of defense scientistsif the only purpose of safeguard is defined to be to protect minutemen. phase iia as defined in march 1969 should  proceed. instead. a dedicated system for active defense of minutemen should replace or ... augment phase iia. in addition. the oneill report specifically states: phase i alone is  worth its cost. these are the technical reasons for my conviction that the safeguard system should . and never ought to be. built. there is an additional ironic. and perhaps more significant. reason for my conviction that safeguard will never be builtthe salt negotiations which are  cited as the main justification for safeguard. according to reports. we are on the verge of reaching a salt agreement which will provide for "zero" abm. or. more probably. for abm systems restricted exclusively to protection of the national command authorities--that is. washington and moscow. accordingly. if there is a salt agreement it is likely to require the dismantling of work completed thus far at malmstrom and grand forks. if the salt talks fail. on the other hand. it will be necessary for us to reconsider the entire question of our strategic posture. both with respect to offensive as well as defensive systems. i do  believe that safeguard where it is . could justify its survival under either set of circumstances. it is precisely because the failure of salt will result in circumstances which require a thoroughand wholly unpleasantrethinking of our entire strategic posture and requirementswith the most omis and dangerous implications for world peace and security. that i am prepared to concede the benefit of the doubt to the administrations contention that it needs safeguard for the success of salt. if we are able to get an agreement limiting offensive and defensive weaponsand thus averting a new round of the nuclear arms racei would consider the $1 billion authorized for additional work on safeguard to be money well spent.
