 must make an affirmative determination with regard to the national interest in respect to amendment  3 before approving the export of any agricultural commodity under title i of public law 480 to the united arab republic in fiscal year 1965. i also understood the gentleman to say he believed a clear flag of caution had been raised by the congress. i understood him to mean that this touched on the question of the united arab republics shipment of arms to the congo. united arab republic intervention in the yemen. and any threats to peace in the near east flowing from recent arab summit conferences. the formation of an arab joint military command. proposed diversion of the headwaters of the jordan river. and threats to the peace of the area generally. is that a correct understanding.
i thank the gentleman from arkansas and i hope we can get back to a voluntary system and away from this tax at the earliest possible dateas it is a clear restraint on the free market. a protective tariff on capital transactionsthat runs the risk of the loss of our financial markets to europe for relatively modest. short term gains.
. i am pleased to join senators roth and stevenson as a sponsor of the senate export caucus national export policy act of 1980. this legislation is truly the product of a collaborative effort. and i am especially proud to have been able to contribute to it. the national export policy act of 1980 represents a unique and important leadership role on the part of the u.s. senate to help expand exports. for the first time. numerous and varied exportrelated proposals have been grouped together to be studied and considered in a complete and comprehensive manner. . we will be better able to discuss export financing policy and tax policy. foreign trade zones and export promotion programs. or antitrust regulations and government trade disincentivesand how they all relate to each other. in addition. this bill breaks new ground by addressing some difficult and new issues. with the inclusion of my proposal to amend the foreign corrupt practices act. or new small business export assistance programs. trading companies. antitrust clarifications. and increased export financing. we are providing the groundwork for a necessary review of these incentives and disincentives. finally. and perhaps most importantly. the introduction of this legislation is in itself an accomplishment. it is an accomplishment of perspective because it provides the proper framework by which these many exportrelated issues should be addressed. to view taxation of americans working overseas as a simple question of tax equity. or to debate the foreign corrupt practices act as a topic in securities law or international corruption is to look at these issues through the wrong end of the telescope. if we expect our businesses to be aggressive and competitive abroad. we must begin to think about the effects of legislation and regulation and policy on u.s. exports. in every area. in every committee of congress. in every agency. export promotion and increased competitiveness must become a priority. the national export policy act of 1980 may  be complete. but it is a first step toward a unified national policy on trade. the issue here is one of a stronger u.s. ecoy. and of more jobs for americans. since every $1 billion in export sales result in a minimum of 40.000 jobs here at home. our current trade deficit means we are losing well over a million job each year. i am pleased that i have been able to contribute to this bill on the subject of taxation of americans overseas. and on the subject of the foreign corrupt practices act. two major export impediments. i will continue to push these proposals both as separate legislation and as significant parts of the national export policy act. i strongly urge all of my colleagues as well as the administration. and all those who are interested in expanding our exports to carefully review this bill. and to join us in plotting a national policy. a single direction. and a clear course of action.0 (the following proceedings occurred later: )
 carters the reconimendat.ons for increases in rates budget for fiscal year 1981containing of pay for positions described in stbparathe proposed pay raisewas submitted graph (3) of section 225(f) of such act (2 to congress. the resolution was re- u.s.c. 350(b)). relating to certain positions drafted in order to conform more closely in tie legislative branch. to the format of the proposed pay increase. amendments sumbitted for i am pleased that the senator from printing misouri and the senato. from west virginia export trading companies act have joined me as cosponsors of this resolution. and i look forward to its prompt amendment  4 consideration.* (odered to be printed and referred to the committee onl banking. housing. and urban affairs.) senate resolution 68resolu- mr. proxmire submitted an amendtion disapproving pay recom- meat intended to be proposed by him to mendations regarding posi- the bill (s.. 144) to encourage exports tions under executive sched- by facilitating the formation and opule eration of export trading companies. ex-
in answer to the distinguished senator from vermont. i would think getting half of the pie ought to be satisfactory. to come in and demand all the pie i would think -would promote some embarrassment on behalf of the sponsors. but it has  slowed them up. at least to date. i would point out. and it might be interesting. that all the states share in exports. in my state. for example. one out of every seven manufacturing jobs is dependent upon exports. a higher ratio than the national average. for example. ohio was the third largest exporting state in 1981. the last year for which we have figures. .ohio exports over $113 billion of goods. the main exports froti ohio. being an agricultural state. the ninth largest. are feed grains. soybeans. and dairy products. it is  just ohio and it is  just rhode island. i suspect vermont has a vigorous export industry. and so does pennsylvania and all the other states of the nation. . the amendment is bad policy. it is bad ecoic policy because it creates a new subsidy for an industry and a union already favored. it is bad policy because it means that the taxes we raise in this bill will buy less highway and bridge improvement. it is bad trade policy because it produces retaliation by our trading partners. which could escalate into a full scale trade war from which one would gain and everyone would lose. the amendment should be rejected because it has  been studied by the committee of jurisdiction. in spite of its potential dangers. it should be rejected because it is bad for consumers. bad for taxpayers. and bad for our nation. i thank the chair.
 reagan is relishing doing battle on that issue. where does this leave us. first of all. those who support freer tradeespecially republicansshould  flinch from this pressure. we should welcome a wideranging debate over trade. this could be a golden opportu nity to broaden the partys appeal and to win new votes from consumers. farmers and workers. why (o i single out thes three groups. pirst. protectionism is blatant ly against the interests of the consum ers. in virtually every case. import re strictions lead to both higher prices and a restricted selection of consumer goods. second. the major portions of the farm community are weil awar of the vulnerability of amerien iagricil ture to foreign retaliation if we begin erecting new trade barriers. with over a million u.s. jobs dependent upon x ports of billions of dollars w ort i of oa ricultural commodities. fanners havye been in the forefront of opposition to protectionist legislation like the num1lo mobile domestic content bill. these farmers will vote in a way that ficilitates farm exports.  imlperlls them. third. protectionism will inevitably mean a net loss of american jobs which stem from trade. both imports and exports. for every job saved by protectionism. many others will be lost. let the protectionists justify ac tions which destroy american jobs. the world trading systen has been under serious pressure since .he global recession of 1981 and 1982. we certain ly face serious problems in our trade relations with others. our trading partners have trade barriers which a-(both unfair and frostrating to amieri cans. but we inerely aggravate the. problem by giving in to that frustra tion and using the opportunities of an eleciton year to press for enactmient of protectionist laws. there is much that congress can do positively to enhance the american share of world trade. we should focus on ways to help open foreign markets for u.s. goods as well as ways to assist the exporters competitive position. this can be accomplished in ways that are consistent with our international trading obligations under gatt and which dont makt consumers and workers worse off. one such effort is the reciprocity bill. h.1. 3398title iii. s. 144the international trade and investment act. enactment of this bill this year is vital to improve our ability to negotiate the removal of foreign trade barriers and restrictive practices. and to improve our export trade in services. high techogy goods. and trade related investment. full implementation of both its letter and its spirit can provide significantly improved access to foriegn markets for u.s. goods and services. other pending legislationlike the reauthorization of the generalized system of preferences which would help us gain freer access to ldc markets. help developing countries earn dollars with which to buy u.s. products. and help us obtain protection of u.s. patents and copyrightsdeserve s 93s1 july j6. 1984 our uren.t nietion. . ilite spate of protfrlionist bills whlich inl say view .ilnl the sli rl of dangerous trade wa r. iln this ecelion year. however. we :i afford fo try to please everyone. we toust choo si thr course ahici ihrnirae-: our wvorld trading svstemin whilf aw -oidling i home proevt etionist iwesires wh ih swould dismantle it. conlctrle:s call (njte laws wh11ic(h help aifriia fins o compelte ill world ma1:r kets. withouit ilroddling tho.s industi les w hich re use to ernize in the iaie (if t iem- inimiis i rids by i heir familan comlpelifors. i donlot. believe that our workvrs and indistries must eceupt ilie use of unfair practltees by forein comitirivitors in their efforts to piita iu.s.inns:1kets. 1l1 1t1 iv ali two ways to detal with lowitu competition. oile way is it) keep it 0111. a.her way is to do all av (nin to imeet it and tioptfully beat. it. conlgress and this administration i iave so far chosen i ie second coursewhich is belter for everyone. especially the consumer. if we ar(- committed to a ust ained ecoic recovery. we must hold fast. to our cornimmitent to free trade aiid 111 pcrmit. protecti oniin to sitlmie oir efforts to improve ie world ir .l sit uation for american exporlters. tilltllie to peter 11111u . new
 reagan to express our outrage over the administrations failure to control the surge of textile imports into the united states. the import increases have posed a grave situation for the american textile industry. including that of my own state of rhode island. and we -can longer sit back and watch our constituents lose their jobs to foreign imports. i ask that the text of our letter be printed at this point in the record. the letter follows.
. i am pleased to join senator roth as a sponsor of this bill to extend the trade adjustment assistance [taa) program. retroactively from december 19. 1985. this extension is necessary to january 2.9. 1986 january -29. 1986 co keep the program going until this congress completes action on the renewal of the taa program contained in our budget reconciliation measure. still in conference. furthermore the extension is necessary to case the plight of those unfortunate workers whose benefits were stopped midstream on december 19. 1985. because the congress failed to complete action renewing the program. i am also a cosponsor of the original proposal to restructure the taa program. which has already received the approval of house and senate conferees on the budget reconciliation bill. this program fulfills a commitment to americas workers who are dislocated due to our open markets. for the past 4 years america has. been flooded with bargain imports and its traditional exportsmachinery. chemicals. electronics. grainhave lost their price competitiveness. industry after industry has come to the congress seeking protection from imports. these industries. and their workers. assume that we have more to lose to open world trade than we have to benefit from it. open markets serve america in very tangible ways. unfettered trade gives consumers access to a greater variety of products at lower prices. trade forces domestic industries to adjust to changing techogy before they become hopelessly inefficient. perhaps most important. trade is the primary source of hope for the worlds poor and indebted. increasing their stake in a stable world ecoic order. trade adjustment assistance is an essential aspect of this open system. we have all had our complaints in the past about the taa program in this country because of the way it has been organized and administered. but i believe we all recognize the stake that workers have in our efforts to dismantle trade barriers. some workers. laid off because of competing imports. have reason to rejoice over cheap. high quality steel coming from korea. unemployed textile workers in rhode island. for example. hardly revel in the fact that american consumers are buying low cost high quality sweaters from hong kong in increasing numbers. this trade adjustment program can offset the sacrifice we impose on workers. fortunately we have come up with a program which stresses adjustment through retraining and  simply assistance through cash payments. this extension keeps the existing program going until we can put this new program into place. the revisied program is consistent with our current efforts to trim federal spending. in that the program would be funded through imposition of a very smallf fee on imports. which we want the gatt to endorse. permitting all gatt members to do the same. i feel very confident that our trading partners would also welcome the opportunity to put into place a good retraining program. creatively funded to reduce budgetary pressures. trade adjustment assistance programs provide an alternative policy to import restrictions as a temporary relief measure for workers. the cost of extending the program and the slight burden it places on imports are far less than the cost that consumers and the entire ecoy will suffer if we enact import protections for industries and workers which are suffering at the hands of foreign competition. we can afford to abandon our commitment to an open and liberal international trading system. but neither can we ige the plight of workers who are dislocated due to import competition. we certainly can ige the difficulties being experienced by those currently in the program whose benefits were terminated december 19 solely because of the congress failure to renew the program.
 reagan is relishing doing battle on that issue. where does this leave us. first of all. those who support freer tradeespecially republicansshould  flinch from this pressure. we should welcome a wideranging debate over trade. this could be a golden opportu nity to broaden the partys appeal and to win new votes from consumers. farmers and workers. why (o i single out thes three groups. pirst. protectionism is blatant ly against the interests of the consum ers. in virtually every case. import re strictions lead to both higher prices and a restricted selection of consumer goods. second. the major portions of the farm community are weil awar of the vulnerability of amerien iagricil ture to foreign retaliation if we begin erecting new trade barriers. with over a million u.s. jobs dependent upon x ports of billions of dollars w ort i of oa ricultural commodities. fanners havye been in the forefront of opposition to protectionist legislation like the num1lo mobile domestic content bill. these farmers will vote in a way that ficilitates farm exports.  imlperlls them. third. protectionism will inevitably mean a net loss of american jobs which stem from trade. both imports and exports. for every job saved by protectionism. many others will be lost. let the protectionists justify ac tions which destroy american jobs. the world trading systen has been under serious pressure since .he global recession of 1981 and 1982. we certain ly face serious problems in our trade relations with others. our trading partners have trade barriers which a-(both unfair and frostrating to amieri cans. but we inerely aggravate the. problem by giving in to that frustra tion and using the opportunities of an eleciton year to press for enactmient of protectionist laws. there is much that congress can do positively to enhance the american share of world trade. we should focus on ways to help open foreign markets for u.s. goods as well as ways to assist the exporters competitive position. this can be accomplished in ways that are consistent with our international trading obligations under gatt and which dont makt consumers and workers worse off. one such effort is the reciprocity bill. h.1. 3398title iii. s. 144the international trade and investment act. enactment of this bill this year is vital to improve our ability to negotiate the removal of foreign trade barriers and restrictive practices. and to improve our export trade in services. high techogy goods. and trade related investment. full implementation of both its letter and its spirit can provide significantly improved access to foriegn markets for u.s. goods and services. other pending legislationlike the reauthorization of the generalized system of preferences which would help us gain freer access to ldc markets. help developing countries earn dollars with which to buy u.s. products. and help us obtain protection of u.s. patents and copyrightsdeserve s 93s1 july j6. 1984 our uren.t nietion. . ilite spate of protfrlionist bills whlich inl say view .ilnl the sli rl of dangerous trade wa r. iln this ecelion year. however. we :i afford fo try to please everyone. we toust choo si thr course ahici ihrnirae-: our wvorld trading svstemin whilf aw -oidling i home proevt etionist iwesires wh ih swould dismantle it. conlctrle:s call (njte laws wh11ic(h help aifriia fins o compelte ill world ma1:r kets. withouit ilroddling tho.s industi les w hich re use to ernize in the iaie (if t iem- inimiis i rids by i heir familan comlpelifors. i donlot. believe that our workvrs and indistries must eceupt ilie use of unfair practltees by forein comitirivitors in their efforts to piita iu.s.inns:1kets. 1l1 1t1 iv ali two ways to detal with lowitu competition. oile way is it) keep it 0111. a.her way is to do all av (nin to imeet it and tioptfully beat. it. conlgress and this administration i iave so far chosen i ie second coursewhich is belter for everyone. especially the consumer. if we ar(- committed to a ust ained ecoic recovery. we must hold fast. to our cornimmitent to free trade aiid 111 pcrmit. protecti oniin to sitlmie oir efforts to improve ie world ir .l sit uation for american exporlters. tilltllie to peter 11111u . new
 reagan to express our outrage over the administrations failure to control the surge of textile imports into the united states. the import increases have posed a grave situation for the american textile industry. including that of my own state of rhode island. and we -can longer sit back and watch our constituents lose their jobs to foreign imports. i ask that the text of our letter be printed at this point in the record. the letter follows.
. i am pleased to join senator roth as a sponsor of this bill to extend the trade adjustment assistance [taa) program. retroactively from december 19. 1985. this extension is necessary to january 2.9. 1986 january -29. 1986 co keep the program going until this congress completes action on the renewal of the taa program contained in our budget reconciliation measure. still in conference. furthermore the extension is necessary to case the plight of those unfortunate workers whose benefits were stopped midstream on december 19. 1985. because the congress failed to complete action renewing the program. i am also a cosponsor of the original proposal to restructure the taa program. which has already received the approval of house and senate conferees on the budget reconciliation bill. this program fulfills a commitment to americas workers who are dislocated due to our open markets. for the past 4 years america has. been flooded with bargain imports and its traditional exportsmachinery. chemicals. electronics. grainhave lost their price competitiveness. industry after industry has come to the congress seeking protection from imports. these industries. and their workers. assume that we have more to lose to open world trade than we have to benefit from it. open markets serve america in very tangible ways. unfettered trade gives consumers access to a greater variety of products at lower prices. trade forces domestic industries to adjust to changing techogy before they become hopelessly inefficient. perhaps most important. trade is the primary source of hope for the worlds poor and indebted. increasing their stake in a stable world ecoic order. trade adjustment assistance is an essential aspect of this open system. we have all had our complaints in the past about the taa program in this country because of the way it has been organized and administered. but i believe we all recognize the stake that workers have in our efforts to dismantle trade barriers. some workers. laid off because of competing imports. have reason to rejoice over cheap. high quality steel coming from korea. unemployed textile workers in rhode island. for example. hardly revel in the fact that american consumers are buying low cost high quality sweaters from hong kong in increasing numbers. this trade adjustment program can offset the sacrifice we impose on workers. fortunately we have come up with a program which stresses adjustment through retraining and  simply assistance through cash payments. this extension keeps the existing program going until we can put this new program into place. the revisied program is consistent with our current efforts to trim federal spending. in that the program would be funded through imposition of a very smallf fee on imports. which we want the gatt to endorse. permitting all gatt members to do the same. i feel very confident that our trading partners would also welcome the opportunity to put into place a good retraining program. creatively funded to reduce budgetary pressures. trade adjustment assistance programs provide an alternative policy to import restrictions as a temporary relief measure for workers. the cost of extending the program and the slight burden it places on imports are far less than the cost that consumers and the entire ecoy will suffer if we enact import protections for industries and workers which are suffering at the hands of foreign competition. we can afford to abandon our commitment to an open and liberal international trading system. but neither can we ige the plight of workers who are dislocated due to import competition. we certainly can ige the difficulties being experienced by those currently in the program whose benefits were terminated december 19 solely because of the congress failure to renew the program.
madam president. the thing i find distressing is that these three committees have constantly had more staff than the others. i think if we made a fair judgment in this body we would find that committee has a heavier load. as i mentioned before. than the finance committee. what do they deal with. they deal with all taxes. they deal with medicare. they deal with medicaid. they deal with social security. and. madam president. all trade matters. there is  a committee here that has a platter as full. as that. yet that committee. as i say. is half the size of these committees. i think this makes sense. i have confidence in the rules committee. in its chairman and in its ranking member. that they will be able to move around people from staff to staff when there is a surge in a particular committee. in 1986 we had the tax measure before the finance committee. this year we had the trade agreement with canada. this year we have possibly the trade agreement with mexico. the gatt coming before us. possibly a tax measure. as always there are struggles with medicare and medicaid. if that committee needs additional people then the rules committee could look at it. i have confidence in their fairness. they would say. well. i think you are right. . i think this is an eminently fair provision. i hope it will be adopted. frankly. i would like to see the managers of the bill adopt it. that is an offer.
. are without question hoable men. however. there are those who try to sully. if you will. by words and by innuendo. the service that each one of the members of this body performs. and we give our detractors grounds for attack when we pass this kind of legislation. on the other hand. if we shall be enlightened egh to remove ourselves from the benefits of our own legislation. then we create credibility as between politicians and the public. i have already indicated to my colleagues that questions are going to be asked. why this particular piece of legislation at this moment in time. i thought the purpose of the bill before us. the revenue act of 1971. basically was designed to stop inflation. so the dollar would be worth something. so it would stay in the pockets of the people. so it would get people back to work. which means a great deal to me. coming from a state with 10 percent unemployment. to go ahead and create a fair trade situation throughout the world. those are the purposes of the legislation to which this proposal has been tacked on.
 of the united world what is said in the constitution states. which was referred to the coiof the united states we both live by mittee on finance: and are willing to die for. that is what is important. to the congress of the united states: in accordance with section 203(b)(2) of the trade act of 1974 (19 u.s.c. 2253(b)(2)). i am writing to inform you of my decision today to direct the secretary of labor to develop a plan to utilize the job training and partnership act of 1982 to aid dislocated workers in the rubber footwear industry. at the request of the senate finance committee. the united states international trade commission (itc) instituted an investigation to determine whether increasing imports of rubber footwear were injuring the domestic rubber footwear industry. the itc found that rubber footwear imports are a substantial cause of serious injury. or threat thereof. to the domestic footwear industry. while the escape clause provisions of the trade act of 1974 require the itc to determine the question of whether a domestic industry has been seriously injured as a result of increased imports. i am charged with the responsibility of determining whether the provision of import relief to the domestic industry is in the national ecoic interest. after considering all relevant aspects of the case. including those set forth in section 202(c) of the trade act of 1974. i have determined that granting import relief would  be in the national ecoic interest. i believe my decision today will promote our national ecoic interest by encouraging an open. discriminatory and fair world ecoic system. a system in which jobs are created and prosperity grows through increased productivity and competitiveness in an open market. as my determination does  provide import relief to the industry. i am setting forth the reasons for my decision. first. import relief would place a costly and unjustifiable burden on u.s. consumers and the u.s. ecoy. the council of ecoic advisers estimates that the global quota remedy recommended by the itc would create between 13.000 to 22.000 jobs with an average annual wage of $14.000. however. the cost to consumers to create these jobs would be $26.300 per job. amounting to a total consumer cost which could be as high as $2.9 billion over the next 5 years. moreover. these jobs would  provide permanent employment and would be likely only to last during the 5year relief period. second. import relief would result in serious damage to u.s. trade in two ways. if the itc global remedy were imposed. u.s. trade would stand to suffer as much as $2.1 billion in trade damage either through compensatory tariff reductions or retaliatory actions by foreign suppliers. this would mean a loss of u.s. jobs and a reduction in u.s. exports. u.s. trade would also suffer because of the. adverse impact import relief would have on major foreign suppliers. such as brazil. who are heavily indebted and highly dependent on footwear exports. import relief would lessen the ability of these for&ptember 9. 1.985 eign footwear suppliers to import goods from the united states and thus cause an additional decline in u.s. exports. third. i do  believe that providing relief in this case would promote industry adjustment to increased import competition. while imports of rubber footwear have increased rapidly over the last 12 months. i believe that the industry has been and is in the process of successfully adjusting to increased import competition. an industry that was once characterized by many small firms with limited manufacturing capability. has  emerged as an industry led by larger. more efficient producers who have invested in state of the art manufacturing equipment. diversified into profitable retail operations. and filled out their product lines with imports to respond to rapidly changing consumer taste. in order to address the difficult problems faced by workers in the industry. i have directed the secretary of labor to work with state and local officials to develop a retraining and relocation assistance progran specifically designed to aid workers in therubber footwear industry. appropriate programs of the job training partnership act are to be used to the fullest extent possible under us. law.
. on tuesday. december 3. i introduced s. 4203. a bill designed to save americas consumers over $2 billion annually by repealing resale price maintenance laws. i was particularly pleased. then. to read in the december 1. 1974. issue of forbes magazine an article entitled. "fair trade: how fair." the subtitle of the article is even more revealing: it seems a real anachronism in the midst of a struggle against inflation. thus. forbes magazine joins consumers reports and many others in voicing their belief that the time has come to end fair trade practices. i can think of few actions within our power to take that would have a greater and more immediate effect on reducing inflation than prompt passage of s. 4203. i commend forbes magazine for their thoughtful presentation and ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
and i repudiate any suggestion that it is because we consider these piddling amounts that we want to send this back to conference. i wish to repudiate any suggestion that we are  interested in ecoy or do  have concern for the balance of payments or anything else involving our fiscal situation.
it will be ed that i emphasized the areas of mutuality of interest between the ecoy of the united states and the ecoies of the members of the council of europe. a list of which i also offered. i pointed out in effect that the united states  needs the help of europe just as europe needed the help of the united states immediately after world war ii. we need the help of our european partners in any personal sense. but to expand world trade so essential to us allfor the absolutely essential increase in aid to the less developed areas of the free world and for cooperative action to deal with particular problems of the less developed areas troubled by radical price swings in their primary commodities. the reception which i received from the parliamentarians was a splendid one. most cordial and most reassuring in terms of the subjects which i had raised. i might tell my colleagues at this point that one of the questions raised with me by the parliamentarians of the council of europe was whether or  the united states would act as an intermediary in an effort to settle matters between the inner six. and the outer seven. in that regard i pointed out that i believed that u.s. opinion would take the position it took in marshall plan days: that the solution which was called for had to be a european solution and that the best role for the united states was in helping to implement and facilitate a solution which europeans themselves had arrived at. this was received with approval by the overwhelming majority of parliamentarians present. i  address myself to the problems of the inner six. and the outer seven. the liberalization of trade is a particular issue between the inner six and the outer seven. it  becomes clear that the concept of a possible federation of some character in political terms was a big factor in the arrangements for the european ecoic community. under these circumstances. it becomes more evident that the outer seven countries could  feasibly join with the inner six in an organization which had such a fundamental aspiration. the outer seven have common ecoic interest with the inner six. but because of traditional ties. like those of the scandinavian countries--way. sweden. and denmarkthe particular neutral situation imposed upon austria by treaty. or upon switzerland by history and tradition. or the commonwealth ties of the united kingdom. a political federation for the outer seven does  seem to be. at this point. at least. a likely objective. accordinglyand this is most important. it is  being recognized in europe that the twc groupings are more logical than wac originally supposed. this is being recognized in europe. as i i have said. and will form one of the fundamental bases for bringing about i some settlement. also. it dispels a perfectly human reaction which was first ed when the outer seven did  join the inner six in the european ecoic community. that the outer seven had made their bed and that they had  better lie in it. i am very glad to say that this attitude is being dispelled in europe in recognition of the fact that there is a full role to be played by both of these entities. and that there are very persuasive reasons why. at least at this point. it is just as well that they are organized in two separate groupings. aher matter which arose and which may be of interest to senators in regard to these two groups was the feeling. especially on the part of our british friends. that certainly 2 groups are better than 13 groups. with their international barriers and problems which were imposed. already major progress was being made in that regard. in that there were  2 groupings. between them aggregating such emous entities. in ecoic terms. instead of 13 diverse. relatively small ecoies which were in existence before. to give an idea as to what is involved. i believe it is important to analyze some of the figures. the u.s. ecoys gross national product is somewhere in the neighborhood of $485 billion. with a population of about 175 million. the european common market community has an estimated population. if my memory serves me correctly. of 170 million. it has a gross national product of somewhere in the area of $160 billion. on the other hand. the outer seven. socalled. or the european free trade association grouping. has a population of about 80 or 85 million. with a gross national product of about $88 billion. it can be seen that the relationship between the two groupings and the ecoic power of the united states are becoming nearly comparable. as they are grouped ecoically. rather than was true before. it is also evident that together these three ecoic groupings. the united states. the european common market. and the free trade association community. represent the overwhelming ecoic and productive power of the whole world. even including the soviet union. certainly overwhelmingly the productive power of the free world. i believe it is very important for all senators to understand these factors. because we are dealing with an emous aggregation of ecoic strength which will literally determine whether or  freedom shall survive. if we agree that the hallmark of the 1960s in this struggle will be ecoics. it becomes increasingly important in this whole area to realize that we are dealing with the very stuff of which the survival of the whole free world is made.
. i call to the attention of my colleagues a speech delivered before the southern research institute at birmingham. ala.. by henry ford ii. it is entitled simply "foreign competition." but within the scope of this subject. the speech deals with the basic structure of united states foreign ecoic policy and its relation to the domestic ecoic scene. in the end. the success of our leadership of the free world and the health and vigor of our domestic ecoy depend on the ability of the united states to compete in world markets and to compete for investment opportunities. especially in the developing areas where we must establish a basic demand for industrial and agricultural goods. i believe that mr. fords impressive statement of the problems and opportunities we face. provides the perspective within which the members of congress can give consideration to legislation for trade adjustment assistance. export promotion. productivity councils. and to other measures designed to further this nations ecoic growth. the course we must take is clear. we must expand our foreign trade contract it. this means that first. we must increase our productivity through tax incentives. labormanagement cooperation at the local. industrywide and national levels. and programs which will assist workers. businesses. and communities adversely affected by imports. second. we must stimulate private u.s. investment in the less developed areas. in the full realization of the fact that during the past decade the u.s. balance of payments benefited by the return of $8 billion more in profits from oversea investments than was newly invested by the united states. furthermore. investment is the principal means of establishing a market in the newly emerging nations. third. we must augment and expand the export services provided by the government and make the u.s. businessman aware of the opportunities residing in the growing export markets. and fourth. we must enlist private industry in a cooperative effort with government in technical assistance and other foreign ecoic policy programs so that we may use to the fullest our vast reservoir of ecoic strength. there are several bills. introduced during this session of the congress. designed to carry out some of these needed efforts. therefore. i ask unanimous consent to have the text of mr. fords address printed in the record.
madam president. i send to the desk and ask unanimous consent that out of order. it may be referred at this time. a bill which i call the national trade policy act of 1962. also i ask unanimous consent to be inserted at the end of my remarks. an analysis of the bill. showing the differences between my bill and the administration bill. also a supplementary statement showing a comparison between the tax relief provisions in the adjustment assistance sections of h.r. 9900. the administration bill. and my bill. madam president. the bill is a very inclusive bill. as members of the senate will e when they peruse it. it is an alternative to the presidents program. i consider it to be a feasible and a more effective alternative. which. it seems to me. is better calculated to realize the trade expansion objectives of the president. certainly it should be considered. so that those who favor the presidents program can formulate the best means of implementing it. others are working on this program in the same spirit. for example. a subcommittee on ecoic policy of the atlantic community of the ced. under the chairmanship of dr. emilio collado. is just  considering this question and their ideas should be most sympathetically received. the administration. with its great resources of factual material. has been emphasizing to the congress and to the people of the united states the great stake we all have in international trade. i should like to point out that it is important  only to the nation as a whole. but is vitally important also to the individual states. for example. my own state of new york exports nearly $1.5 billion worth of goods annually. leading the nation in the export of manufactures. it also should be borne in mind that some 20 million american workers depend for their livelihood on our ability to export and import. about 15 million of them on the importation of products which are processed by our industrial machine. thousands of businesses count on our $20 billion annual exports to provide the margin of profit for their operations. all of our 185 million potential consumers must look to imports which are earned through exports for help in getting. through competition which imports engender. a greater choice in price and quality of the goods they need. furthermore. the $35 billion of our annual trade furnish the toughest. strongest ties. ecoic and political. we as a nation have with the rest of the free world. as the free world ecoy expands. these ties must grow accordingly. lest they lose their ability to bind us together in carrying out the common purposes of freedom. it is highly significant that during the past decade. while trade in the free world more than doubled. u.s. trade increased by only 75 percenta weakening of our participation in the expansion of the free worlds ecoy which was accompanied during the last years by sizable balanceofpayments deficits and a potentially serious drain on our gold reserves. continued operation of our ecoy on the increasingly false assumption that there is strong competition for our products in the world has contributed to a u.s. rate of productivity growth about onehalf as high as the growth rates of our strongest competitorsthough we remain far ahead in total production. and. since 1954. we have seen a threefold increase of trade between the communist bloc and the newly developing nations of the free world. while our trade with these free world nations has hardly grown at all. the nature of the challenges and the opportunities is being presented to the nation. we are properly engaged in a great debate on how best to meet these challenges and opportunities in the national interest and in the interest of our ideals of freedom. i stand firm in the conviction that we must meet them through a major expansion in trade. i join the president in his determination to bring about the implementation of this idea. however. i believe that some of the major provisions of the administrations trade bill are misdirected. i should like to present. for the consideration of the congress. my approach. first. we must  be solely confined to the itembyitem or commodity concept of world trade. although the president does attempt this in his general approach. he ties himself to current levels of commodity trade in negotiations with the european ecoic community. and he encumbers his bill with itembyitem consideration of proposed trade concessions and with intricate exceptions for agricultural and for tropical commodities. furthermore. he runs the danger of excluding some of our best trading partners. including canada. australia. and other developed nations. which take some $4 billion of our exports annually. from the full benefits of largescale trade negotiations. to be conducted only with the eec. the present members of which took comparatively less3.5 billio our exports last year. i believe that we must also deal with the basic and longrange problems of world trade which reside in the relative productivity of nations. reliance on current commodity prices to provide the basis for a trade policy for the future. exposes the free world to the possibility of sudden. discriminatory reversals in trade liberalization. complete removal of trade barriers on categories of items like electronic components. which would include radio apparatus and parts. on chemicals. which would include fertilizers. and on other categories. which would include rubber footwear. certain glass. clay. steel mill. aluminum. paper. and textile products. could induce the developing nations to concentrate their limited capital resources in such lines of production. even the developing nations have the capacity to produce efficiently and with low wage costs items in some of the lines which i have cited. in the expectation of earning foreign exchange they could seriously affect the markets of developed nations on a small but concentrated number of items. perhaps forcing the reimposition of import restrictions and effecting a setback in the ecoic development prospects of the developing nations. it is therefore my view that while we should seek to engage in the fullest possible competition with nations having ecoies complementary to our own. we must also seek to provide stable and expanding markets for the developing free world ecoies so that they may raise their earning power and begin to close the productivity gap. my bill proposes to accomplish this purpose by directing the president to use his negotiating authority with the developed nations to open up their markets on an equitable basis to the products of the newly developing and of the lowcost producing industrialized areas: latin america. africa. the middle east. south and southeast asia. japan. hong kong. and others. this would result in a greater contribution by the fully developed nations of europe to the ecoic development of newly developed nations through trade. and spread the trade of lowcost producing industrialized nations. thereby relieving the united states of a part of the heavy responsibility it has carried since the end of world war ii. second. the congress must participate in the broad direction of foreign trade policy and must be able to make its will effective. although the presidents bill would provide for reports and messages on the trade agreements program to keep the congress informed. neither effective direction  control by the congress is envisaged. after the basic authority is granted. i can see any avoiding of the congressional retention of a veto power over the results of negotiations. as well as a veto power on what is done with the other specific authorities given to the president. my bill would provide for congressional policy directions in the utilization of presidential negotiating authority and for congressional veto power over the most important phases of the exercise of presidential authority: (a) trade agreements. (b) national security proclamations. (c) escape clause actions. and (d) adjustment assistance administration. a veto power is  contained in the reciprocal trade act. which will expire in june. i propose that congress extend it to the other major grants of authority to the president in the trade program. the third item which requires attention. the third reason for introducing alternative legislation. is that the united states must take the leadership in forging a unified freeworld trading policy toward the soviet bloc. madam president. i have returned fairly recently from the soviet union and have also made a report on this subject in the senate. one of the marked things which stand out is the soviet success in playing off major industrial nations against one aher. it is aalous that the communist bloc does hundreds of millions of dollars worth of business with the german federal republic and the united kingdom. and others of our allies. but far less than $100 million worth of business a year with the united states. that is because we exercise an infinitely greater amount of selfrestraint in our dealings. it may very well mean that we or they must escalate down and they up. but certainly the time has come for a unified policy with our allies on such trade. i believe the authority for increased trade negotiations with our allies gives us the best opportunity to shape such a policy. hence i include in my bill a directive to the president to that effect. although the presidents bill proposes to continue the exclusion of communist dominated nations from unconditional most favored nation treatment. it does  provide for positive leadership action. i do  believe that a negative policy is egh to counter the divisive and politically oriented ecoic strategy of the communists. my bill expresses the sense of the congress that the president should utilize his authority to enter into trade agreements. in order to negotiate with our allies for the formulation of a treaty which would unify our trading policies with the communist bloc. adherence to such a treaty should be open to other free world nations. such a treaty should provide for effective multilateral and bilateral controls on the shipment of strategic goods and on the extension of export credits. it should open up alternative marketing and purchasing opportunities for free world nations injured by communist bloc ecoic policies. it should contain contingency plans and measures. and common proposals for and means to enforce specific rules of behavior in trade with the communist bloc. these are the three broad areas in which my bill differs from that of the administration. and offers what i call a feasible alternative. i repeat that this is  a matter of antagonism to the presidents purposes on trade. i fully intend to join with the president in the trade expansion purpose. my bill is an effort to give us. perhaps. a better way in which the purposes may be realized. with special attention being paid to other critical items which i have described. one being the need to open european marketsfar more than is  the caseto the products of newly developing areas. as well as the products of industrialized lowcost producing areas. second. participation by congress in trade policy through the exercise of specific directions and the right to exercise veto power. third. the need for a unified policy on free world trade with the communist bloc. all of these items are contained in my bill. in summary. i believe the united states must have the power to take truly new measures in the field of trade. that the president must have the negotiating authority to carry out such measures. and that congress must share as an effective partner in the direction and control over such measures. in this way. the nation can meet the historic challenges and opportunities of our time. i have introduced my bill with that in mind. during the coming weeks. i expect to address the senate on the various issues involved in these two different approachesmine and the administrationsto the goal of trade expansion. i have already summarized the principal features of the approach of my bill. for the study of senators. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at the conclusion of my remarks a comparison of the major portions of the administration bill with mine. and a supplementary comparison of certain tax relief provisions in both bills.
according to frequently repeated official statements. the soviet bloc countries trade among themselves on the basis of worldthat is. capitalistprices. the internal price systems of the communist countries are too arbitrary and inconsistent to be useful for commodity exchanges across the frontier. however. these world prices are. according to official explanations. adjusted. by some unkn authority within the bloc. to exclude the influence of capitalist speculative practices. this adjustment. presumably made by the soviet ministry of foreign trade. opens wide the door to arbitrary action on the part of the stronger partner in the intrabloc exchanges. the results of such discriminatory action are probably reflected only in part in the published statistical returns of the u.s.s.r.. analyzed by . before inserting excerpts from this analysis. i should like to express the hope that the amendments to the antidumping act embodied in s. 3284 will receive serious and early consideration from the congress and from the executive departments and agencies concerned. it is my understanding that the senate committee on finance has requested reports on this bill from the departments of state. treasury. and commerce. and from the bureau of the budget and the tariff commission. i hope that these reports can be submitted at the earliest possible time so that hearings may be held after the committee on finance completes its work on the priority legislation still before it. i k the finance committee is very busy. but this measure could be disposed of after a brief hearing. and it is a measure of great importance to the nationat least as important in ecoic terms. in my judgment. as the bill the senate is considering today. exhmi3t 1
i thank the senator for his contribution. even before we can submit our payments problem. as the senator from iowa and i are proposing. to such a world forum. we must take effective domestic steps dealing with our balanceofpayments situation consistent with our role as banker of the world. so i suggest a series of steps on that score. as follows: first. i think we need an ad hoe committee appointed by the president and charged with the responsibility to correlate our domestic ecoic policy with our international ecoic policies imposed on us by our responsibility as bankers of the world and to establish priorities in that regard. it might conceivably be an intercabinet committee. it might be a joint committee of cabinet members and distinguished governmental members. i believe that we need to have a total look at our international payments situation and our domestic ecoic policies. together. with a recommendation by such a committee of the priorities which need to be established in order to deal with our international balanceofpayments problem. second. i believe that there is a serious weakness in our export promotion system. we have an export surplus of $4 billion to $5 billion on an aggregate foreign trade of roughly $35 to $40 billion. therefore. roughly. we have a 10 percent surplus of exports over imports. mally. one would say that is fine. however. in our situation. considering the responsibilities we carry. it is  egh. in view of the fact that a relatively small proportion of american business participates in exports. and in view of the fact that we are underutilizing our industrial plant. it seems to me that one of the prime domestic needs with which we are confronted is to step up our exports. so i urge the administration to give serious consideration to devising a system of tax credits and other direct incentives to our exporters and to accelerate our exports. also we must take into consideration measures through which material increases in our exports could be brought about rapidly. including the broadening of our present investment guarantee system directed toward the less developed. friendly countries. and the possibilities of added credits for goods and services acquired in the united states and needed to accelerate the development of underdeveloped countries. when american companies. invest abroad in less developed areas. when it is possible to extend longer term credits in underdeveloped areas. we open new markets for exports. therefore. on the one hand we should accelerate the desire of the american producers to export by extending direct tax incentives. and. on the other hand. we should try to expand markets for our exporters by the improvement of our investment guarantee system in newly developing areas. and by materially expanding the credit base upon which they may draw. i was saying the other dayand i wish to make this statement parenthetically in my speech todaythat we hear a great deal about the instability of countries in africa and latin america and asia. however. there are many countries there which are very stable and which have almost limitless opportunities for investment and developments. countries which come immediately to my mind in that regard. and about which there is argument in this respect. are countries like nigeria in africa. and the philippines in the pacific. and in latin america. a number of nations like mexico. colomba. peru. chile. argentina. and venezuela are on the threshold or actually have arrived at a point where there can be question about the stability of their institutions and the accessibility of those countries for rapid investment in trade expansion programs. secretary dillon. in a letter dated july 5. informed me that he was against granting specific tax incentives to exporters. he said he did  feel it advisable to propose a substantial modification in our tax system which would be required as an effective incentive. as he felt it would conflict with our gatt obligations. instead. he informed me that the u.s. government is taking a firm stand against the proliferation of special export tax incentives by ourwestern european trade competitors. such incentives exist in the countries which have enjoyed a major expansion in their exports. which in turn has indirectly brought about our present balanceofpayments situation. i believe that the outright rejection of a tax incentive to exporters may prove to be unwise. those of us following the export promotion activities of the federal government over the past 2 years have felt for sometime that a direct incentive tied to improved performancesuch as a tax creditwas needed to put teeth into the drive to increase our exports to a sufficiently high level to offset our international balanceofpayments deficit. our competitors in europe have  hesitated to give such advantages to their exporters. we should recognize that we are tying our own hands by reason of our gatt obligations and are thereby giving a permanent advantage to our european competitors. there is logical reason why waiver by their home governments of the valueadded tax on the exports of our european competitors should be considered consistent with gatt. while waiver of u.s. income taxes. other than the federal excise tax. should -be viewed as an export subsidy and therefore illegal under gatt. i believe that it is unrealistic to expect that the europeans could be induced to abandon their own tax incentive for exports. it is legal under gatt. and it works to their advantage. instead. the united states should go ahead  and devise its own system of tax credit for needed exports in order to remove this competitive disadvantage to our exporters. the question of the legality of various export incentives under gatt should be dealt with either through a revision of existing rules. which would recognize realities. permitting a variety of such incentives. or by restricting all such incentives. direct or indirect. on the part of ourselves and of our european competitors. at a gatt conference called for this purpose. in that case we would  suffer competitively as we do . therefore. i urge the extension of incentives to our exporters and an expansion of our export markets through an improved investment guarantee program. which we are able to bring about. third. we must do all we can to maintain competition in world markets by maintaining wage and price stability. so far we have done a pretty good job. our people have shown good discipline. with some problemsas. for example. in the building construction field. on the whole. our record has  been too bad. fourth. the president should reexamine our policy with respect to the unrestricted expenditures by our tourists. which totalled $21/2 billion in 1962. we showed a net tourist deficit of $1.400 million in the same year. which is more than half the imbalance in our international payments. one wishes to restrict travel. at the same time i believe that the president should make recommendations to congress as to these expenditures. we should also lodge strenuous protests in the international monetary fund. in gatt. and in the oecd against the continued restrictions which are placed by a number of european and latin american countries. as well as far eastern countries. on the sale of dollar exchange to their nationals for travel purposes. let us understand the situation. at the present we place restrictions whatever on our tourists. unless you regard the lowering of the dutyfree treatment of goods brought into this country by our own returning tourists as a restriction. we have a right to continue  to place any restrictionsand of course we may have to place. such restrictionsbut we should at least insist that european and latin american and far eastern countries. which can afford it. should  place restrictions upon dollar expenditures of their tourists in our country. while in the case of developing countries with shortages of convertible foreign exchange such restrictions are understandable. they should be removed by all other countries that do  have such a difficulty. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a letter dated june 18. 1963. from the treasury department and a letter dated july 9. 1963. from the department of commerce. which relate to these restrictions and state what could very readily be done by a number of countries about them. and what we are doing at the present time to close the gap between the expenditures of our tourists overseas and our income resulting from foreign tourist expenditure in the united states.
 in the purpose of export expansion and coordination of government agencies charged with it. by passing the bill the interagency committee provided for could have staff and might be given other authority it would  have by executive order. it might even qualify for an independent appropriation. i believe this matter is of such importance that it would be a mistake to sink the committee into the departmental budget of some department like the department of commerce. i hope very much that. withstanding the issuance of the executive order. the administration will etheless support the bill and give such an important committee as this a statutory basis for being.
fortunately.  could expand u.s. exports for dollars significantly. or prevent a drastic decline in such exports. by suspending or increasing meat import quotas. this would be in the overriding national ecoic interest. if a balanceofpayments deficit were to threaten u.s. fiscal integrity. and if the situation could be materially improved by suspending or increasing quotas. this would be in the overriding national ecoic interest. speaking directly of agriculture. if other importing countries were in retaliation prepared to adopt tight restrictions covering a wide range of u.s. agricultural export products. and if the effect would be to reduce u.s. agricultural exports in an amount disproportionate to gains to the cattle industry. the overriding national ecoic interest might be served by suspending or increasing quotas. i i believe that we who are on this side of the question have -a right. to emphasize. first. that the united states has a serious deficit in its international payments. and that the biggest plus factor in our balance of payments is the very favorable balance of trade which needs to be encouraged on our part. it is important to keep that balance of trade very strongly in our favor. in every line and in every country. including the countries which sell beef to us. that includes very significantly australia. new zealand. and afgentinawhich. as we k. is in quite a delicate political situation. the difficulty with the bill. in addition to the points which i have already made. is that it is essentially a standby protectionist measure. for a country whose ecoic well being is so greatly affected by exports. even a standby protectionist measure is unwise and very impolitic. we must remember. too. that this bill sets a pattern which many others may follow. and so the protestand that is all that i am making. is a protest of critical importanceis to let special interests in the country k that some states are alert to what is afoot. and intend to oppose it. there are shifting coalitions in the senate. i may have been defeated in the vote on this bill by a vote of 70 to 16. but if the protest is continued and the reasons are elucidated. perhaps we shall win on aher occasion. on aher day. and fend off some protectionist measure which would be again very harmful to the american export and import business. as to the consumer. one thing which is very important is that the meats which are imported and upon which this bill was intended to operate generally go into the cheaper items of consumption. they go into hamburgers. they go into frankfurters. et cetera. it is one of the powerful aspects of the american ecoy that the individual consumer has such awide range of choice in terms of his consumption and can get such a plentiful diet for a relatively reasonable part of his income that it will encourage him to buy other things which are so critically important in the american ecoy. it is the duty of those who are deeply interested in maintaining the production of industrial goods at a high level to maintain them in that manner. hence. i am sure many others. like me. have an interest in reducing the cost of livingespecially representing those in the low and moderate income group who consume so many of the less expensive items affected by this billinsuring that they may have a reasonable price level maintained for them. unaffected by the artificialities which would be introduced if quotas were imposed. as proposed in the bill. in summaryand i invite the attention of the senator from montana to what i shall say. i hope the senator will understand that what i said a while ago was in way directed at him. it is mal for a senator who seeks recognition for a while and does  get it to have the feeling that the game is going strictly one way. and that in all fairness the opposition ought to have its day in court at a seasonable time. when there are perhaps a few people around to listen.
. on the simplistic world theory which we just heard. it would pay. i assume. to terminate all american exports in order that we would  have to take the imports. that same rule would apply to the importation of shoes in the united states. let us  take any more imports. let us forget the exports and have the maximum number of jobs in the shoe industry. it does seem to me. however. that i hear a few whisperings from other places in the united states which think the export business is a pretty good business. let us remember that we can have it all our own way in this world and advocate this under the color of an ecoic argument which. to my judgment. is  very relevant.
 wilson quickly secured the passage of legislation revising our highly restrictive tariff structure and in his second term harassment of our shipping contributed to the american entrance into the first world war. the next major signpost in our trade history occurred in 1922 when the congress. reacting to some unfavorable ecoic conditions at home. passed restrictive tariff legislation. the error in passing this restrictive tariff act was compounded by the passage of the infamous smoothawley tariff in 1930. this bill passed the house in may 1929. and senate consideration of the bill was well underway when the stock market crashed in october. the arguments which carried the day. and we hear echoes of these arguments even today. was that higher tariffs. by keeping out foreign goods. would create more jobs for workers and bigger profits for industry. the warning of other countries that they would retaliate went unheeded and as they retaliated international trade. production. and employment sharply declined. these factors deepened and prolonged the great depression of the 1930s. between 1929 and 1933. the value of u.s. exports fell by almost 70 percent and the u.s. share of world exports fell from 16 percent in 1929 to 11 in 1933 and unemployment approached the 16 million mark. to conclude this necessarily brief historical summarythe modern era of our trade relations began with cordell hulls reciprocal trade agreements program which resulted from the passage of the trade relations began with cordell hulls of these policies in this act carry over until the present day. generally. these bipartisan outwardlooking trade and tariff programs contributed to the emous growth and prosperity of our nation and of the international ecoic-. system over the past 40 years. the passage of the trade bill yesterday will allow the united states to build on this foundation and equip us with the tools with which to reform the structure and to meet the new trade problems and challenges of today. we need to establish a framework  within which we can seek mutually beneficial solutions which take into account the changes which have taken place and the probability that new developments will occur at a rapid rate. without these negotiations. it is my feeling that the world could take a step toward possibly destructive bilateral ecoic relations and increasing bilateral disputes. such disputes probably would  be limited to nations. but would extend to defensive regional blocs. there is growing evidence that beggarthyneighbor policies are already increasingly attractive. on the other hand. multilateral trade negotiations which will commence upon passage of the trade reform act would establish an ongoing forum allowing for giveandtake negotiations on the key trade disputes between nations. the trade negotiations in turn would tie into the tremendous range of issues being negotiated in different forums. there is an interdependence in all these negotiations and negotiations leading to an improved system to manage trade will play an important part in the overall movement away from confrontation and toward an era of negotiation. let me turn  from the historical perspective and treat two major themes. the first theme is the importance of trade to our domestic ecoy and to american jobs. the second theme is the importance of trade to our foreign policy. in 1973. the last full year in which figures are available. u.s. exports and imports accounted for $140 billion. in the first 9 months of this year. our twoway trade reached $144 billion with imports running $3 billion ahead of exports. this flow of goods is of emous importance to our ecoy. this reemerging trade deficit has received much attentionand it is a matter of concernbut press analysis has seldom gone into the composition of our imports. of every $500 worth of imports approximately $200 are natural resources or products of natural resources which are in limited supply in the united states. included in this group would be petroleum. minerals. metal ores. forestry products such as lumber and wood pulp and fertilizers. if coffee. sugar. and cocoa are added to the list of natural resourcebased imports. our total imports of such products would be $29 billion in the first 9 months of 1974 out of total imports of $73 billion. these imports then are products necessary for the functioning of our ecoy and without them our ecoy and our diet would be poorer. our ecoy presently can run without substantial amounts of imported petroleum and imports of petroleum and petroleum products totaled some $17 billion in the first 9 months of this year. the unacceptable high price of these petroleum imports are causing our ecoy and the world ecoy serious problemsbut our only shortterm alternative is to reduce consumption. selfsufficiency is a long way down the road. imports of other manufactured products also serve as a brake on inflationary pressures and expand the choices available to consumer. turning to our exports. let me point out that our trade balance in techogically intensive goods grew from $10.6 billion in all of 1973 to $13.2 billion in the first 9 months of this year. there are jobs in these statistics and jobs are involved in all our export activities. as we consider trade legislation then. let us reflect on job creation as well as upon the wellpublicized job losses due to imports. in my judgment. the balance in terms of jobs is highly favorable. but consideration must be given to those who are adversely affected by trade. the trade reform act makes provision for a meaningful adjustment assistance program. as well as provide for the authority to impose duties and quotas on imports that are injuring domestic industries. i have consistently advocated adequate adjustment assistance programs and concur with the complaint of organized labor that the adjustment assistance programs of the trade expansion act of 1962 often provided only burial insurance 6 years after the funeral. also. much greater responsibility to their employees should be taken by companies shifting production abroad than they assume . a second major reason for the trade bill is its relationship to the intricate web of political. security. and ecoic ties binding the nations of the world together. solutions to major ecoic problems and the building of cooperation and detente will be furthered by trade negotiations. the various aspects of our foreign policy are as interdependent as the world they address. the very important progress toward a sharing of international responsibility for the wellbeing of the world ecoy and for maintenance of a stable peace will be enhanced if the united states participates constructively in multilateral trade negotiations and takes advantage of authority in the bill to deal with special interests relating to developing and communist countries. our relations with europe. canada. and japanwhose cooperation is necessary to deal with major problems of food and energy. to build an improved international monetary system. and to maintain a strong system of securitywill benefit from negotiations to resolve present trade issues and to find new ways of resolving those which will inevitably arise from time to time. and american labor. business. and consumers will benefit from the expanded trade which will result. relations with developing countries. on which we are increasingly reliant for raw materials and other commodities. will be enhanced if we meet our commitment to provide generalized tariff preferences and avoid encumbering them with highly objectionable restrictions. and our ecoy will gain from the contribution which preferences can make to the prosperity and market growth of these nations. our policy of detente will be furtheredand with prospects for cooperation in troubled areas of the worldif we have the necessary authority to negotiate mostfavorednation arrangements. and we will benefit from the potential trade opportunities which will accrue from improved ecoic ties with communist countries. many nations have worked hard over the past 2 years to bring about multilateral trade negotiations. in large part. this was in response to a strong american desire for an improved international trading system. a desire voiced by both the executive branch and the congress. the prospects  look good but we should still remember that failure finally to enact the trade bill would be seen as a major reversal of the earlier american desire to cooperate internationally. and as evidence of lack of american credibility. faced with this reversal. other countries would be less able to hold off protectionist pressures. the argument that countries should forego unilateral actions because multilateral solutions could be achieved in trade negotiations would longer carry much weight. the consequences for the international trading system and for our ecoy would be tragic. trade conflicts would add a further destabilizing force in a world already suffering from the profound impact of other serious ecoic ills. and the spillover to political and security arrangements would further worsen the situation. we. among all nations. have the ability to play a constructive leadership role. if this trade billon which so much effort has been spentfails by any chance to become law. we will have lost an opportunity which we are unlikely to have again in the near future. a chance for majcr world ecoic progress will have passed us by. a chance to do what is necessaryto improve the international trade systemwill have been lost. the world will suffer. we will suffer. finally. i am particularly gratified that together with senator jackson and senator ribicoff. we have successfully proved that trade concessions to the soviet union can be equated with the human rights issue of soviet emigration policies. we have achieved a historically significant advance in this regard.
opic. over the years. has demonstrated that it has given a quality of aid which is most constructive. by teaching people how to help themselves. through exports of american techogy. one of the most fruitful exports in all the world. and through encouraging the kind of productivity and productive business which is good for the american ecoy and the ecoies of the developing countries. the arguments have been madeand there are "dear colleague" letters from a number of senators and senators church and case. who have indicated their opposition to this particular bill. an opposition which. by the way. has been traditional. and is based upon the fact. first. that opic does  represent an ecoic benefit to the united states. and second. that it helps essentially big companies. aside from the fact that we are very carefully orienting opic to small and medium business in this particular extension to the board is already resolved to concentrating on small business. which. i think. will go a long way toward helping in that regard. the fact is that we are continuing the guarantees of investment because we want the end product. to wit. development in the developing countries. in response to the argument that. "well. you are making guarantees for big companies." i say if those big companies are actually engaged in the desirable development process. in the interests of the united states. then we ought to be glad they are around to do it. and we should  be parochial and say. "well. we do  want to help in that process because it is being done by a major american company." as i emphasized. . this operation is  only selfsustaining. but makes a profit. may i point out. too. that there is a lot of competition. the united kingdom. germany. japan. and france all have agencies of this very kindproceeding. incidentally. on much more liberal concessional terms than we allow opic to proceedin order to help them develop their essential export business. the export business here is very. very high. it is estimated that 38.000 jobs are attributable to the business which is generated by the operations of the overseas private investment corporation. and i might say. ing the presence in the chamber of the senator from georgia
. the choice is ours. we can either undertake a program that will keep us in control of the foreign exchange situation or let the cumulative actions of the foreign exchange traders dictate our ecoic situation. for me. there is choice. the continued stability of the international monetary system requires that we develop a broad program to deal with the problem of the falling dollar. to do so. we need the support of the american people. who. if properly informed. will face the needed decisions. if we begin to meet the problem of the falling dollar with the antiinflationary program i have outlined above. we may well have a period of slower growth. even a mild recession for the next 2 years. if we. however. continue on the present path without budgetary restraints. we will have growth but with increasing rates of inflation. this will eventually force the federal reserve to raise interest rates. which could very quickly bring the ecoy to a screeching halt: a recession. if  a depression. with foreign exchange markets incapable of responding effectively because we failed to deal with the structural problem of the dollar overhang. a recession in the united states could quickly become international. ody wants the latter scenario to materialize. this is why the foreign exchange markets are highly unstable and the foreign exchange traders are nervous. they are looking for direction from the united states. we must understand that there is virtue to a continuation of this situation. ody benefits from this condition. especially the american people. i have presented today what i consider to be an action program which must be implemented in addition to our statements of concern if we are to avoid a serious calamity
