s proposal for a cabinetlevel department of urban affairs and housing was -before us. i was deeply troubled that the suggested reorganization plan did  meet the need for coordination in community programs. at that time. however. i stated thati stand ready to support the creation of an agency within the structure of the federal government which could administer or coordinate the plethora of federal programs which affect our cities. i think that this bill will  only provide a central reference point. but will give us an opportunity to think creatively about the multiplicity of problems that face our communities today. the bill authorizes a thorough study of the administration of federal programs with a view toward reallocating their functions for greater efficiency and recommending imaginative new approaches to specific problems. the central fact that creates the need for coordination in this field is that 70 percent of the american people today are living in urban places of various sizes. any community which has to handle problems of housing. expanding school population. increasing pressures on transportation facilities. and water and air pollution in the face of shrinking tax bases can benefit from coordinated research and planning. since i first started discussing this proposal with my colleagues and with my friends back home i have been impressed and heartened by the favorable response that an office of community development has received. the problems of our communities are growing more complex every day and every day that we postpone action the progress of our towns and cities is held back by the confusion and chaos in our urban programs. too often communities miss out on participation in federal programs that would be of tremendous benefit to them merely because they lack adequate information and guidance. i am particularly pleased that our distinguished colleague from new york. the ranking republican member of the government operations committee. has taken the lead in sponsoring this legislation. i hope that the committee will act promptly on the bill. i include a sectionbysection analysis of the bill in the record at this point:
secondly. the coordination which our proposal would permit would be achieved without any significant increase in bureaucracy. it would be accomplished with far greater efficiency and far greater ecoy. there are more than 60 programs administered by the federal establishments which deal with urban matters in one way or the other. it seems to us that it would be administratively impossible for a cabinetlevel department to coordinate programs already under the established jurisdiction of coequal cabinet departments. the office of community development which we propose would  discourage activities of the local communities or states but. rather. it will provide such local officials with significant points to work by. . i ask unanimous consent to insert at this point in the record a copy of the bill which we have today introduced. together with a sectionbysection analysis of that bill.
. i am pleased that the committee amended the bill as introduced to extend the highly promising guaranty program for oversea housing. both in latin america and in other areas of the world. this program. which was initiated by the congress 4 years ago. has developed into one of the best examples of assistance in the foreign aid program. financed through private investment rather than u.s. government funds. it serves as an excellent vehicle for private enterprise in this country to cooperate with private sectors in other areas of the world. it provides much needed housing on a selfliquidating basis. similar to our fha program in the united states and serves that segment of the ecoy which is  in need of subsidized housing through public housing institutions. on my trips to latin america. i have visited several of these programs and was impressed that they are providing a meaningful demonstration of the goals of cxi729 the alliance for progress. hing means more to people. in all parts of the world. than the ability to purchase and live in their own homes. the committee this year set aside $150 million from the authority under section 221(b) (2) of the act to continue that type of pilot or demonstration project that has been guaranteed under the program during its initial 4 years. prior to this year aid had set aside $50 million for guaranties outside latin america. this new setaside will provide an expanded program throughout the world and it is hoped that this program. slow in developing over this past year. can be put upon a firm basis this coming year. aid requested $100 million of guaranty authority for new types of categories to be guaranteed under the latin american program in section 224. the committee felt strongly that the program. as intended by congress and developed so successfully to date. should be continued and strengthened. therefore. the committee increased the authority available under section 224 by an additional $100 million above the aid request to continue to carry out the guaranty of privately sponsored pilot or demonstration projects similar to those insured by the fha. it is understood that this continuation of the program under section 224(b) (1) will be supported by  less than this additional $100 million. it is of the utmost importance that the housing guaranty program as created by congress be continued on its present basis. the new authority will provide an opportunity to experiment with other approaches to the guaranty program. but the program as  conductec should be continued.
i will say to the gentleman. if this bill proposed by the administration were in fact a cabinetlevel department for urban affairs and for urban development. perhaps the opposition for which i speak today would  be present. but the bill that the administration has brought before this body is  a bill to create a department of urban affairs. it is a bill which does little more than elevate those responsibilities  vested in the housing and home finance agency to cabinet status. i think the gentlemans own admission that the 30 or 40 or 50 other activities relating to urban affairs would  be touched by the administration bill is evidence of the validity of the position which i and my colleagues take.
. i am today introducing legislation to authorize fha insurance for the construction of seasonal homes. at a time when family use of second and vacation homes is increasing rapidly and when new housing starts are dropping off due to tight money. such legislation is badly needed. this bill has already received extensive consideration in the other body. it was included as title i of s. 3711 which passed on august 12. 1966. however. it was ruled  germane to the conference which considered the house substitute for s. 3711 because its provisions had  been included in the house bill. i would hope that. because of this previous attention to the matter. we can move forward promptly here in the 90th congress. under the terms of my bill. section 203 of the national housing act would be amended to authorize the secretary of housing and urban development to insure mortgages on singlefamily dwellings. whether or  designed for yearround occupancy. the mortgage. to be eligible. would  involve a principle obligation in excess of $15.000 and could  be in excess of 75 percent of the appraised value of the property. the secretary would be authorized to waive many of the requirements  considered essential for the insuring of mortgages in urban areas of high population density. but could insist that the development of the property is to be "consistent with the conservation of water and other natural resources of the area." this provision can help us avoid haphazard development of our remaining open spaces. in my judgment. this legislation provides us with an opportunity to stimulate a healthy development in our ecoy. i urge its prompt enactment.
. on april 12. under secretary of the department of housing and urban development. robert c. wood. addressed massachusetts gov. john a. volpes conference on community development in boston. he cited the gains we have made in dealing with our critical and complex urban problems and ed how many problems we have still to solve. particularly in the area of training competent city planning personnel. i include mr. woods speech in the body of the record at this point:
. on the eve of his introduction of the national home ownership act. senator charles h. percy. of illis. discussed the bill and the general problems of housing in -urban areas before the washington urban league. as a cosponsor of this legislation here in the house. i would like to include the senators remarks in the record for the attention of all members and senators. senator percys initiative and vision in developing this proposal deserves the gratitude of us all. he has shown us a way to end our reliance on outdated and uninspiring programs that have failed to solve the critical housing problem. i hope this bill will command strong support in both houses. on both sides of the aisle. the address follows:
. my close friend. philip n. brownstein. assistant secretary of the department of housing and urban development and the fha commissioner. is highly respected by many members of the house of representatives and the senate as a tireless and efficient crusader in meeting the housing goals of our country. mr. brownstein is retiring from federal service on the 21st. and we will miss his leadership and wise counsel. the lowincome families of our cities. particularly those in the older neighborhoods. are better housed today because of phil brownsteins efforts. he had done an outstanding job and has earned the gratitude of us all as a truly great public servant.
. modern america is ed for its techogical achievements. it leads the world in science. medicine. and production but it faces a serious dilemma in its failure to respond imaginatively to the real need of its citizens for better housing. the national housing goal of 2.6 million units a year for 10 years endorsed by congress in 1968 was based on the improvement of present houl.ing as well as on predictable increased population. yet the fact is that housing starts for 1969 are projected at merely 1.5 million units. in a recent sermon delivered in lexington. mass.. rev. john wells spoke of a proposal which he views as the hope for and challenge to americathe building of 100 new cities of 250.000 each over a 10year period. his proposal. which illustrates a deep concern for human values. is a challenge which our nation must seriously consider. we must recognize the tremendous potential our techogy offers in the solution of space. defense problems and must begin  to undertake the task. the exciting challenge offered. to build new cities and create new environments. reverend wells remarks were antecedent to the proposal made by the national committee on urban growth policy on may 25. this committee of very able men. with albert rains of alabama as chairman. has proposed 100 new cities of 100.000 each. and 10 even larger. to be built over the next 30 years. the dramatic concept of new communities incorporates the excitement of both the frontier and the techogy in solving one of our nations most pressing problems. the projected population of the united states in 1980. according to the census bureau. will be 243.800.000. this is an increase of nearly 38 million in the next 10 years. while we have the resources and the techogy to solve this problem. we lack the will. reverend wells understands this fact. and offers an imaginative and possible dream that i want to share with my colleagues. his sermon follows:
. i move the adoption of the amendment. it merely clarifies the bill as it  stands. i think a large majority of the members of the senate. indeed. probably all members of the senate desire at this time to. have the congress enact legislation which will enable the states individually to assume rent control if they so desire. and under the specifications set forth in the statute. however. i do - think it is our intention to force rent control on any state. contrary perhaps to the will of the state. or in any way to indicate that any state shall be obligated to assume rent control. this amendment is being offered to clarify that situation. under it. a state would be required to take positive. affirmative action before assuming rent control. as long as rent control still continues under the federal government.
. as we all k. the question of housing. particularly public housing. is one of the most serious  confronting the country. i do  think that new york state is in any way peculiar in the difficulties it has encountered in solving this problem. however. new york has been most fortunate in havlng as commissioner of housing one who is. i might say. preeminent in the field of housing. and who has been doing an outstanding job in that connection. his name is herman t. stichman. a few weeks ago. because of my personal interest in this matter. i wrote a letter to commissioner stichman requesting his ideas concerning the course that might appropriately be taken by the federal government in dealing with this question. he has replied and his answer is so illuminating. so pertinent and altogether so constructive in the suggestions which it contains that i request unanimous consent to have printed in the record my letter to commissioner stichman and his reply to me.
let me develop this thought. whether they are receiving their moneys worth or  has very little to do with the case. the fact remains that this is their home. if they are faced with a rental far beyond their means to pay. and find themselves virtually dispossessed for that reason. and finally forced out in the streets. it does  make much difference what they are receiving for their money. the fact remains they are receiving certain incomes. they indicated in their letter that with the incomes they receive they can afford to pay any more rent. if they are forced to leave their apartment they will have place to go. except into the street.
. i do  think the taking away of controls from socalled luxury accommodations would in any way guarantee that these two or three sisters. or howevery many there are in the group. would be able automatically in new york city to find a place to live. either on the day they were dispossessed. or within a week or a month. i k something about the apartment situation in new york city from personal experience at the present time. the matter of securing accommodations is  as simple as the senator seems to indicate. to be sure. some new apartment houses are being erected. a few. on which there is limitation or ceiling. presumably such an apartment could be obtained if the rent was  too high. but in most such cases the rents are. quite high.
before the senator from washington speaks on this amendment. i should like to point out that it applies to students probably more than to anyone else. i refer to students who are  in colleges or universities. and who have gone there after coming out of the armed servicesin other words. the exgis. the senate will recall that the congress has already enacted legislation increasing the subsistence allowance for such veterans. so it seems to me rather extraordinary that at this time we would. after increasing their subsistence allowance. eliminate all control over the housing accommodations which many of them occupy. this amendment keeps the situation in line for them. as well as for the others to whom the distinguished senator from connecticut has referred. i think we are thus requesting to have a wholly just provision replaced in the bill. for it was in last years act. so i trust that the amendment will be approved by the senate.
i gather from what the senator from washington has said regarding the fate of senate bill 866. to which he has been referring. that there is some chance that the passage of that bill will be jeopardized by the approval at this time of the 1year extension of title vi of the national housing act. which the senator from washington  proposes. in his amendment. would the senator from washington go so far as to admit that perhaps that would very likely be the fate of senate bill 866 if a 1year extension is granted in this instance.
i could  quite hear what the distinguished senator from illis said a moment ago. he may have said what i am going to inquire about. it is my impression. however. that the present housing act has elapsed at least twice heretofore. is that  correct.
i thank the senator. . as i understand it. the provisions of the substitute amendment are even better than those of the taftellenderwagner bill. aside from matters pertaining to slum clearance and public housing. the substance of the substitute bill in its present form is absolutely indispensable. so i am going to be realistic. and in order to help insure that we get some housing legislation. which is vitally needed and which we must have at this time. i propose to vote and intend to vote for this substitute bill.
 the senator from new york wishes to makevery clear that he is speaking only for himself. the senator from new york has  discussed this question with the gover of new york. either lately or at any other time . however. the senator from new york would point out that the record of the gover of new york on public housing and veterans legislation speaks for itself.
at this time i do  wish to go into a discussion of the position which i am very likely to take on the socalled wherry proposal. which is  before the senate for consideration. i do want to speak regarding the substitute proposal to the haydenwherry resolution. as offered by the able senator from oregon. it so happens that i personally favor cloture by what is termed a "constitutional majority". that is. 49. that is aher proposal  before the senate. which i understand has already been submitted by at least one member of the senate. we seem to have all kinds of proposals before us. we seem to have all kinds of attitudes regarding them. there are those who are opposed to any kind of cloture whatever. i assume. and who will be inclined to vote against any kind of cloture proposal which may be presented. there are others who will be opposed to the resolution that seems certain to come before usi am  talking about the amendment. i am talking about the wherry resolutionfor reasons which i think have been well presented by the able senator from oregon. they think it ties the matter up too tightly. they think the question of cloture can more easily be resolved at a later date during the eightyfirst congress if any. of the civilrights program which has been proposed can be passed in the senate. i may discuss the wherry resolution more fully later on. but at the present time it is  my plan to favor that kind of resolution. i do  think it is in every sense of the word a step forward. i admit it may be an improvement to the extent that under it cloture may be possible. or would be possible. in the matter of motions. but at the same time i would point out that cloture by a "constitutional twothirds." or 64. would thereby be applicable also to measures themselvesbillsand that definitely is  a step forward. that is a step in the opposite direction we might far better wait until later on when a more favorable opportunity may be presented for the consideration of something which more nearly will meet the desires of what i assume to be a substantial majority of the senate. as expressed in the haydenwherry resolution. i still think that resolution probably more nearly reflects the attitude and the opinion of more members of the senate than does any other proposal which may be before us. while i am on that subject. i want to point out that this attempt to resolve the problem has been brought about by a combination of circumstances. i do  join with those who would criticize what has been termed a coalition in the senate in order to propose the wherry resolution. although i do  favor it. they have every right to their ideas. and i do  join in criticizing them. but i think the condition which has forced us into this impasse in which we find ourselves. and by which the wherry resolution is  before us sponsored as it is. has been produced primarily by the dilatory tactics which have been carried on in this body in handling the matter. i do  say that those dilatory tactics should be any real excuse for the wherry resolution. but i think they are the ones that have produced it. instead of getting busy here at the start. as we should have been doing. and as was pointed out at one time or aher in the senate. by reporting a resolution out of the committee on rules and administration without delay. or at least with as bricf a delay as possible. we dillydallied. during the early part of january those who presumably are as anxious as anyone to resolve the question of civil rights were far more interested in celebrating an election than they were in resolving this question by taking care of the rules as they should have been taken care of at that time. we all k what has happened here since the haydenwherry resolution was favorably reported. one delay after aher. until finally we are faced as we are at the present time with the expiration of rent control and other pressing matters. so something has to be done or we must abandon the whole thing temporarily. again i say. . in view of that situation. i shall vote against the proposal offered by the able senator from oregon.
the junior senator from new york. in view of the facts the able senator from washington has brought into the discussion. would like to ask the senator from washington if it was  the intent and has  been continually the intent of the senate. at least during the past year. to begin to decontrol as quickly as such decontrol might be possible. in line with existing housing conditions. and that. as a beginning of that effort. decontrolling at the top rather than at the bottom was thought to be most desirable. and that this is the first direct effort along that line. is that correct.
then the junior senator from new york would like to raise the question with the senator from minnesota whether he does  think it would have been better to have fought that issue out to a conclusion when the housing bill was before the senate. as we could have done. invoking cloture. if cloture could have been obtained. to ascertain whether or  we could have had that issue settled then and there as was done in the senate.
the senator from new york would like to point out that hing in the procedure indicated by the senator would in any way. shape. or manner have prevented the housing program being finally passed by the senate. the most that could have occurred would have been a few days delay.
the senator from new york does  like to be interrupting the remarks of the able senator from minnesota. but he should make the situation clear. does  the senator from minnesota feel that on some of these questions. where the matter of segregation or the matter of discrimination is at stake. and where i might point out. it properly belongs. the matter should be fought to a final conclusion to ascertain exactly how the senate stands on these questions. the senator from vermont. by the question which he raised. seemed to indicate that had the antisegregation amendment prevailed we would have had housing legislation. the junior senator from new york would like to point out that had such a situation ever arisen we would  have been stopped in any way. shape. or manner from having a decent housing bill such as was actually passed. had we run into that condition. we could have abandoned the amendment and gone on ahead without it. but the test would have been made. we would have kn how we stood. the senator from new york feels very strongly that whenever any of these questions arise we should  slink away from them. we should  run away from them. but should face them headon.
the senator from new york has been listening with great interest to the discussion which has been going on in connection with this subject. the senator from new york is still in doubt as to the reason why. if conditions are as the able senator from wyoming indicates them to be. the housing expediter is laying off so many employees. closing so many offices. and decontrolling such a large area. has the senator from illis the answer to that question.
it occurs to the senator from new york that it is very probable that the housing expediter does  understand the agreement which presumably has been arrived at in congress regarding this question. he does  understand that he can go ahead in carrying out the rent control statute and expend whatever moneys may be necessary in line with the provisions of the statute. with the idea of having any deficit taken care of next january.. that may be the reason why he is trying to cut his pattern in line with the proposed appropriation. "
. i shall be as brief as possible. because i realize that in this particular instance the element of time is involved. i desire to point out that there are a number of matters which seem to me to be of overwhelming importance in the consideration of rentcontrol legislation with which we are  faced in this appropriation bill. i think the question raised last friday cleared up rather thoroughly one important point. and i k the distinguished senator from wyoming has in his possession a further communication on the subject verifying this statement. it is. that by stretch of the imagination can the congress. in any way. shape. or manner. agree. in anticipation of a budget deficit. that it will make up that deficit.  can it even condone in advance such a deficit. i think that was cleared up last week beyond the peradventure of a doubt. in connection with the appropriation for the housing expediter. under amendment 46. which was left finally at $17.500.000. it is obvious that. spaced evenly over a 12month period such an appropriation would be inadequate. at least at the present time. on a monthtomonth basis. the question. therefore. arises whether that should be left. or whether an attempt should be made to increase the amount by at least the $4.000.000plus by which the appropriation provided by the senate was reduced by the conferees. i am  referring to the $21.667.500. which was reduced by the conferees to $17.500.000. i realize the house is virtually  in session. i realize that. were we to take action of the kind i am indicating. we might reach an impasse in the congress which would make it virtually impossible. at least for the time being. to reach the goal we are trying to reach. which is to provide sufficient money for the proper administration of the rent control law. yet i am wondering. even though that situation might occur in the immediate future. whether such an attempt would  be worth while. after all is said and done. we have a rentcontrol law. and i am very sure every member of the congress who voted for it did so honestly. expecting it would be executed and that its provisions would be enforced. i am sure member of congress. either in the senate or in the house. would condone any procedure by which. through lack of appropriation. the intent. the purpose. the provisions of the law would be completely sabotaged insofar as their effect is concerned. the law thereby would prove futile and worthless. to appropriate inadequate funds is  a very good way to repeal laws or to amend them.  so long ago when the senate was considering aher appropriation bill it was proposed to reduce the appropriation for maritime training. regardless of "he merits or maritime trainingand i do  want to become extraneous in my remarksthe effect of such reduction would have been substantially to have eliminated maritime training in this country. that is  the proper way to legislate. if maritime training should be eliminated. we should pass a substantive law to eliminate it. or if it should be curtailed. a sufficient appropriation should be authorized to permit the program to proceed on a smaller scale. the same is true of rent control. if rent control is undesirable. if decontrol should be brought about more rapidly. then we should enact substantive legislation providing the machinery by which to do it. but the process which has been followed in this particular instance. and which as i see it leaves with the housing expediter almost choice at all. places the congress in a very unfortunate position. at this point i should like to read several editorials. they are  long. but i think they are of sufficient moment to deserve attention by members of the senate at this time. from saturdays new york times i read an editorial entitled "decontrol by subterfuge." as follows:
. the senator from new york never intended to convey the idea that congress could  make aher appropriation or any amount of appropriations any time it might see fit to do so. what the senator from new york was trying to emphasize was that the housing expediter can count with any definiteness on an appropriation if he follows that process.
it is very likely true that he does  k what his needs will be. but he does k the amount of money which he can use. because it is $17.560.000. if i were in the position of the housing expediter. with the warning he received in this chamber last friday aftern. which made quite an impression on me. i think i would cut the $17.500.000 into 12 parts and operate on that basis. the only way he could do otherwise would be in anticipation either that the demand for rent control is going to drop. which of course it may. or if it does  drop. that congress will appropriate more money. in either case he is taking a wild chance.
the senator from new york would like  to finish up for this side. and then the senator from wyoming will have something else to discuss. we have been hearing right along that the cost of the administration of rent control has been dropping. of course it has in certain areas. it has been pointed -out already here today that four states have decontrolled. at least so far as the federal government is concerned. but the fact remains that there are important areas where the cost is rising because of the type of act which we passed earlier this year. i  wish to read some figures regarding the new york city office of the housing expediter. this information was furnished by the general counsels office this morning by telephone. and it is rather illuminating as to the opposite direction the administration is taking when it comes to the need for funds. the statement shows the following facts: landlords petitions for adjustment filed: for 4 months prior to apr. 1. 1949 ----------------------12.473 for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 --------------------23.008 that is. up to the first of this month. i continue with the information furnished: landlords petitions processed: for 4 months prior to apr. 1. . 1949 ----------------------13.282 for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 -------------------- 14.385 landlords petitions pending: apr. 1. 1949 ------------------ 6. 619 aug. 1. 1949 --- 15. 170 then we come to the tenants. up to  i have been talking about the landlords. the property owners. they are the ones who are getting hit because of the action proposed to taken.  we come to the tenants petitions for adjustment which were filed: tenants petitions for adjustment filed: for 4 months prior to apr. 1. 1949 -----------------------9.444 for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 --------------------14.694 tenants petitions processed: for 4 months prior to apr. 1. 1949 -----------------------8.674 for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 --------------------12.521 tenants petitions pending: apr. 1. 1949 ------------------. 4.199 aug. 1. 1949 ------------------6.372 i  come to aher new feature which did  exist prior to the present rentcontrol law. namely. the eviction ices. i continue with the information furnished by the general counsels office: eviction ices issued for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 ------- 19.214 comparable figures are available for the 4 months prior to april 1 because there was provision in the old law that permitted the housing expediter to issue eviction ices. petitions for eviction certificates filed for 4 months subsequent to apr. 1. 1949 ------------------------ 2.554 comparable figures are available for the 4 months prior to april 1 because there was provision in the old law that permitted the housing expediter to issue eviction ices. we have all that additional and new work. which has to be carried on by these offices. something which i do  believe has been considered to any great extent by those who figure that  we are in the process of eliminating rent control. and eliminating the need for any appropriation so far as rent control is concerned. . we should deal with this situation realisticallyi will  say honestly. because all who have been connected with this matter have acted honestly. and i pay great tribute to the distinguished senator from wyoming. who. beyond question. has done a very fine piece of work in handling the matter. it seems to me that realism demands what we should do at this time
the senator from new york would like to ask the distinguished senator from wyoming if he would be adverse in any way to any effort which might be made to discourage the housing expediter from utilizing such funds as the housing expediter might believe to be necessary under those circumstances.
the senator from new york was  quite clear whether the senator from wyoming was trying to warn the housing expediter  to use sufficient funds. or whether he was indicating to the housing expediter that he could use a sufficient amount of the funds.
the senator from new york has  finished his question. assuming that the rate of $1.900.000. or even more. should persist throughout the year. would the senator from wyoming still be willing to assist in obtaining a new appropriation to carry on the work of the housing expediter on that basis.
i thank the able senator from wyoming. it occurred to me. . that funds sufficient to administer the act. at least until the date of its termination on june 30. are absolutely essential if it is  to break down completely. i appreciate the fact that my distinguished colleague has indicated and. i presume. will indicate even further. that if funds are inadequate in new york state there will be complete chaos until the state can enact a statute of its own. whether the state will do anything of that kind. i do  k. there are rumors to that effect. the fact remains that it behooves the federal government. until the time set in the act. which is june 30. to provide funds essential for its administration. what we may do next year is something else. personally. i think rent control should be continued. but the fact remains that that is  the question before the senate at this time. the question is whether the act shall be properly carried out and administered. i think it is most vital that sufficient funds for that purpose be provided.
. it is going to be with a great deal of misgiving that i shall support the amendment as i believe it has  been modified. so as to read about as i have written it on my copy of the bill. i shall read it. in order to see whether i have recorded it correctly: on page 3. in line 3: for an additional amount for "salaries and expenses. office of the housing expediter." $4.000.000. of which $2.600.000 shall be available for the payment of terminal leave only. is that correct.
. after listening to the discussion of this matter. i am satisfied that a sufficient appropriation is  proposed to be made in this case. i think the appropriation should be at least aher $1.000.000. and perhaps an additional $2.000.000. in order that the job may be done in accordance with what is contemplated by the overall language contained in the bill. however. i understand that the members of the appropriations committee are willing to look after the matter in the future. if it is found that an additional appropriation may be necessary. that they recognize the situation as i have more or less described it. and that if a further appropriation is necessary. they will come to the rescue of the housing expediter and of the rent control administration. in respect to providing an additional sum of money in a subsequent appropriation bill or in a later deficiency bill. with that understanding. i shall reluctantly support the amendment.
it puts special emphasis on the development of cooperative housing and the advancement of the program so as to make the idea of cooperative housing more generally acceptable among the people themselves. so that the program generally can be adopted. that is the purpose of our amendment.
. in supporting the substitute amendment to title iii of senate bill 2246. which has been offered by senator tobey and myself. i call the attention of senators to our supplemental views which appear on pages 99. 100. and 101 of the committee report. this expression of our views and senator tobeys statement of last friday represent an important part of my personal opposition to title in. as it is  written. it seems to me that the question of housing should  be viewed separately. alone. and apart from the other elements in our public and private ecoy. neither should any of these matters be viewed exclusively from the standpoint of desirability. the question immediately ariseswhat is the need and how much can we afford. . these questions may appear to be somewhat oldfashioned. but it seems to me that unless we begin soon to recognize the intrinsic value in the socalled basic virtues and past policies by which our nation has grown great. someday we are going to be in for a rudeperhaps disastrousawakening. in this connection. i read. from a washington post editorial. which i understand has been inserted in the record: more important. however. are the overall ecoic objections to the sparkman bill at this time. ecoy is required to steady the general ecoy and to ready it in case of emergency needs. the government has already gone too far with socially desirable programs that it can finance with the present tax structure. if there is one thing above all others which can turn our whole ecoy into a tailspin. it is an overextension and overexpansion of credit. whether it be private credit or public credit. i have .  forgotten october of 1929. i have  forgotten the forces which provoked the financial crash of that year. a crash resulting in the great depression of the 1930s. i have  forgotten that the primary cause of that crash was the overexpansion of private credit. and let me state here and  that the social and ecoic devastation wrought by an overexpansion of governmental credit would be infiinitely greater than were the consequences of the 1929 debacle. in fact. had it  been for the excellent condition of our governmental credit in the 1930s. we should  have been able to weather the depression as we did. so. today. as we contemplate so callously the expenditure of additional billionswhether they be private or public obligationsit seems to me we would do well to pause and consider the direction we are taking. in a period of prosperity we are continuing to pile up a national debt which only a miracle can liquidate without disaster to the country. with all the ecoic traffic lights against us. we are proceeding to plunge headlong down that dizzy thoroughfare which leads to a pot of gold at the foot of a rainbow where. we are told. our national income will exceed $300.000.000.000. perhaps even a trillion dollars. as in a dream world. we stagger on blindly. sometimes seemingly in all directions at once. defying experience and reality. what memories of 1928 and 1929 come to mind if one pauses long egh to grasp the significance of current trends. does anyone remember the predictions of that great ecoist. prof. irving fisher. who said that there was to be top to the stock market. top to values. top to prosperity. that we were merely in the infancy of our great developmentalmost at the very moment when the crash came.  was professor fisher alone in his optimism. for in those years most unpopular and rare was that ecoist who dared to resort to common sense and to warn of impending catastrophe. so . as we so ambitiously look to the future of housing. we would do well to consider where our housing program is at the moment. the majority committee report which so strongly advocates the enactment of the maybanksparkman version of title iii makes little use of 1949 housing statistics. this is indeed unfortunate because 1949 was the banner year for housing construction in the united states. well over 900.000 private housing units were begun and public building of various sorts brought the overall total to more than 1.000.000 units. happily. the prospects for 1950 and even for well into 1951 appear to be excellent. even the weather. which has been mild. has contributed to this end. the impact of the housing act of 1949. with its provisions for a huge program of public housing and slum clearance. will be felt increasingly during the coming months. data from the housing and home finance agency and from the public housing administration reveal most. illuminatingly the progress that is being made under the housing act of 1949. i ask unanimous consent that they be incorporated in the record at this point.
. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. and to direct and stimulate the development of the cooperative housing program. at the same time. we would retain the operation of this program within the federal housing administration. we would emphasize the processes which are essential to the stimulation of cooperative housing through providing means for the establishment of such private housing corporations as may be helpful in the advancement of the program. we would provide means through studies and other promotional activity for the expansion of private cooperative housing associations or organizations and for obtaining a maximum amount of private investment in cooperative housing. all these things we would doand morewithout requiring the establishment of a new governmental corporation and without making big government bigger. at this point i ask unanimous consent that there be incorporated a joint statement issued by the senator from new hampshire and myself. which gives more detailed information concerning the substance of our proposal.
. i wish to ask my colleague a very brief question. i shall  take much time. because i k his time is limited. does  my colleague feel that to make the reduction which is provided for in the amendment offered by the distinguished junior senator from illis might be most disastrous. especially in view of the fact that action has been taken by the congress as a whole with respect to defense housing. and that the provi-. sion we are discussing  may be all that we shall have in concrete form by which to meet the defense housing re-
the senator from new york would again like to inquire of the senator with reference to the attitude he would take regarding the propriety of members of congress being allowed the same privilege with regard to deductions for incometax purposes as those which are allowed people in private life. that means simply this: it seems to me to be very clear that as members of the senate. or as people holding government positions. we should be given the same privilege to deduct which is given to people in private industry. in private work. and in private effort. i fully agree with the senators observation with respect to the $2.500 expense allowance. which i myself do  approve. i think that ought to be eliminated. but by the same token i do  see why we should  have the same privilege. the same right. which is given to every other american citizen in every other walk of life. namely. to deduct the expenses which are directly attributable to the work in which he is engaged. and that in this particular instance applies also to living expenses insofar as housing is concerned. and insofar as those expenses are above and beyond what one would actually have in his own home. if he had to maintain an establishment himself.
. i submit for appropriate reference amendments intended to be proposed by me to the bill to amend and extend the defense production act of 1950. as amended. and the housing and rent act of 1947. as amended. and request that they be printed. i ask unanimous consent that a statement prepared by me in support of the amendments. which would exempt compensation of certified public accountants from salary stabilization. be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend section 106 (c) of the housing act of in this connection. and at this point in my remarks. i ask unanimous consent that the bill. together with a statement i have prepared concerning the bill. the text of an editorial appearing in the new york times of march 4. and the text of a letter i have received from harry taylor. director of the office of committee on slum clearance plans of the city of new york. be printed in the record.
. on behalf of myself and my colleague. the junior senator from new york . i submit for appropriate reference amendments intended to be proposed by us. jointly. to the bill to amend and extend the defense production act of 1950. as amended. and the housing and rent act of 1947. as amended. and request that they be printed. i ask unanimous consent that the amendments and a joint statement we have prepared in support of the amendments. which would insure more equitable allocations of critical building materials for the new york construction industry. be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. it seems to me proper that a brief explanation of the bill should be made. in view of the manner in which it is  being taken up. therefore. i shall explain the bill briefly. repeating to some extent the statement i made when the bill was introduced. under title i of the housing act of 1949. the housing and home finance agency is authorized to extend capital grants to local public agencies for urban redevelopment projects. these federal capital grants. which may constitute as much as twothirds of the net cost of the projects. constitute a principal source of funds with which a local public agency expects to repay amounts borrowed to finance the projects. the present method of payment on a lumpsum basis after development is completed imposes undue burdens upon the local public agencies and results in unnecessary expenditures by the federal government and the local community. my amendment to the housing act of 1949 permitting capital grants on a progresspayment basis. clarifies and eases the present situation. a report by the staff of the senate banking and currency committee in support of this change explains the current operations under the law as follows: if the local agency must await until every phase of a project is completed and the exact net project cost computed before receiving any capital grant under its federal contract. the local agency will generally be prevented from paying back the borrowed funds until that time and. therefore. will have to pay accumulating interest and carrying charges for an extended period after a substantial portion of the project has been completed. for all practical purposes. and a portion of the federal capital grant has been earned. the disposition of the land in the project. the settlement claims for demolition and site improvement work. and pending condemnation cases may extend this period for a considerable time. as a federal capital grant is based on net project cost. any losses due to extended interest and carrying charges must be borne by the federal government as well as the community furnishing local grantsinaid. to the extent that funds available for capital grants under title i are used to pay such losses. they are. of course.  available for other slum clearance. and urban redevelopment projects and the effectiveness of the title i program is reduced accordingly. unless progress payments of federal capital grants are authorized. a burden will result to some communities in addition to their share of extra project costs. these communities are furnishing financing for title i projects through municipal bond issues and are subject. in this regard. to statutory or constitutional debt limitations. the inability of the municipality or other local public agency to obtain any federal capital grant for a project until its completion in all respects will delay the repayment of the municipalitys outstanding slumclearance obligations. which may be quite substantial in the aggregate. this extended depletion of the municipalitys borrowing authority will prevent or seriously restrict the undertaking of title i programs in accordance with carefully worked out schedules the municipality would otherwise adopt. for these reasons we believe that title i of the housing act of 1949 should be amended to authorize partial payments of capital grants as they are earned by local agencies. such payments would be analogous to partial payments customarily made under other types of contracts for work performed which are designed to relieve contractors from the costs and other burdens of having their credit resources tied up until all contractual obligations have been fulfilled. the nature of this proposed amendment has been discussed with representatives of the housing and home finance agency who have expressed general agreement with it. in this connection they point out that it will be necessary for the amendment to waive section 3648 of the revised statutes. which places general restrictions on progress payments by the united states. the amendment permitting progress payments is important to all sections of the country. in new york city. the committee on slum clearance plans headed by commissioner robert moses is doing admirable work in meeting the. need for lowcost housing. the editorial from the new york times which i have inserted in the record discusses the slumclearance plans of the committee. commissioner moses and mr. harry taylor. director of the office of committee on slumclearance plans of the city of new york. have expressed their strongest support for this amendment. i have inserted in the record a copy of mr. taylors letter outlining their views. i can foresee objection to this technical amendment to the housing act of 1949. which benefits all sections of the country.
. i submit for appropriate reference an amendment intended to be proposed by me to the bill to extend the provisions of the defense production act of 1950. as amended. and the housing and rent act of 1947. as amended. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
. from the committee on banking and currency. i report an original joint resolution to extend certain authority of the federal national mortgage association to guam and to amend the national housing act with respect to housing in alaska. and i submit a report ( 155) thereon.
. i introduce for appropriate reference. a bill to amend subsection 106 (e) of the national housing act of 1949 relating to capital grants for slum clearance and urban redevelopment. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record following these remarks the text of the amendment and a short explanation of its provisions.
it has hing to do with the taxpayers. while i do  wish to take issue with the committee on appropriations. i am wondering if it is  possible to substitute some other figure. i have in my hand a memorandum which i believe to be accurate. and which i desire to present at this point in my remarks. because i think it is rather important and should be considered. the bill as reported by the committee cuts the federal housing administrations authorization for administrative expenses from $27.500.000 to $25 million. fha is entirely selfsupporting. these funds come out of fhas insurance income and  out of the treasury. fha collects $4 for every dollar it spends for operating expenses. the cut of $2.500.000 would  save money. the cut would mean just thisthat fha would be unable to process about 100.000 unit applications for mortgage insurance. the fees and initial premiums alone on these applications would total more than $6 million. this would  be true ecoy. the cut would  be a true ecoy for aher important reason. it would prevent fha from doing an adequate job of risk analysis and inspection of properties.
. what does what the fha may spend from its fees the senator mean by every other agency. and premiums. all of us want to be fair does he mean every other agency which to public housing and fair to slum earns money. or all agencies of the fed- clearance. eral government. i think we would go too far if we were
i think here we have even a clearer case because the law expires today. and we are having to extend it to august 1 in anticipation of a new housing act which it is expected will be passed before congress finally adjourns. it is very essential that the law be extended.
the report reads as follows: the committee on banking and currency. to whom was referred the bill to amend the united states housing act of 1937 so as to extend for 5 years the period in which the families of veterans and servicemen may be admitted to lowrent housing without meeting the requirements of section 15 (8) (b) (ii) of that act. having considered the same. report favorably thereon with an amendment. and recommend that the bill. as amended. do pass. this bill as introduced would have amended section 15 (8) (b) of the united states housing act of 1937. as amended. to extend for 5 years the period in which the families of veterans and servicemen may be admitted to lowrent public housing without meeting the requirement of such section that they must have come from substandard housing at the time of admission to public housing. unless extended. this period expires march 1. 1954. your committee has amended the bill to provide for a temporary extension to august 1. 1954. in order to give your committee an opportunity to consider this provision in connection with other housing legislation pending before the committee.
 and his advisory committee. a substantial portion of the pending bill is designed to aid and encourage our communities in their efforts presumably to abolish their slums. moreover. a vital part and purpose of such a program is the proper relocation of individuals living in slum areas. and these objectives can be attained only by the construction of housing which lies within their limited means. all of us k that the present high cost of construction makes it impossible for builders to construct private rental housing in our larger metropolitan areas to meet the needs of tenants in the lower income brackets. the public housing administration has pointed out that the median income of tenants in public housing projects is less than $2.000 per annum. in this connection i quote from the advisory committees report: in 1951. the last year for which data are  available. onehalf of the more than 35 million farm families of 2 or more persons had incomes of less than $3.900. there were 3.800.000 families with incomes less than $1.500. and 8 million families who had $2.500 or less. clearly in many communities slum clearance and redevelopment programs must be coupled with the construction of public housing if the residents of blighted areas are to be relocated in decent housing.
s program for 140.000 publichousing units is included in this bill. furthermore. the 35.000 units thus authorized are so limited by restrictions that. in terms of effective authorization. the bill will be practically useless for public housing in the large urban areas throughout the country where public housing is most needed. h. r. 7839. as amended by the conferees. sounds the death knell of federal public housing which is so desperately needed to prevent further deterioration of our urban communities. new york state contributes more than onesixth of the total federal revenues and receives about onefourteenth of the total amounts distributed by the federal government to the states. the method of distribution is based generally on the per capita income and need of the several states.. we in new york have quarrel with the principle on which this distribution is based as long as its application is equitable. but we do feel that where we are in genuine need of federal assistance. this need should be recognized. we feel that in the comparatively few cases where we actually need such assistance. we are  asking too much in seeking it. public housing is a case in point. particularly in new york city where there is dire need for more public housing. as i have pointed out. the bill before the senate. as amended by the conferees. does  provide for adequate public housing in any part of the country where. such housing is really needed. this inadequacy hits new york state especially hard. and i feel deeply that my state is entitled to more favorable consideration. for the foregoing reasons. therefore. i have been unable to agree to the conference report. and i must vote against it.
. i join my colleague from new york in what he has said. it is very vital that the down payments be lowered. when congress took this action. it  only authorized. but. in a sense. directed that it be done. it has  been done. it must be done. otherwise the housing industry itselfthe building industry in that fieldwill be in a deplorable condition. the people who need houses will be without them.
 of the new york state commission for human rights. the first such state body. created in 1945. perhaps you will permit me to say that an equal employment commission works and works well. results in human terms underscore this. and the figures further confirm it. from 1945 to 196310.869 total complaints were filedover 8.000 of these on employmentand the vast majority were settled voluntarily by conference. conciliation. and persuasion. of the some 1 percent that finally went to public hearings. only 12 today are still pending. the new york state commission for human rights has pioneered effectively and it has  been copied in 22 states of the union with fair employment laws covering some 64 percent of the american people. therefore. from conviction and from a little experience. i strongly support this title and the overall billh.r. 7152. . in lincolns phrase. let the news go forth from this great house that america recognizes its responsibilities and. above all. that the american peoplethrough this bodywill make hope. human dignity. and equal opportunity a reality  for all americans. let it be said we kept covenant with the american dream. i insert the following table of the disposition of complaints filed with the new york state commission for human rights. 194563for the information of the members. complaints filed with the new york state commission for human rights. 194563 employment public disposition total accom- housing education modations age other probable cause. specific complaint sustained: adjusted after conference and conciliation ...... 2.221 120 1.351 350 399 1 ordered for hearing or consent order issued - 1 123 ---------- 73 17 33 ......... probable cause found as to specific complaint but other discriminatory practices or policies found and adjusted ----------------------------- 1.739 74 1.600 38 27 ......... probable cause found. specific complaint dismissed and other discriminatory practices or policies found ----------------------------------- 4.941 233 3.913 433 349 13 withdrawn by complaint ------------------------- 285 14 172 47 50 2 lack of jurisdiction. specific complaint dismissed-- 2 880 41 368 53 405 5 total closed --- . . . ..--------------------------2 10.189 482 7.477 938 1.263 21 open. dec. 31. 1963 ------------------------------ 680 36 378 42 221 3 total filed ---------------------------------- 10.869 518 7.855 980 1.484 24 1 29 of these complaints were settled by a consent order without being ordered for public hearing. of the remaining 94. their status as of dec. 31. 1963. is as follows: settled or discontinued before hearing ------------------------------------------------------------------ 49 settled during hearing ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23 hearing completed ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14 pending (hearing started for 7) _---------------------.-------------.-------------------------------- 8 a hearing is sometimes concerned with 2 or more similar complaints. the 94 complaints ordered for hearing were equivalent to 51 hearings. as follows: settled or discontinued before hearing ------------------------------------------------------------------ 28 settled during hearing --------------------------------------------.------------------------------------ 7 hearing completed -------------------------------------.---------------------------------------------- 12 pending (hearing started for 3) ------------------------------------------------------------------------4 2 includes 8 complaints  related to employment. public accommodations. housing. or education.
. 10.000 american communities have serious problems of air pollution. the demand for water consumption may exceed the available supply before the end of the century. there are 9 million substandard housing units in the united states. and traffic jams cost the nation more than $5 billion each year. the bureaucracy simply does  have the capacity to solve todays problems and to foresee tomorrowsbut private industry. with the systems management approach. is rapidly developing that capacity. i am hopeful that the congress will take swift action on this farreaching measure.
. i believe that h.r. 2516. the civil rights bill as passed by the senate. should be strongly supported on the merits. open housing legislation is a national imperative which has been deferred too long. twentyone states have fair housing legislation. new york. for one. has much broader language than is in the senate bill. it seems to me that we should  forget that this nation has before it the report of the national advisory commission on civil disorders. the need. as pointed out in the report. is dramatic. and has  been met in an adequate fashion. parliamentary maneuvers which could send the bill to conference could represent serious delay. a possible filibusterimperiling if  defeating the bill. let us be clear that reporting the bill to conference could result in its  seeing the light of day in this session. i would urgently hope that the rules committee would in its wisdom report a resolution at an early date and that the full membership of the house would have an opportunity to vote on a bill. one of the most important before this congress in a generation.
 has proposed that these 6 million units be replaced over a 10year period. and the riot commission has recommended that progress be at a rate that is twice as fast. yet this bill anticipates construction of about 1.4 million units in the next 3 years. assuming full appropriations. at that rate. we would replace existing substandard units only in 1982 to speak of those which will decay in the intervening years. this is clearly much too far in the future. to spend $5 billion on housing over 3 years means that we spend $1.5 billion per yearor about as much as we expend monthly in vietnam. i believe that this is a clear indication that our priorities are quite out of order. and  in line with the needs of this nation at this time. the housing goal of "a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family." first set in the housing act of 1949. and reaffirmed in the bill before us. still remains more than a decade away under this bill. this is too long to wait. even so. unless we enact this bill. and then vote for full appropriations instead of the 30 to 50 percent of the authorization that this congress usually allots to urban programs. that goal will be relegated to a yet more distant future.
york. . i feel the house and the congress must show a new sense of urgency if we are to meet the housing problems so urgently described by the kerner commission and others. i urge enactment of this bill as a necessary step toward reaching our goals in housing construction.
member of the u.s. congress. 17th congressional district. washington. d.c. dear mr. kupferman: i sincerely appreciate your letter concerning the ill effects from excessive se. which was printed a few weeks ago in one of the san francisco papers. the s.p. chronicle. please tell me to whom i might write to endorse your efforts for legislation for research into the control of this great nuisance to peaceful living. i shall write to the california congressmen and would like to k others who might be influential. with increasing populations and people living in closer and closer proximity to one aher. the necessary steps should be taken  to guarantee sufficient quiet in home and living areas. i would like to emphasize the need for soundproofing requirements in apartment buildings. neighbors. of course. all live on varying schedules. and it is very disturbing (as anyone who have lived in apartment houses ks) to try to sleep or relax with excessive se from neighbors next door. insulation against sound should be mandatory in apartment buildings. i understand that in sweden. great britain and germany. there are such laws for control of sound in apartment buildings. i interpret your interest in "se pollution" as being on a larger scale than just apartment houses and local ses. perhaps you refer more to industrial se. or even sonic booms. may i. in this regard. comment that my personal feeling about military needs. such as sonic booms caused by military aircraft. are far more important than a personal complaint by an individual. if an airborne jet of the u.s. air force causes a sonic boom. then we can tolerate thisit must be vital to the defense of the country. it is good to k of your active interest. sincerely.
my amendment. . i urge the passage of this amendment. this subsidy that we are talking about will make up for a very basic shortcoming in the 236 program. which is a lack of flexibility to meet ecoic change. furthermore. it will give congress and the department of housing and urban development time to examine the program. with a view toward making these projects viable in todays market. i do understand that in some sections of the country hud has been compelled to grant this subsidy. they are doing it in a few projects. but they do  seem to be consistent. they are only doing it in accordance with court decrees. so i think it is time we get this subsidy program underway. i k that the distinguished chairman and the ranking miity member of the committee have given some thought to hearings on this proposal in the future. naturally. i would be most interested in hearing their views. but it seems to me that it is the kind of matter that we ought to get on with. unless. of course. there is some compelling reason to the contrary. which i have  yet had the opportunity to hear.
. i can go on and on citing examples in which the federal government has spent millions of dollars to rebuild structures on barrier beaches and islands that have already been developed. but i think i have made my point. if the nation were enjoying better ecoic times. and there were a federal surplus instead of a federal deficit. i would be introducing legislation to acquire undeveloped barrier areas as national wildlife refuges. but. our current ecoic situation does  permit that kind of spending. so we must look at alternative methods to afford4 these undeveloped barrier lands some measure of protection from future degradation. today. i am introducing legislation that will prohibit the federal government from providing financial assistance f or commercial and residential growth on undeveloped barriers. such a policy can save the federal taxpayers millions of dollars and can indirectly discourage maninduced alteration of these wildlife natural areas. my bill would establish a coastal barrier resources system and deny new federal expenditures on those undeveloped areas for almost every purpose. including the new construction of sewers and roads. new loans for home construction and ecoic development. new shoreline erosion. and stabilization projectsexcept in cases where emergency assistance is required. and the sale of new federal flood insurance policies for new construction or substantial improvements.
it is  16 percent of income. it is a. portion of wvhat a gs14 receives for ani allowance. under the current rules. it would be anything in excess of $6.000 that he is receiving for housing expenses is taxable. so if you are working abroad for aramco or somebody. and aramco pays you $20.000 for housing in riyadh. the first $6.000 is taxable and the amount above that is taxable.
getting to the point i want to make here. it is my understanding from talking with -arious real estate operators. it seemed to me that the plea was for a uniform depreciation schedule. for example. whien the senator talks about residential. what does thpea do to. say. apartment houses.
i would like to clarify a paragraph on page 321 of the committee report relating to investment programs by pension plans in loans fully secured by property. which may include investment in mortgage loans to participants. as the senator ks. such programs are  only a good investment for plans but also a great help to our depressed housing industry. my understanding of this paragraph is as follows: suppose that a plan with a large number of participants. such as a multiemployer plan. a plan of a state or local government. or a plan of a large corporation. invests $10 million in a program of residential mortgages. suppose further that under this program the plan invests in loans to participants which are fully secured by the participants house. the loan may secondarily be secured by the participants account or benefit under the plan. my understanding is that portion of those loans would be treated as distributions. i want to be absolutely certain of this.
. on behalf of senator pell and myself. i am today introducing legislation which would allow the secretary of defense to select an alternative to the conventional construction of military family housings the alternative would permit the secretary of defense to enter into a longterm lease for family housing. this alternative could provide an attractive and ecoical method of procuring family housing in certain situations. and i believe we should make this alternative available. a companion measure has been introduced in the house of representatives. it is my hope that the department of defense and the appropriate committees of congress will give this measure their early and favorable attention.e by mr. mathias:
. there is for them to pay down their mortgage amendment pending. is there. if they so choose. obviously. they have the presiding officer. the the same income. you can say some senator is correct. person has had his house for 20 years. mr. byrd. if there is amendthe other person just moved to town. ment pending. i ask to speak out of the price of real estate is highyes. order. you can choose all kinds of examples. if any senator comes to the floor but i think under the circumstances and wishes to have the floor to call up the senator outlines. probably the an amendment same situation. borrowing on the if there is a senator who wishes to equity loan. have the floor or wishes to come to
. there is for them to pay down their mortgage amendment pending. is there. if they so choose. obviously. they have the presiding officer. the the same income. you can say some senator is correct. person has had his house for 20 years. mr. byrd. if there is amendthe other person just moved to town. ment pending. i ask to speak out of the price of real estate is highyes. order. you can choose all kinds of examples. if any senator comes to the floor but i think under the circumstances and wishes to have the floor to call up the senator outlines. probably the an amendment same situation. borrowing on the if there is a senator who wishes to equity loan. have the floor or wishes to come to
. on january 31. it was my ho to address a conference of save the bay. the largest environmental organization in rhode island and one of the most influential environmental organizations in new england. in my remarks. i called upon environmentalists to mount a national campaign to create a new national. dedicated trust fund to be used for the benefit of all citizens in the purchase of open space and to provide funds for outdoor recreation opportunities across the country. i suggested that the money for this fund come from a new real estate transfer fee and that it be used to guarantee the resources needed to preserve. for the enjoyment of all americans. at least a small portion of the land  taken each year for urban and suburban development. over the course of the next several months. i intend to meet with environmental leaders. developers. and others to develop legislation to meet this goal: i hope to have legislation ready for introduction later this year. in the meantime. i believe we should begin a national debate on the merits of creating a mechanism to preserve open space for a variety of purposes to benefit the american people. it is for that reason that i ask unanimous consent that the text of my remarks on january 31 to save the bay in providence. ri. be inserted in the congressional record at this point.
. today we must take a long overdue step toward addressing the suffering of the homeless in this country. i am proud to cosponsor h.r. 558. the urgent relief for the homeless act. the act represents our feeling as a bipartisan body that one in this country should lack the basics of human existence. today we must act in support of that feelingby voting for this responsible and realistic approach to the immediate problems faced by the masses of men. women and children who are currently forced to live on our streets every day and sleep on benches every night. there could be as many as 2 million homeless individuals in the united states. they are of disparate backgrounds. they are of all ages and colors. they have one thing in common. they are united by a basic human need for food. shelter. and clothing. the american dream remains unfulfilled so long as we continue to look the other way as we pass hungry children and broken men on our way to work. this is an emergency measure. it does  purport. and can be expected. to solve the spreading problem of homelessness. what it can be expected to do is to ease the discomfort of those who are homeless and save lives when the winter and cold sets in and there is "room at the inn." in rhode island. this emergency measure will aid the approximately 500 homeless personsthe fastest growing segment of which are women and childrenin a number of ways.
on behalf of myself and my distinguished colleague from rhode island. senator pell. i would like to engage the distinguished floor managers of the department of housing and urban developmentindependent agencies appropriations bill in a -short colloquy. as my distinguished colleagues may recall. the water quality act of 1987 contains a section. section 315(b). authorizing the administrator of the environmental protection agency [epa] to establish -and conduct. at various locations throughout the nation. a clean lakes demonstration program. two of the projects authorized by this subsection are gortons pond and lake washington in rhode island.
. shortly the senate will consider a compromise housing bill which is a sound and reasonable response to this years challenge in housing: to renew and update our basic housing programs in a way that responds to the need but is fiscally responsible. the package before us today fills that bill. and i urge my colleagues to give it their support. id like to commend senators
. today i am joining in the introduction of legislation that is vitally important to all lowincome americans as well as homeless americans. the bill we are introducing would extend the expiration date of the lowincome housing credit for 1 year from the end of 1989 to the end of 1990. one of the proposals advanced in the recent rousemaxwell report is the indefinite extension of the lowincome housing credit program. the rousemaxwell report was developed by a highlevel task force assigned by tile senate housing subcommittee to recommend comprehensive housing policy reforms. while  going as far as the rousemaxwell report recommends. our bill would provide congress with the additional time necessary to study the program and determine if it is accomplishing its stated goals. we created this lowincome housing tax credit as part of the tax reform act of 1986 to encourage construction and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. the credit has the potential for expanding the supply of available and affordable housing and. in fact. is necessary to provide the incentive to develop or reate housing for the poor. however. providing the necessary housing supply for the poor is a longterm job. according to the rousemaxwell report. a lowincome housing tax credit that expires at the end of 1989 will  be effective in sufficiently increasing the supply of lowincome housing. the state housing agencies that assist with these programs must invest a considerable amount of time and resources in the development of the necessary capacity to administer them. in addition. private housing developers must have considerable lead time for the projects. these necessary participants in the program need to k that it will be extended past 1989. in order to encourage them to make the required investments in time and resources. history has shown that investment in lowincome housing is highly dependent on the tax benefits provided by this credit. i would urge my colleagues to give this bill their full support.9 by mr. karnes:
. last april marked the 20th anniversary of the fair housing act. the fair housing act is truly a landmark. but for too long it has been an unfinished landmark. the legislation before us today is an appropriate and longoverdue capstonewithout which our job can hardly be considered complete. by putting real teeth into the nations fair housing laws. this bill will go a long way toward helping the millions of americans that encounter discrimination in their search for shelter. its provisions are long overdue. and i urge the senate to adopt them without further delay.
i thank the distinguished floor manager for that reassurance. i also thank the miity floor manager. senator grassley. this is very important to us. we have turned in rhode island. for reasons that sometimes are hard to fathom. into a state in which housing has become quite expensive. and thus these 220 units for those enlisted men and officers who are stationed in newport and going through the training facilities are extremely important. i thank both senators and their counterparts on the milcon appropriations subcommittee for these 220 units.
. today we are introducing hopehome ownership and opportunity for people everywhere. this bill proposes a number of thoughtful and practical solutions to one of the most urgent problems confronting the nation today: the dearth of affordable housing opportunities. a visit to any city or state will reveal the depth of americas housing crisis. one can see empty public housing buildings. neglected and graffitiscarreda portrait of the nations failed building programs. one can also see the growing homeless populationa tragedy in the midst of the wealthiest county in the world. we need strong action to address these problems.
the only reason i am asking these questions. i heard the suggestion being made that hing would be subject to amendment. my question is: am i correct that aid policies would ensure that the housing guarantee money spent on the west bank.
. i k that it is the policy of the united states. as i understand it. to discourage settlements in the west bank. it would seem very hard for us to be. in effect. subsidizing housing. i guess it is a guarantee. but king the way life is. i would  be surprised if we do  end up paying the money. that we will be constructing that very housing in the area where we say housing should  be built. a settlement should  occur. but the distinguished republican leader has indicated that the secretary of state. who certainly is going forward with our policy. indicates he does  want restrictive language in there. at least in the authorization.
i would be pleased to do so. am i correct that the agency for international development policies would ensure that the $400 million in housing guaranty money which would be authorized by this bill could  be spent with regard to housing on the west bank or in gaza.
i thank the senator. i do  want anybody to think that i agree the comprehensive approach is the only way to go. i believe very strongly in this amendment. i believe this amendment will providei do  only believe. i kmore housing for the homeless. for the lowincome people in america. that has been substantiated by the information we have received.  just anecdotal information. but from our own experience seeing it in our own states. but also in a letter from the cbo. so i urge my colleagues to support this amendment when it comes or. should this be a tabling motion. to vote against the tabling motion.
. the lowincome housing credit was created in the tax reform act of 1986 to encourage construction and rehabilitation of housing for lowincome americans. the credit was originally enacted for a test period of 3 years to provide the congress with an opportunity to study the effectiveness of the program in accomplishing its stated goals. since the enactment of this credit. the congress has twice extended the credit. however. it is currently scheduled to expire at the end of this year. in 1988. the rousemaxwell report was issued by a high level task force assigned by the subcommittee on housing of the senate banking committee to recommend comprehensive housing policy reforms. one of the proposals advanced in that report was the indefinite extension of the lowincome housing credit. the bill we are introducing would implement this recommendation of the rousemaxwell report by permanently extending the lowincome housing credit. this legislation is vitally important to filling the housing needs of all lowincome americans. including those americans who are homeless. in addition. i believe the effectiveness of this credit in providing lowincome housing has been proven during the 4 years since its enactment. the credit provides a valuable tax incentive to both profit and forprofit developers to fund the production and preservation of lowincome rental housing. it is absolutely necessary to encourage the development and reation of housing for the poor. in my state. the rhode island housing and mortgage finance corp. [rihmfcj has used the tax credit to successfully address the needs of our citizens for safe and affordable housing. the loss of these credits would be devastating to their efforts. by combining the credit with bond financing and zero interest second mortgages. rihmfc has been able to produce and preserve lowincome housing in one of this countrys most expensive housing markets. our state was one of only nine states to use 100 percent of its credit allocation for both 1988 and during the last 3 years. 25 rhode island developers have received tax credit financing for the production and preservation of a total of 851 units of lowincome rental housing. although only 10 of the 25 developers are profit organizations. they have received 72 percent of the almost $3 million dollars in tax credits that have been allocated by rihmfc. according to the national council of state housing agencies. rhode island allocated a higher percentage of 1988 lowincome housing credits to profit housing developers than any state in the country. providing an adequate supply of safe and affordable housing is a longterm job. for both state housing agencies and developers. state housing agencies that assist with these programs must invest a considerable amount of time and resources in the development of the necessary administrative capacity to operate the program. in addition. private housing developers must have considerable lead time for these undertakings. if they are to make the required investments in time and resources. these necessary participants in the program must k that it will be extended past this year. this bill preserves the basic structure of the credit. as amended in 1989 and 1990. by tightly targeting the program to provide housing for families whose income is at or below 60 percent of area median income. in addition. a familys monthly rental cost for a unit in a lowincome housing project must  exceed 30 percent of their monthly income. the amendments made to the credit in 1989 and 1990 assure that tax credit developments receive only the amount of benefits necessary for their feasibility and longterm viability as lowincome developments. experience has shown that investment in lowincome housing is highly dependent on the tax benefits provided by this credit. the lowincome housing credit is one of the most direct and efficient ways to subsidize the production of lowcost. affordable housing for lowincome americans. i urge my colleagues to give this bill their full support. by mr. mccain (for himself.
. i look forward to working with the housing subcommittee and the hud secretary to implement the promising components of the national affordable housing act. at this time. however. i must support the current fiscal year funding schedule and urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment.
. i would like to congratulate leon stewart of pawtucket. ri. for being named a national winner in the 01 joe real american hero search. the search hos children aged 5 to 12 throughout the country who have performed outstanding heroic deeds. when a fire broke out in the familys apartment last march. leon. who is i. first carried his 4yearold brother outside to safety and then went back into the apartment to rescue his 1yearold brother who was sleeping in his crib. firefighters were able to put out the blaze. and thanks to leons quick thinking. one was hurt. as a national winner. leon and his family were flown to washington for a weekend of sightseeing and other activities including an award ceremony hosted by adm. richard truly of the national aeronautics and space agency [nasa] and a meeting at the white house with first lady barbara bush. i k leons family must be extremely proud of him. i am pleased to have this opportunity to recognize his courageous act.
. i would like to comment briefly on the issue of the $10 billion of housing and infrastructure loan guarantees that israel has requested from the united states. yesterday. before the house appropriations committee. secretary of state james baker enunciated the american policy of linking the granting of loan guarantees to the cessation of construction of new housing in the israeli occupied territories of the west bank and gaza strip. i believe this to be a rational and prudent approach by mr. baker. the american government has consistently held that unilateral settlement construction is counterproductive to the middle east peace process. in yesterdays washington post. the israeli ambassador to the united states. zalman shoval. is quoted. as saying that as a result of the american position "the dilemma right  of israel is to take a decision * * * between the safety of our compatriots in the commonwealth of independent states  and the safety of our country tomorrow." this statement seems to reflect a line of reasoning that is currently popular in israel that a new settlement construction freeze is akin to accepting the ultimate abandon. ment of the occupied territories. this reflects a misconception that needs to be set aside once and for all so that our discussions on loan guarantees can proceed on a factual basis. the fact is that. a new settlement construction freeze is  the equivalent of a return of the occupied territories. the united states has never called directly for israel to abandon this land. instead. each and every american administration has called for the adherence to u.n. resolution 242. this resolution does contemplate the eventual return of territory but only as a result of direct. facetoface talks between israel and its arab neighbors. indeed. just such direct. negotiations resumed here in washington yesterday morning. it is our hope and determination that these negotiations succeed. and that is what makes it so important that. new settlement construction stop. peace will  come to this troubled area of the world unless the various parties are able to negotiate an agreement. new settlement construction makes it increasingly difficult to negotiate on the future of the occupied territories. the united states is  asking israel to choose between the safety of commonwealth immigrants and its own survival. all secretary baker is asking is that the israeli government give the peace negotiations a chance to flourish and ultimately succeed. i think he should be commended for this effort.
. again. i urge my colleagues to support the packwood substitute. i believe that. at a relatively modest cost. it is going to do the things we are seeking in this legislation. it will stimulate the ecoy. it will provide jobs. it will . i will say. work wonders for the real estate industry. but it will certainly work as a tremendous encouragement to the real estate industry. i think it is a good bill.
. i have heard some very powerful speeches on the floor this evening. the distinguished senior senator from maryland always spoke so well. the new senator from washington. about these extremely worthwhile programs. the need to take care of the seniors in the community under the community development block grants. the virtues of head start. how wonderful it is to build roads. it all sounds good to me. and i just have. one question of the senior senator from maryland who. perhaps. we could rightfully call the king of the charts--if i could get his attention.
. it is with great pleasure that i rise today to pay tribute to mr. nick nibi of wellesley. ma. in ho of his retirement on april 2. 1993. after 35 years as one of the federal governments most active affordable housing advocates. nick began his career in public service in 1958 as an attorneyadvisor with the housing and home finance agency [hhfa] in new york city. in 1967. soon after the hhfa was renamed the department of housing and urban development [hud]. he was. promoted to deputy assistant regional administrator for metropolitan. development for region i. then located in new york. in 1970. nick left his native new york to become the assistant regional administrator [ara] for metropolitan planning and development for the new region i in boston. as the department grew and changed over the next decade. he demonstrated the wide scope of his expertise. serving as the ara for community planning and management. and later for housing production and mortgage credit. by the late 1970s. his hard work and dedication earned this wellrespected gentleman the position of director of the office of housing. in huds regional office in boston. under his leadership. region i surpassed each and every year the goals outlined by the secretary of the department for subsidized housing production and for providing housing for the elderly. in fact. it is estimated that during his tenure as director of housing. over 200.000 housing units insured. subsidized. or funded hud were built in rhode island. and that more than 300.000 such units were built in new england. clearly. this true servant of the public built his career by tackling our nations affordable housing crisis head on. it should come as surprise. then. that in recognition of his resourcefulness and diligence. nick has been presented numerous awards for superior service from every regional administrator. this achievement is topped only by the prestigious supervisory excellence award for superior performance. which the late hud seoretary patricia harris presented to him at huds annual awards ceremony here in washington in 1917. therefore. i ask my colleagues in the senate to join with me and all new englanders in commending nick nibi for his 35 years of outstanding service. and in wishing him all the best.*
. it is with great satisfaction that i rise today to pay tribute to mrs. helen coupe of scituate. ri. mrs. coupe. a brokerassociate at the re/max metro real estate sales office in warwick. ri. since 1988. was recently inducted into the "re/max hall of fame." membership in the "re/max hall of fame" recognizes substantial accomplishment based on volume of sales produced during an associates re/ max career. to date. only 835 of the 32.311 re/max agents in th america have earned this prestigious ho. all re/max associates are fulltime professionals who average 10 years of experience in the industry. mrs. coupe has been a member of the "100 percent club." which recognizes annual sales volume. and has also been the top producing re/max agent in all of rhode island. for each of the past 4 years. during the same 4year period. she earned recognition as one of the top three producing re/max agents in the entire new england region. and attained the  1 position during 2 of those 4 years. in addition. she has received top sales hos from the greater providence board of realtors for the past 4 years. consistently having production in excess of $5.000.000 annually. in the words of kathleen k. sisinger. regional director of re/max of new england. "helens success is an indication of her professionalism and perseverance. she has consistently provided superior service to her clients during the 6 years she has been in this industry." as we in congress explore ways to revitalize. americas ecoy. i think it is incumbent upon us to recognize individuals whose entrepreneurial spirit and hard work are the foundation of americas prosperity. i ask my colleagues in the senate to join with me and all rhode islanders in commending mrs. coupe for her unrelenting devotion to her company. clients. and family.o
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on agriculture. nutrition. and forestry be allowed to meet during the session of the senate on tuesday. may 16. 1995 at 9:30 a.m.. in sr332. to discuss rural development and credit.
. cities are meant to live in. and yet since the end of world war ii. living has become a stepchild to structural esthetics. commercial convenience. and industrial efficiency. for a minute today. i would like to avoid the generalities of philosophical clamoring for better housing and tell it as it is in my own fourth district of connecticut. where there existed slums. there are  shopping centers. where there existed substandard multifamily tenements. there exist officeresearch complexes. truly it can be said that a drive down the connecticut turnpike is more eye pleasing today than it was 20 years ago. truly it can be said that the tax base of the cities of connecticut rests more comfortably on the affluence of commerce than on the risks of homes. and truly it can be said that escape from city to suburb has become an illusory panacea for both the creator of the homeless community and the desperate homeless. the legislation that i am introducing today amends title i of the housing act of 1949 and very simply does the following: the present law only requires a percentage of low- and moderateincome housing where housing is called for in the plan of renewal. it is important to e that there is requirement that any housing be constructed at all. it is my proposition that where substandard housing is torn down in the process of urban renewal. that it be replaced with at least an equivalent amount of decent housing. you see. to me. the present principle of relocation is only an excuse for failing to make the investment in decent living within the cities themselves. the emphasis must be on quality of environment for the people of our cities. good housing. good education. good recreation. good health facilitiesthese must be built on location. and they can be shuffled from stamford to greenwich. or bridgeport to fairfield. or new york to connecticut or from the south to the th. we talk about the american home being the foundation of our nations strength. to many americans. the first question is still unanswered: what home.
. this amendment adds a direction.  money. to the bill. at the present time when the term "urban renewal" is used it is the general belief that housing is involved. on the other hand. as urban renewal has been actually used i would say the emphasis has been placed  on housing but on office complexes and shopping centers. it is all right to go ahead and say that relocation takes care of that problem. i supported and was delighted to support the amendment of the gentleman from texas. but the fact remains that new housing is created in a city through relocation. the urban renewal act. as it  stands. does  have any requirement for housing. only if housing is a part of the urban renewal plan is it then necessary to have a percentage go into lowand moderateincome housing. but there is requirement that there be any housing whatsoever.
with due respect to the gentleman from pennsylvania. the fact remains this is exactly the point i am trying to make. if housing is called for in the plan then. yes. 20 percent has to be devoted to low- and moderateincome housing. the way the law presently reads there is requirement there be any housing in the plan whatsoever. what is happening is that they go into areas. raze the residential substandard housing. and put in shopping centers and office complexes. they are  replacing them with any new housing. that is the fact of the situation.
all right. then if the gentleman puts that interpretation on it. he is entitled to do so. what i am saying is that as far as urban renewal is concerned. if the area contains housing there is requirement that any housing be put back into it. but where housingresidencesare being razed. there should be some requirement that a certain minimum number should go back in. at the present time. certainly in the cities in the theast. they do  have thi.. requirement. relocation creates hing new. cities go ahead and ask the surrounding towns why they do  go ahead and take care of their own particular problems. as far as this program is concerned. it is  urban renewal. but is urban withdrawal . this amendment very simply gives direction. it does  cost 1 cent. the amendment says. and i repeat. that when housing is to be torn down in an area scheduled for urban renewal. then said plan of renewal shall call for at least an equivalent number of standard housing units. this amendment says that the consideration of building up the tax list going on in the cities can override the priority of building decent homes. if the surburbs are bedroom towns. then the cities in my state are bocoming office. shipping center complexes. that is  urban renewal. it is urban withdrawal. if under present practical use of our urban renewal laws urban renewal has become comfortable and secure because it rests on the affluence of commerce. then i believe the time has come to remind the potential users of these funds that the federal role is a gamble for people.  a sure loan for beauty. convenience. and profits.
yes. to the extent where your amendment takes over there is a plan for housing. but the situation i am trying to cover here is when there is an urban renewal project and there is plan for housing whatsoever. yet housing has: been torn down. yes. it makes the community recognize that it has been torn down. and makes it put it back into the housing stream.
is it  true that many of the subsequent programs that have come forth in the housing field might very well be the product of the urban renewal program in that it has displaced people insofar as housing is concerned but did  create any new housing and thus it might also be true that federal funds used for urban renewal have created a housing problem in this field.
. i intend to make a motion to recommit. after the committee rises. based on the amendment presented to the committee yesterday aftern. very briefly. let us set the record straight. that urban renewal. under the present laws. has requirement whatsoever for the creation of housing. the only requirements in the law today are those requirements stating that if housing is a part of the urban redevelopment plan then 20 percent shall be low- or moderateincome housing. but there is requirement for any housing whatsoever. the net result of this has been clear. rather than create a situation in our cities whereby they can be developed in balance. both the commercial side and the living side. this particular piece of legislation really could be called the great shopping plaza renewal act or the office building renewal act. far from assisting with the housing needs of this country. this very piece of legislation has gone ahead and created a problem which requires the operation breakthrough. which requires the model cities program. et cetera. this specific amendment does  require that any housing be put in if the urban renewal project goes into an area where there is housing. but if the project goes into an area with housing and tears down x number of units. yes. as a part of the plan then that number of units would have to be replaced. there is shunting of the problem outside of the cities. it has to be handled on location. to those who would say the oneforone situation is restrictive so far as housing is concerned. i will say i believe it is a lot more restrictive for the person who is displaced from his home and has other place to go. this is very definitely a question of priorities. the relocation provisions under our present urban renewal act do  create any more housing. all this does is to postpone the problem. and the backlog of housing units required just goes on the upswing.
. i might add that naugatuck valley is an ecoically stricken area of my state with tremendous unemployment. yet. there was money from the unfortunate for the even less fortunate. at one point in the conversation. frank stolfi remarked that he hoped that such a project. which was  unique to waterbury. might be adopted on a national scale. the secretary replied that he had seen many instances of a particular program working fantastically well in one area and  in aher. this because the success of that program depended on the individuals behind ittheir drive. their devotion. their spunk. lacking those particular people. the program had guarantee of duplicating success. the message then is that dedication to great causes. great reachings out. rely in the united states today more on individual than national conscience. however. the masonic home and hospital. and projects like it. is in ecological terms "an endangered species." why. because the nation is in the grips of a national selfishness rather than a national caring. and that is what i came home to talk with you about today. like the civilian who bought his way out of the civil war draft. too many feel that by the payment of taxes we are quits of our obligations to that great concept called the united states of america.  only do many feel quits but actually expect the united states to maintain them in the style they have dreamed about rather than they maintaining the united states as the nation it was dreamed to be. todays nation is in a mood of "ive got mine and the hell with everybody else." i think it is time we analyze in this chamber and throughout the nation whether in fact i got mine or somebody else did. because the future depends on ackledging the hard truth that our own contribution is only one of many that have brought so many americans to a good life. it is because americans have always lived for somebody else that we have derived a strength and result. far beyond our actual numbers and resources. i liken our history to a bucket of water filled to the top. add only an eyedropper of water each day and it remains full. do hing and the process of evaporation soon evaporates the water and leaves the bucket as an empty. rusty pall. this bucket of national caring. full over the years. today is going down under the heat of national selfishness. e of us can get away with the "let them do it" dodge. we are "them." we are  just second or third or fourth generation italians. english. polish. irish. germans. that is a nice thing to be. it is a happy thing to recall. that brings warm memories. but it is a little tough to admit that everyone of us in the chamber. in the galleries. and outside are also second. third. and fourth generation uneducated. unfed. unhoused. uncared for. untrained. that is a recollection that we all like to go ahead and forget. however. it is true. and we have been able to forget about it because someone else made sure we did  have to live with it. let me put my hand on a few raw spots in todays america. at some point in our history a young nation determined that a decent roof over every mans head was essential to a nation that was the embodiment of hope. and it was understood that in order to reach that goal governmental participation was a necessity.  of late some of these governmental housing projects have  acquitted themselves well. they have. for a variety of reasons. become eyesores. so much of the country today has started to turn its back on this crucial investment in human dignity. to that i respond that most public housing projects of the fifties and sixties look like federal penitentiaries. there is open space for children to play. they have to go clear across the city to find a place to play any sport. they are distant from decent educational facilities. yet we wonder why the public housing projects failed. goodness has  failed. the goodness in each of us. it is to say that we have learned we can do better... i believe in the original hope that every man. woman. and child in this country deserves a decent roof over his head. i am just more certain we can do it right. for those of us who have paid money for the roof over ourheads. this is our time to work for that reality for others.
. i hope that we shall be successful in taking this first step this year. by beefing up these state agencies on an experimental basis. we will be in a position to consider a comprehensive program of support for state housing activities next year. i ask unanimous consent to have my amendment printed in the record.
 suggested such an approach in the state of the union message. it is here near reality in either the executive or legistative branches. it is important to e hat in response to huds extensive experimental housing allowance programs. the committees bill authorizes the secretary to make contracts for housing assistance payments of up to $43 million per year for a 10year period. thus. while i am sympathetic with certain aspects of the administrations approach and while i recognize certain weaknesses in the present programs. i am  convinced we will be able to meet our housing needs without some form of production incentives. the housing and community development act of 1974 represents a concerted effort by the committee to formulate effective housing policy and develop a constructive approach to meeting the housing problem in the united states. though the committee reauthorized the existing subsidy programs. new and significant shifts in housing policy are incorporated in the omnibus housing bill. one new endeavor adopted by the committee was a program which i introduced designed to strengthen the activities of the state housing finance agencies. this proposal. which is title vi of the bill. would authorize federal guarantees and interest subsidies on taxable bonds issued by approved state housing finance agencies. i commend the distinguished chairman of the committee for initially offering this financing approach in the original housing bill. s. 2182. at the present time. state agencies raise their money by floating these taxexempt bonds and use the proceeds of these bond issues to make mortgage loans at below market interest rates. with the adoption of my amendment. state housing finance agencies will have additional financial muscle to stimulate housing production. my principle concern was to carve a middle ground between construction oriented programs and the income maintenance approach. title vi would provide some form of production subsidy. though a shallow one. while allowing the states flexibility to coordinate this form of assistance with other approaches. such as a housing allowance program. the program would stimulate the housing industry with the potential infusion of $2 billion in "frontend" construction money. this would mean the development of approximately 100.000 housing units. with the unemployment figures constantly rising. the provision will mean the creation of roughly 100.000 jobs to the beleagured home building industry. i might e that. unlike the present federal housing program characterized by complicated and burdensome requirements and lengthy processing procedures. the program  contained in the senate bill would be direct and straightforward. federal assistance would be available to "approved" state housing finance agencies. hud would make an initial findingor approvalthat the operations of state housing finance agency are consistent with stated national objectives: that it operates in a state where there is a need for housing. that it has a housing program emphasizing the needs of low and moderate income and of displaced families. that it has established priorities for housing assistance consistent with state and local plans and programs for community renewal. and that it has adequate administrative capabilities to use the federally guaranteed funds effectively. provided that a state housing finance agency continues to meet these national objectives. it would be eligible for federal assistance. the decisions about specific loans and individual projects. the processing of applications. and all the other questions and approvals would be made at the state level. huds only role would be to assure that funds raised on the basis of federal guarantees and bond interest subsidies were used consistent with these national objectives. in conducting the annual audit and review procedures as outlined in section 601(d). the secretary is free to perform his own financial audit of these agencies. however. for example. as in my own state of connecticut. the state agency presently commissions an independent firm to conduct thorough independent audit with the findings presented to the gover and legislature. if deemed appropriate. the secretary could review the financial analysis already available from other independent sources in his determination of whether a state agency still complies with the requirements of subsection (d). obviously. if the secretary is  satisfied with the existing audit. he is empowered by this provision to conduct his own analysis of the financial condition of the agency. i think that this approach. this emphasis on the state role and state decision and state administration of housing programs. will lead to the production of more housing. faster. moreover. i believe that this approach is consistent with more responsive government. closer to the people. this approach envisions a new partnership between the federal and state governmentsa partnership which gives the states the power to select the ways within broad categories that federal resources will be effectively allocated in order to best meet the housing needs unique to their particular area. by entrusting this greater assistance and less interferenceand by eliminating unneccessary redtape. more housing will be built with our limited funds. while the adoption of this program of providing. for the first time the direct federal assistance to state housing finance agencies represents a significant first step toward developing an effective federalstate partnership in the housing field. there is much more to be done. i intend to continue to develop additional forms of federal assistance to state housing agencies. the present stalemate in housing has brought us to a point where a fundamental decision must be made concerning governments future role and commitment to meeting the housing problem. the continuing need for housing production requires a continuing role for government. certainly. there is a need for reform in that role and for improvement in our housing programs. but. we can leave to the private sector alone the achievement of the national commitment that we made 25 years ago. to provide every american with a decent home and suitable living environment. public leadership must work for a balanced national housing strategy. combining adequate income with appropriate production incentives.
. i rise in support of the conference report of the housing and community development act of 1974. as a member of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. i am well aware of time and effort committed to the adoption of an omnibus housing bill this year. i commend the chairman for his leadership and resolve as he guided this critical bill through the long and difficult legislative process. in january 1973. the administration abandoned all subsidized housing programs. condemning them as wasteful and inefficient. since that time. more and more americans are seeking decent housing. and discovering that this de-
. i would just use this occasion to read a upi report which just appeared on the wire which states: washington.-housing stirts in october dipped to their lowest level in nearly five years. the census bureau said today. starts were estimated at 1.124 million units at an adjusted annual rate. it was the lowest since 1.085 million units in january 1970. "i think it will be a long and cold winter for us." said michael sumichrast. chief ecoist for the national association of home builders. sumichrast said he expected unemployment in the building trades to rise from its current 12.2 per centmore than double the national rateto about 16 per cent by january. the census also said permits for new construction for homes. duplexes and apartments plunged to an annual adjusted rate of 802.000. the lowest since december 1966. when the annual adjusted rate was 743.000. sumichrast said the new data is "pretty much what we expected. its going to be aher four or five months of the same but we think it is just about to level off at a rate of about 1 million units." i think it clearly illustrates the disastrous circumstances that exist in housing in this nation at this time. the senate appropriations committee. in its report on this bill. expressed sharp disappointment that the department of housing and urban development has  moved more quickly toward launching this new program and initiating a request for this needed startup funding. it called upon the department to move ahead full speed. i strongly endorse what the committee said. for reasons i will discuss in a moment. i am urging that the congress provide this essential funding for section 802 . so that early commencement of this program will  be delayed because of the time that could later be required in order to complete action on an appropriation. there is one thing that should be made clear at the outset about this proposed appropriation. this appropriation. unlike most others. is expected to result in net revenues to the federal government. rather than net expense. in short. it will have a positive rather than negative longterm budgetary impact. the appropriation is to be used for federal interest differential payments of up to 331/3 percent of the interest payable on bonds and other obligations which state agencies elect to issue on a taxable rather than taxexempt basis. when a state agency issues a taxable obligation supported by such interest differential payments. rather than a taxexempt obligation. the u.s. treasury department estimates that the additional tax revenues that the federal government will realize on the taxable obligation will exceed the interest differential outlays by roughly 20 percent. in addition to the interest differential payment authority for which this appropriation will be used. section 802 also authorizes federal guarantees of taxable obligations issued by state housing and development agencies when the proceeds will be used for programs to revitalize slum areas or to provide housing that is needed to support such programs. these two authorities may be used either independently or in conmlination. state agencies that are eligible under section 802 are principally engaged in financing housing for low. moderate. and middle income families as well as in broader development programs. they are an outstanding example of the kind of assumption of responsibility by states in these fields that we in the congress have long been encouraging. these state agencies finance their programs  with appropriations but with funds they raise through borrowings in the private capital market. section 802 is intended to help them finance their programs by enabling them to offer their bonds  only in the taxexempt market but also in the much larger taxable market. there are  some 30 states which have state housing finance or development agencies. aher four or five are actively considering the creation of such agencies. seven or eight of these agencies are well established and have been fully operational. most. however. were created during the past 5 years and were just moving toward full scale operations when they were hit by the moratorium on federal housing assistance that was imposed by the administration in january of 1973. these state housing programs were largely brought to a halt by the moratorium.  that the moratorium has ended with the enactment with the housing and community development act of 1974. they find themselves faced with the extremely tight money and credit market which can make it difficult for them to raise the needed capital at an acceptable cost. although many of these state agencies are relatively new. and despite the problems of the moratorium and the credit squeeze. these agencies have already come to play a major role in providing urgently needed housing for the lower income families of our nation. these agencies have already developed some 150.000 units of housing. representing an aggregate investment of roughly $4.4 billion. they produced 29 percent of all of the housing that was developed under the section 236 program during the past 5 years. as you k. that was the period of highest production of lower income housing in our nations history. along with this production record. they have earned a reputation for effective professional management of their programs. for producing good quality housing that is well managed and maintained. and for responsiveness in meeting local needs for housing and for the preservation of neighborhoods that are threatened with decay. these state agencies  have aggregate borrowing authorizations of over $11 billion. if these authorizations are put to use. this could do much to help ease the current drought on mortgage money for lowcost housing and indeed for virtually all housing. the funds that state agencies could raise with the assistance of this appropriation would be sufficient to finance the construction of approximately 60.000 units of .housingroughly onethird the total amount of lower income housing that was produced in this nation in 1973.  that the federal government is back in the business of providing assistance for lower income housing. hud has made clear that it expects these agencies to play an even larger role in carrying out the future federal housing assistance program. to do this. these agencies must be able to raise the capital that they need for loans for housing that is also to be assisted by federal subsidies. section 802. if it is promptly funded and implemented. can be of immediate help to them in obtaining this needed capital so they can do their part in translating the new federal housing subsidy program into early. substantial production of desperately needed housing. i hardly need emphasize here the importance of bringing about a prompt resumption of housing production to meet the needs of lower income familiesas well as to give a boost to our severely depressed home construction industry. we are concerned both about the dual problem of inflation and of recession. more particularly. the increase in joblessness. . we are going to sit in this body and talk about public service jobs in the time of recession. for heavens sake. why  go ahead and put the money into housing without resorting to that. why  put it in those areas of government involvement which of themselves produce jobs. certainly. hing produces more jobs than the housing industry.  just construction of that particular unit. but the ripple effect it has upon so many other areas of the ecoy. construction starts on lower income housing have sagged almost 60 percent below the previous annual leveldown from 427.000 units in 197071 to roughly 186.000 units in 1973. that is a sad commentary on a congress. on a nation. on its people. that made a commitment to a decent roof over every americans head. that is a much sharper drop than the severe 45percent decline in overall housing production during that period. and means that the poor are bearing a disproportionately heavy share of the burden of the recession in housing. as. indeed. they do in the recession with everything else. this is happening at a time when the need for housing for lowincome families is great and growing. a recent harvardmit study found that 13 million families. 20 percent of all american families. can afford decent housing in the present market. small wonder we have a recession. i would like to k what we are doing of a positive nature in this country. with the possible exception of hoping that in time itself our ecoic problems will work themselves out. on top of this. the annual rate of formation of new households that need housing is up 60 percent over the rate of the sixties. the drop in housing construction has of course contributed heavily to the unemployment rate of over 11 percent in the housing and construction industry. almost double the overall national rate. and to the rapidly growing number of failures among businesses in that industry. when this matter was brought up in the appropriations committee. secretary lynn of hud indicated that he was sympathetic to section 802. but that. since hud had  proposed this provision. they wanted to study it before making a decision on requesting funds and starting implementation. i take for granted that the purpose of the study is to complete the work necessary to launch the 802 program.  to consider shelving these new authorities that have just been enacted into law. i trust that hud will  respond to our urging that it move promptly to put the section 802 program into operation. in this connection i am informed that the council of state. housing agencies. whose members are state housing and development agencies. has established a working group of experienced seniorlevel state agency staff who stand ready to assist hud in any way they can in completing the preparations to implement section 802. i ask unanimous consent that a letter from the council of state housing agencies to secretary lynn. offering assistance to hud. be printed at this point in the record.
. i should like to respond by merely citing the record. there have been hearings on this particular appropriation. relative to this bill. but the entire concept and the amount of money itself have been gone over in detail in the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. with hud people sitting there. august was the time of passage. all summer long they had a chance to examine this legislation. i recall going back and forth on this aspect of the legislation. it is  anything new.  hud says that they need a couple of more months. they have had since the end of the summer to review section 802. what has happened to the nation since the end of the summer. the housing situation has gone from bad to worse. and the unemployment situation is getting there. also. i think the time has come for congress to call the shot. if hud continues to ige the directives of congress then the blame for the recession sits on their head. but we will have fulfilled our commitment. let us be candid. the decline in housing did  start with high interest rates. it really started when we abandoned in january 1973. by virtue of the moratorium. our commitment to a decent roof over peoples heads. people said that we can do without that commitment because it does  affect middle income or housing for the elderly. once we start down that road. it affects everybodypublic. private. poor. middle income. upper income. we are back here to work. we understand the problem in housing. we understand the joblessness. and we. the senate of the united states. are going to make a commitment. somebody has to start. seeing the way hud operates. i do  want any more of their studies. the entire concept. the entire funding. was gone over with hud present. so i would hope that we would renew the commitment in the best possible way. the state housing finance agencies have done hing but produce quality housing for americans. and i hope that today. on our first day back at work. we will recognize the problems by making a commitment of action
. i have had the opportunity to discuss this matter further with the distinguished senator from wisconsin and the distinguished senator from massachusetts. as i indicated. e of us is in disagreement as to the subject matter or as to the objective of this program. we have taken a significant step today. on our first day back. to attack these twin problems of housing and unemployment. to me. that is the psychological boost which was accomplished on the ground. it is necessary on the part of the leadership of this nation. i am more than pleased to cooperate with my colleagues in achieving this particular goal.
the senate could concentrate its efforts on the housing crisis and all of the rest of the monumental problems which confront the government of this country and to which the government of this country has  addressed itself. would that we would address ourselves to the rest of the problems with the fervor and the sticktoitiveness that we have employed on both sides of the aisle to the election in new hampshire. pass this amendment and we can do just that and as of this evening the people of the state of new hampshire will be able to go ahead and decide who it is that should represent them in this body. i really have hing further to say on this matter. i intend to continue to offer it as we proceed along the path of deadlock. a path which certainly. as i have indicated. does e of us credit. in the sense then of logic and fairness and of upholding our constitutional duty to resolve this matter. in the sense of due process. i request the support of my colleagues on this amendment
 is proposing. yet on this one issue. totally a political issue. they have managed to get all their muscle together. i think the nation would be a lot better off if they would use that muscle to devise alternatives on energy. to devise alternatives to the problems of the ecoy. to devise alternatives on housing and on transportation. i do  think that the present incumbent in the white house has all the answers. i think his solutions can be improved upon. but. oh.  they are unable to do that. but on a political matter. they are able to get it all together and sit here and try to rain through a decision which is patently unfair. patently biased. and patently iges the facts as they have been presented before this body. i suppose that is what is so discouraging to this senator. we came out of the box. here.  in the mind of being able to put up technical roadblocks. but. rather. to present situations that. on their face. were illegal. on their face were fraudulent. on their face involved terrible judgment. and. really. the vote did  change at all at all. as if there were a predetermined result. i think that is what really stands to the disgrace of this body. as i say. yes. i knew louis wyman when we served together in the house. but i am  out here arguing for him. i am arguing for a principle. the principle specifically is that we have given this egh scrutiny so that we ought to realize that we can do right by the state of new hampshire. people keep on saying. oh. the scott amendment or the weicker amendment. whichever one they mention. is premature. it was premature in january. when we had substantial accord on the difficulties that were going to be involved. then we put it up again somewhere around the beginning of june and. after 6 months. it was still premature. then. when we made certain criticism or selected some of the issues and started discussing them this past weekend. again senator brock and myself were called premature. yesterday we were called premature. but  the argument generally shifts.  it is longer premature. i heard the distinguished senator from nevada say yesterday that we have voted on this already. so why vote on it again. even though before we should have turned it down. because it was premature. ody wants to face up to the best way of doing things. it is too simple. it is too straightforward. it is too logical
. during the consideration of the first supplemental appropriations bill. the senate adopted an amendment which appropriated $25 million for the section 802 program. unfortunately. this provision was dropped in conference. at that time. hud stated that they needed more time to study this program. well.  nearly 1 year has passed. and hud is still reviewing this program. the council of state housing agencies have offered their assistance to hud in the development of regulations to implement the program. what has been huds response. delay. inaction. at this point. i would like to highlight an appropriate section of the senate committees report. in appropriating these funds. the committee intends that the hud secretary will prepare regulations and implement this program as soon as possible with respect to the provisions for interest reductions as well as for federal guarantee of bonds to be issued by states for the revitalization of slum areas and assist in the financing of housing for low and moderate income housing in connection with such revitalization. this strong report language makes it clear that the senate will  tolerate any more footdragging on this program. we need action.  further study. since the moratorium in 1973. the housing problems have increased. the backlog of need continues to grow and the capability for producing housing has diminished. it is my understanding that the administration is opposed to the hud appropriations bill. as reported out of the committee. one of the reasons the administration cites is the committees decision to fund the section 802 program. the council of state housing agencies. in response to hud criticism. presented a convincing case. in a letter to senator proxmire. their letter refutes the objections expressed by the administrations spokesman. i ask unanimous consent that this letter be printed at this point in the record.
. i recall full well in those early 1970s when the distinguished senator from wisconsin and i served on the banking and housing committee. at that time. he very graciously pointed out the slow erosion into hingness of. for example. our federal housing program in our nations cities. and he was rather severe in the language which he directed toward the republican administrations of that time for this erosion. . i appreciate whatever philosophical changes have taken place insofar as the cities being able to be taken care of by the states. or the states taking care of the cities. that has  always been the senators viewpoint. and i think correctly so. indeed. we can do the whole job as far as connecticut is concerned. we can do a large part of it. i hope that is where the emphasis should lie. as a republican. it is probably the one thing that binds us together. doing things at the lowest political level. where possible. but in the sense of  and the lack of urban policy. i am sorry. the cities can do it themselves. what will happen. as i said earlier. is that somebody will come in saying. "you can let boston. the great historical birthplace of our nation. go down the drain. you can let hartford go down the drain." that is way to legislate. do i want a bill to go through the committee process. to get everybody to come in to testify. whether it be the administration or congress.  i do  want a bill. and i will  sit here and continue to vote. 3 years . for indiges legislation for one city. for which congress believes only one city is experiencing and for which i believe many other cities are experiencing. i only want the facts.  money.  a share in this pie. i do  want to deny the pie to the other persons. but i think it is time somebody woke up and we legislate in a responsible way and  in an emergency situation.
the bottom line of just how effective she is is what we have in the way of an urban policy on the ground today. in this country. i have seen a great number of photographs of visits. if you will. and very little in the sense of housing and the many other things that are needed by the cities of this nation. i thank the distinguished senator from virginia for his very perceptive remarks and the nice compliments he threw my way. i say to the senator that i will make one pitch. if i may. for his vote on this matter. does the senator k why most of the urban senators are going to vote for this measure. because in their minds this is a precedent which might be used for their cities later. all my amendment does is attempt to be honest by saying we should have the true picture out there. rather than come in and try to cut up new yorks pie. i assure the senator that this is going to be voted for by urban senator after urban senator. because he will have it in his satchel to be used some time in the future as a precedent. i am saying that i do  think it should be a precedent. in my amendment. i am saying. "let us be honest. let us find out what the picture is in this country." i make commitment about what will be done in the future. i think it is more proper to address the situation that way. at least with respect to the reason for voting for it. i am  saying the proposition before us is  correct. but i am pointing out the reasons that are going to be behind the votes for this legislation.
. it is wonder that so many of this countrys housing programs have been such dismal failures. new housing projects tend to ige the simple fact that concrete walls do  livable housing make. it is simply  egh to have a leaking roof over ones head. livable housing means more: it means housing within a community environment that offers social and ecoic security and opportunity. to ige this and to focus only on the concrete walls is to doom any rehabilitation or development effort to failurewitness the pruittigoe project. therefore.  to invest the little extra necessary to promote a livable community.  just a housing bloc. to live in. risks losing the entire investment made. the administration has succumbed to a hazard of fiscal expediency. three million dollars is  too much to ask when the opportunities are so great. this is  too high a price to make life a little more livable for the most disadvantaged of americas citizens.*
. i  understand the justification for the budget cut as being the inadequacy of performance by htd and. i might add. coincidentally. the inadequacy of oversight by the congress of the united states. the fact is that the intent of the congress was right on the mark and the need existed. and the need still exists. but because pat harris and moon landrieu screw up over at hud is reason to go ahead and penalize those who do  have any roof over their heads. because the senate of the united states refuses to go and engage in its oversight function. the house also. making sure that we follow through on what it is that we pass in terms of legislation. is reason to stand up here and say either the need does  exist today. which it does. and ody is going to debate that. or that those to whom our efforts were directed should be penalized. this is in essence what is being said.  that this is  a good idea.  that the intent or the need does  exist. but it has been improperly administered. . i share in the articulated contempt for that. but instead of turning our backs on the situation and. therefore. those who need our special care. it seems to me we should make the program work. ody is being misled as to what the need is. conversion after conversion to condominiums. rent control laws so that apartment buildings are abandoned. repairs madeit is a disgraceful situation in this country. the statistics do  lie. we are at the lowest point in our history of the availability of rental housing. that is the reason for this amendment
. as a cosponsor of s. 506. i am pleased to speak in support of the passage of this legislation. these amendments are sorely needed to correct weaknesses in the fair housing act of 1968. although this law was enacted more than a decade ago. hud figures show that the practice of housing discrimination still exists widely across the nation. in acting on this legislation. it is important that congress provide a mechanism that will allow for fair and effective enforcement of federal housing discrimination laws. the house has proceeded toward this end by passing h.r. 5200 which would use administrative law judges to adjudicate housing discrimination complaints. although this proposed procedure has generated some controversy. the placement of these judges under the department of justice should provide an impartial forum for the resolution of these complaints. in addition. the house has moved to include coverage of the handicapped under this bill. i commend the house for responsibly addressing this issue. although s. 506 has given rise to some concern at the local level over the issue of zoning practices. it in way removes the power of local governments to issue zoning ordinances. furthermore. this bill would  give the secretary of hud the power to change local zoning regulations. clearly the need for the passage of this bill is urgent. twelve years ago congress acted to resolve the problem of housing discrimination. however. the resulting legislation was  adequate to deal with the sophisticated methods of discrimination which subsequently developed. we  have the opportunity to address this problem and to provide the tools necessarv to insure the effective enforcement of both the spirit as well as the letter of the law. the intent of h.r. 5200 is to insure eoual access to housing opportunity for all american citizens.  to override local zoning regulations or to make hud the accuser. prosecutor. judge and jury in discrimination complaints. i would hope that any controversial aspects of this legislation will be thoroughly debated and properly addressed. it is important that the senate proceed find responsibly address the loopholes in the 1968 fair housing act. as did the house. and pass h.r. 5200 in as strong a form as the bill reported by the senate judiciary committee.o
. the majority is willing to accept the amendment of the distinguished senator from south carolina. before acting on this amendment. i want to discuss the committees action. the committee restored an $80 million cut by the house for the construction of a new american embassyincluding chancery. residence. and staff housingin riyadh. saudi arabia. in december 1083. the ministry of foreign relations wvill formally open in riyadh. saudi arabia. at that time. the u.s. embassy and staff must be fully functioning. in march. the administration requested $82.1 million for the construction of an embassy complex which includes staff housing. the house denied all funds for this project. the current request of the administration is for $45 million to construct only the chancery and ambassadors residence. the staff housing project would be delayed until the fiscal year1983 budget. the subcommittee and full committeeon apnropriations approved $80 million to allow the department of state to go forward with the entire embassy complex. we rejected any proposal to delay construction because. first. it does  postpone the need. and second. it will result in immediate and substantial cost increases. i want to stress that if the ad ministration proposal to delay staff housing is agreed to. the minimum additional cost in 1983 will be $17.150.000. the administrations proposal to delay funding $35.8 million for staff housing results in net savings of $1.5 million in outlays in fiscal year 1082. thus. to save $1.5 million in outlays this year. it will cost us an additional $17.2 million next year. by supporting the house action and denying funds for th~e entire project. we. will save $3 million in outlays  and the project will cost us approximately $37 million more next year. while i am prepared to agree to the lower amount suggested. i feel it is important to explain why the decision of the committee was prudent.
. this amendment would correct an error in amendment  783. which i called up yesterday on behalf of the senator from florida . as mrs. hawkins statement in yesterdays record will show. the amendment agreed to was intended to raise the appropriation for the runaway and homeless youth act by $3 million. the amendment that i have sent to the desk. to which the senator from florida has agreed. would insert the correct amount in the bill.
matter what my personal feelings are. as you k i am opposed to aid to the contras. i do  want this money to come out of defense. i do  want it to come out of housing or transportation any more than i want it to come out of health. science. and education. which is my responsibility. i do  want it to come out of any of that. if we have the courage to pass the authorizing bill. we ought to have the courage to pass the money bill. otherwise. all it will boil down to is that we have the gall to pass the authorizing legislation and the cowardice  to do anything when it came to the money bill.
first of all. let me expand on the remarks made by the distinguished senator from west virginia who along with the miity leader. senator dole. has worked long and hard to bring this bill to the floor. the claim by the distinguished senator from new hampshire that this is the first opportunity he had to bring this amendment up does  ring true. we had joint resolutions of disapproval introduced by senator helms. this amendment was  tacked on to that. we had much other legislation here on the floor. the amendment was  attached to that. . as the distinguished senator from west virginia said. this is a matter of importance to the extent that it is one of the few opportunities that the powerful in this country have to exercise for the powerless that great trust of care that is put on our shoulders by the constitution of the united states. and our constituents. let us understand one thing. whether you are talking about washington. dc. hartford. ct. new york city. or los angeles. those people wandering around with their bags. collecting trash. those people sleeping nights on the grates. that is us. that is us. that is the united states of america. that is what is at issue here on the floor. we have time for big labor. we have time for big oil. we have time for steel. we have time for tax bills that give us all breaks. and believe me. we have time for everything. . how about the person who does  vote. who has  clout at all. whatever. we accomplish or . believe me. we do  have to worry. there will  be any praise or any retribution. this constituency is truly powerless. we have a problem in this country by virtue of directing our resources to many other areas aside from those needing our special care. we have a problem. this bill only touches upon it in the slightest way. with all deference to  only the senator from west virginia. i am a sponsor of this bill. it is an emergency measure. it does  address the real problem. the fact is that we have chosen for quite a few years   to engage in public housing. we have done everything we can to make our houses secure. but we have  seen to it that those who do  have a roof over their heads get one.  we are paying the price. yes. we thought it far more important to place our resources to purposes of death and destruction. rather than to invest our money toward the mentally ill. the mentally retarded. those ill from disease.  we are paying the price. all of a sudden. the problem has become so big it is visible. it is visible. that is the embarrassment to the united states of america. these problems have existed for a long time. but at least we made efforts that kept- the problem at a low level of visibility. . it is visible. finally. we are active with emergency legislation that is long overdue. i have problem with the distinguished senator from new hampshire in voting on his amendment. indeed. he ks as well as anybody else senator stafford from vermont and i stood up here and said salaries should  be $97.000. but $120.000. just as importantly. that amendment also had aher section. the $120.000 would be paid from taxpayers funds. and we would  have a salary of $97.000 and then an additional amount from hoariain other words. a great portion of our salaries paid by private interests in this nation. the distinguished senator from new hampshire cites through the medium of editorials such descriptions as "cowardly. deceitful. back door." i will tell you what is "back door"the hoaria the distinguished senator from new hampshire and the senator from connecticut receive. that is back door. and the fact he gives it to charity makes point as far as i am concerned. that is private money supplementing his salary as a public servant to all. back door. hoaria is back door. the senator ks that. so if we want to make sure this subject is on the table to the fullest extent then let us give the salary that is well earned. yes. i personally feel everybody should vote up or down. i think the suggestion is on excellent one.- let us have a freestanding resolution. but this elevation continually higher and higher and higher on a pedestal of morality while the cracks in the system remain there is wrong. i certainly can accept it on this bill. the issue. is perhaps maybe grist for the editorial writers who ige the fact that onethird to onehalf of the salaries of the members of this body are paid by private interests. that includes this senator. hoariums from various educational institutions. scientific institutions. various political groups or whateverit i. all on record as to where it originates. my amendment which two senators voted for. and which the senator from new hampshire voted against provides for a $120.000 salary and hoaria. if somebody wants to :make a career out of salary around here. be my guest. but i will tell you there is so much business to be done out there in terms of those who are relying on us. to give them the same opportunity and the same quality of life that all americans ho. they rely on us. yet we have  ground to a halt. i commend the good senator from new hampshire for wanting to express himself legislatively. for wanting to donate his hoaria to charity. but. you k. we do  operate usually as 100 separate individuals around here. it is a matter of policies of the united states. and i think the policies of the united states are best served by an honest. totally visible. abovetheboard salary and  just picking and choosing what we want to divulge in the course of our amendment or how we care to conduct ourselves personnally. i would hope.  1. that the distinguished senator from new hampshire would take advantage of the majority leaders offer. let us have a freestanding vote right here on the pay raise. problem at all. we can do it right . so we can get on with this bill. i am sure somehow this can be devised in a parliamentary way. it should be the order of business. then the poor and the homeless and the diseased and the mentally ill do  have to wait on the crusade of the senator from new hampshire. which i am sure. as i said before. is of great meaning to him. but he is only one person. the homeless we are talking about number in the tens of thousands. then. as i said. when it comes to the matter of salary. let us make sure that. we are talking about the same thing. salary increases. hoaria. that is  50 percent moral. that is .100 percent. and that is the way it ought to be
i will have part in setting the poor and sick and the uneducated and the homeless and the elderly and the young at each others throat in the arena. that is exactly what this amendment does. i oppose it.
. i rise today in strong support of h.r. 1158. the fair housing amendments act of twenty years ago. congress enacted the fair housing act of 1968 to end discriminatory practices in housing on the basis of race. color. religion. sex. or national origin. yet. 20 years later. housing discrimination still exists. the department of housing and urban development reports that over 2 million instances of housing discrimination occur each year. a recent survey by hud of 3.000 brokers and rental agents in 40 metropolitan areas found that blacks looking for a home to buy are likely to encounter discrimination about half the time. the statistics for blacks in the rental market are even more discouragingabout 3 out of 4 can expect to experience discrimination during the search process. the situation is similar for hispanics and worsening for asianamerican and families with children. the bill before us today will provide for more effective remedies for violations of the fair housing act. by significantly strengthening the enforcement mechanisms under the act. in addition. there are other segments of our society which routinely encounter discrimination in housing: families with children and individuals with disabilities. therefore. the amendments we make today will add these two groups to those protected under the nations fair housing law. i fully support these amendments. and would like to take a few moments to discuss the importance of this legislation for individuals with disabilities as we seek to reach our goal of equal access to housing every american family. congress has long recognized that it is in the national interest to integrate individuals with disabilities into all aspects of american life. this goal was made very clear in 1974 when congress enacted the white house conference on handicapped individuals act which stated: the congress finds that ... it is essential ... to assure that all individuals with handicaps are able to live their lives independently and with dignity. and that the complete integration of all individuals with handicaps into mal community living ... be held as the final objective. we have worked to attain this goal through enactment of numerous laws intended to increase the independence. productivity and integration of people with disabilities into .oclety. such landmark legislation as public law 94142. which mandates that all disabled children are entitled to a free appropriate public education in the least restrictive environment. has meant the end of segregation and discrimination toward handiu..pped children in our public schools. laws such as the rehabilitation act and the developmental disabilities act address other barriers faced by disabled individuals in their effort to lead lives of dignity and independence. the enactment of the civil rights restoration act in march restored the vitality of section 504 of the rehabilitation act. and made it clear that congress will  permit tax dollars to subsidize discrimination against disabled persons. i have also introduced legislation to provide comprehensive civil rights protections for disabled individuals that are parallel in scope of coverage to existing civil rights laws protecting miities. and just last month. the committee on labor and human resources approved the "techogyrelated assistance for individuals with disabilities act of 1988." to assist disabled individuals to acquire and use techogical devices that may be necessary to allow them to move from dependence to independence. each of these laws weaves an important thread in the fabric of protections which people with disabilities deserve as citizens of our great nation. each in its own way addresses barriers created through igance and stereotypes about people with disabilities that have resulted in their being treated and portrayed as a separate and inferior class of citizens. but in spite of these laws. we are far from ending the discrimination faced by disabled individuals. indeed. the national council on the handicapped. in its report on the threshold of independence issued in january of this year. has stated that discrimination is "the number one problem faced by people with disabilities in our country today." and a major area where such discrimination exists is that of housing. the council further states that housing is a "major prerequisite to social integration and living independently for persons with disabilities." since people with disabilities are  currently included under the fair housing act. they are frequently turned down for apartments or houses because a landlord or owner objects to their disability. blind people are denied housing and told that they would be a fire hazard. mentally retarded people are rejected as unfit tenants. people who use wheelchairs often find that they are unable to locate any accessible housing whatsoever. and deaf pesons seeking housing find that landlords are often unwilling to make any effort to communicate with them. these barriers to accessible housing within the community make our efforts to move individuals out of institutions much more difficult only at the cost of human suffering. but at significant ecoic cost. as well. while there is great variation in the costs of institutionalization. generally those costs are assumed to be between $30.000 and $100.000 per year per person. yet the expense associated with accessibility features for new housing are relatively small. estimates are that at most. such requirements would entail less than 1 percent of construction costs. we are told by the national association of home builders that they can build in features to ensure accessibility at very little costand that cost can be expected to decline ever further once such modifications become standard in the housing industry. specifically. the bill provides that it is illegal to discriminate in dih sale or rental of a dwelling on thr basis of the handicap of the buyer or renter. under the legislation. it would be discriminatory to refuse to permit. at the expense of the disabled indlvajual. reasonable modifications necessary to afford that person full enjoyment of the premises. it would also be prohibited. as of 30 months after the date of enactment. to refuse to make certain newly constructed dwellings accessible and adaptable for individuals with handicaps. the major barrier faced by people with disabilities todaydiscriminationis  going to go away until we find ways to end their segregation and isolation from the rest of society. and the attitudes. stereotypes. and misconceptions of the rest of society about people with disabilities are  going to change until those of us without disabilities have the opportunity to be around people with themas classmates. as colleagues. and as neighbors. with the passage of the fair housing amendments act of 1988. we move closer to that goal by ensuring that discrimination against people with disabilities in housing will rto longer be tolerated. longer will disabled americans be told. in their quest for a place to live. "sorry. this property is  available." when what is really meant is that "this property is  available to you." i urge my colleagues to reaffirm their commitment to the principle of fair housing for all by supporting this important legislation.
. i believe that if we are to halt urban decay. we are going to have to examine fully the opportunities that a partnership between business and government can afford for largescale advances with relatively modest direct federal investment. we are  just dealing with blighted buildings. what is needed is a birth of "human neighborhoods." the very finest brick and mortar can revive the hardcore problem of the urban ghetto if the people who are affected are  involved in the planning and do  participate in selfhelp programs. the national league of cities rightly asserts that the problems of cities are "the nations  1 domestic challenge." the needs of 70 percent of americans who live in urban areas can be attacked. as one of the administrations own stalwarts said. by being "frozen and afraid of new ideas" in urban affairs. the five cities which make up much of the 29th congressional district of new york are all faced with social and ecoic pressures resulting from such factors as overcrowding. poverty. unemployment. dependence on welfare payments. low educational and skill levels. poor health and disease. and crime and delinquency much of the cause for this human and physical blight results from the inadequacy of decent. safe. and sanitary lowincome housing in our urban areas. the plain facts are that all the federal and state programs  in existence to provide low- and middleincome housing have  been able to make an appreciable dent in the hardcore problem of the urban ghetto. these programs should continue. of course. what i am proposing  is that we use modern financial and taxing techniques to enlist the entire community in this fight. which should be the concern of the entire community. i hope that the series of urban rehabilitation and tax incentive proposals i introduce today will provide the incentive for owners of buildings to rehabilitate them. provide local housing authorities and city government with financial and taxing techniques to increase efforts in rehabilitation. and make it easier for a joint effort by federal. state. and local governments and private enterprise to expedite the job of rebuilding the cities. with a new look in seeking solutions in the neighborhood. city or metropolis. i am confident our officials and citizens can work together to improve the quality of urban life.
. in view of the fact that the subcommittee on housing and urban affairs of the committee on banking and currency will begin hearings next week on several housing bills. it seems appropriate for me to place in the record at this time a penetrating and provocative article about the problems of our cities and possible solutions to those problems. written by one of the ablest reporters of the christian science monitor. george favre. mr. favre covered the boston "city hall beat" and urban affairs generally for the monitor during the time that i was attorney general of the commonwealth of massachusetts. he has an extraordinarily deep insight into the problems of urban america. those who read his almost daily articles in the christian science monitor while he was stationed in boston were well informed  only about daytoday developments but. even more important. about the longrange problems of the city and the new ideas and concepts which could be brought to bear on these problems. in his dispatch from philadelphia of may 11. mr. favre explores in some depth the partnership which in some municipalities has been welded between government and private industry. he makes particular mention of the constructive proposals which the distinguished senator from llis has made and which will be considered by the committee and congress in the coming months. the philadelphia situation which mr. favre describes could as well have been written about boston or any american city. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. it is past time that the federal government took the initiative in the struggle to achieve equal rights for all americans. today we have a golden opportunity  to talk about implementing our commitment to equal opportunity for all americans. but to act. it is an opportunity for the senate to let business. industry. and the country k that fair housing is a sina qua  for all future projects of the federal government.
all that the senator has said is true. the senator from massachusetts is well aware of the fact that the illis house did report open housing legislation and that it was defeated by the senate in that state. however. the fact remains that this is a new project. we are   dealing with projects which were granted by the federal government prior to the 1964 civil rights legislation and prior to the policy which was adopted by the federal government. that there be open housing where federal projects are concerned. illis was well aware of this fact. the state government knew at the time it defeated open housing legislation that illis was being considered for this particular project. it further knew of the 1964 civil rights act and the subsequent policy of the federal government. in the face of this kledge. the senate of the state of illis defeated open housing legislation. it would seem that they were saying. in effect. "we do  care if we do  get this particular project. it is more important to us that we do  have open housing in the state of illis." this. of course. does  apply to the house. but it does apply to the senate. and as a result it applies to the legislature because legislation was  passed in june of this year. therefore. they are. in effect. asking the federal government to turn its back on a change in american society which has been coming for a long time. to turn its back on the 1964 civil rights act and all that it has signified. and to reward the state of illis for doing the same. we are  only talking about the towns of weston and wheaton. for these are relatively small towns. we k they will  accommodate all of the people who will have to go to live in illis in order to participate in this project. negroes living in ghettos in chicago. if they are able to obtain jobs in this project. will have to travel the long road to get them. travel is expensive. and the expense and inconvenience will deprive many of them of the opportunity to get these jobs. the vicious cycle is repeated over and over again. to argue that it might affect the tva. or projects in florida. or other states. where installations were developed before 1964 is an unfortunate and specious argument. because we are talking about new projects and a new policy that should be in effect in this country. i am very hopeful that the amendment will be adopted. we have an opportunity. and we should avail ourselves of it. to insure that federal money shall  be spent on projects which will  give to all americans an equal opportunity for the jobs created. and the equal opportunity to live in housing in the vicinity of those jobs. i am certainly sympathetic to the other issues which have been raised by the distinguished senator from illis. because i k how he feels about civil rights legislation. i k how much this project means to the state of illis. but i think the principle here is such an important one that we certainly should. at this time. take the opportunity and see that federal money. from this day forward. does  go into areas where there are open housing laws already on the books.
i thought i made it quite clear that i am  suggesting that the government  appropriate any more money. say. to cape kennedy in florida. or that the government  appropriate more money for the tva project in tennessee. i made that clear. i am  suggesting that at all. i am merely distinguishing the two. in saying that this will be a new project in weston. one which has never been started. one on which many states in this country placed bids. i am saying that the awarding of this project should  be made to any section of the country. to any city or any town. where there are open housing provisions.
i am sure that the senator is well aware that there was a site committee and that the committee made an exhaustive studyi think the study lasted some 9 monthsand that there were several classifications. finally. the number of sites was narrowed down to six. at the time the committee made its final report on these six sites. of which weston was one. the committee was also well aware of the policy of the federal government as expressed in the 1964 civil rights act. and well aware of the policy of the atomic energy commission respecting open housing. . it would appear that when the committee made its report. open housing legislation was then pending before the illis legislature. the committee had reason to believe that this legislation would be adopted by the state of illis but. in fact. the legislation was defeated. does the senator from illis have any evidence. any statements. any documents. which would indicate that since the defeat of open housing legislation by the illis legislature the committee has still held out that weston is the one and only unique location which it must have for this particular project.
the senator from illis has suggested that because an ordinance has been passed in weston. this would assure adequate housing or open housing as far as this project is concerned. does the senator have any information as to what enforcement powers are involved under the ordinance of weston.
i thank the senator. however. i must point out that housing for lowincome families and moderateincome families is one of the greatest needs in the country today. i think we are agreed on that point. in 1949. when this legislation was passed. it was hoped that we would be building as many as 60.000 units per year. the same rule of ecoic risk as opposed to acceptable risk applied at that time. and it appears to me that it was the intent of congress to make housing available for lowincome and moderateincome families who. in the past had  been able to obtain money from the conventional banking institutions. these persons could. under the new law. go to fha and have fha guarantee repayment of the money. so that they could begin to have decent housing in which to live. if congress had  intended for fha to assume some of the risk. it would have had need to create and to pass this legislation. when fha began to put the red lines around certain areas. as the distinguished senator from minnesota has so graphically described. it was red lining the very areas where the need was greatest. the very areas. in my opinion. where congress intended fha to be most effective. and where fha has  been effective. with this in mind. 6 years seems to be an unreasonable period of time in which to see the construction of only 40.000 units under this particular section 221 (d) (3) program. forty thousand units in 6 years. in my judgment. is a pitifully poor performance. it seems to me that this number of units might have been constructed in new york city alone and  even been iced. to say hing about the other areas around the country. i believe the senator is correct that many factors have contributed to this situation. the attitude of pha. has been described as conservative. i do  wish to get involved in a discussion of the conservative versus liberal attitudes of the housing authority. i only think fha should have performed its task within the confines of the letter of the legislation that was passed by congress. did they misinterpret the intent of congress. did they really feel they were  to assume the risk. did they believe that it was necessary to erect barriers to profit sponsors. such as the 100percent bonding controls. which it is difficult. even impossible in many instances. to achieve. the language which i have pointed out in my remarks today would certainly indicate that fha was holding the profit sponsors to an assumption of financial risk. are these religious. civic. and labor organizations really in a position to assume such risk.
if they are . does this. then.  mean that the program is going to fail. and if the program fails. does that  mean that millions of people will still have to live in poor. dilapidated. and deteriorating housing throughout the country. i am hopeful that the optimism which the distinguished senator from minnesota has expressed this morning will be fulfilled. and that we will see an improvement in fha. i do  like superstructuring. if this is the agency that is to do the job. let us clarify its authority and have it do the job it was intended to do. we can afford to wait any longer to build housing in this country for low- and moderateincome families. we have waited too long already. we are plagued by civil disturbances in the major cities across the nation. i do  say that poor housing is totally responsible for the unrest. but i believe that housing is one of the causes. and i believe we should be getting on with the job of improving housing conditions. either with a corrected procedure through the fha. or through a new agency.
. this amendment is designed as a first and necessary step in bringing about a more efficient and productive administration of the rent supplement program. as well as later centralizing and streamlining the administration of all programs administered by the federal housing administration. whose prime objective is the production of low and moderate income housing. the first indication of the need for change is the record of the lowincome housing programs to date. the rent supplement program was established in august 1965. and funded in may 1966. it is anticipated that over 40.000 units will be constructed under the program. but to date. in a year and a half. only 38 new units have actually been built. only an additional 104 units are close to beginning construction. in the 221(d) (3) belowmarket interestrate program. administered by fha. the prediction in 1962. by the commissioner of fha. as to the number of units that could be built under the program was 60.000 units a year. in fact. the program has produced only 40.000 units in over 6 years. the federal housing administration was a vigorous and dynamic force 30 years ago in meeting americas housing problems. it is largely responsible for the creation of the suburbs and providing the opportunity for homeownership to millions of americans. its program of mortgage insurance for individual homebuyers represents 81 percent of its mortgage insurance commitment. and it is the primary focus of fha activity. this fact partly explains the divergence between the fhas promise and performance in the lowincome housing field. however. an agency which devotes fourfifths of its energy and attention to the appraisal of individual loans is  oriented toward meeting the special requirements of lowincome housing. as one former fha official put it: it is difficult for them to put on aher hat. so to speak. and administer the special social purpose programs which generally require processing without reference to the traditional ecoic soundness concept. the average fha processing time for a 221(d) (3) application is 18 months. and this is the average time in a -program that has 6 years of experience behind it. fha officials admit it should  take more than 6 months. yet the program to improve processing time is still an experimental program.  yet national policy. fhas ability to reorientate itself is questionable. in ember 1965. commissioner brownstein wrote to his regional offices: there has been a hesitancy on the part of insuring offices to make fha programs available in older neighborhoods. an automatic exclusion of neighborhoods merely because they are older can result in the shutting off of capital investments in these neighborhoods. in july 1967. commissioner brownstein again wrote to his regional offices: there has been a hesitancy on the part of insuring offices to make fha programs available in older neighborhoods.... the exact same language. which had obviously been iged. was used nearly 2 years later in directing pha offices to do the job they are most reluctant to do: to take a more vigorous approach to the revitalization of the center cities. the low and moderate income housing programs are so vital a part of meeting urban housing needs and bringing new life to our cities that these programs deserve the special and fulltime attention of a hud office that is solely committed to and responsible for the production of this much needed housing. coupling these programs with the also important task of construction of single family homes for middleincome families. within the same administrative agency. will continue to dilute the effectiveness of these programs. there should be a very clear focus on these programs so that their progress and effectiveness can be evaluated more readily by the office charged with their administration and by the congress and the people. the anncement that insurance companies are  willing to lend $1 billion for the financing of housing projects in the urban areas will be a valuable pledge if hud is able to accelerate its approach to writing insurance for the programs in which these companies will participate. the companies have stated that they are willing to lend money only for projects insured by the government. the key to progress will be the attitude that is taken toward issuing insurance commitments. a more dynamic attitude can be fostered. first by this amendment. and then by comprehensive legislation which would give a hud office full time responsibility for and a stake in low- and moderateincome housing. government insurance in the urban areas means the attraction of private capital. new housing. the creation of jobs. a new perspective and a new office is needed for the administration of low and moderate income housing programs to make sure that the programs established by the congress. work to the full degree intended by congress. as a first step. and as an incentive to the secretary to take action in this direction. the attached amendment is offered to the hud appropriations bill. while this amendment would deny the use of administrative funds to the pha for the rent supplement program. it would allow the secretary to use the funds for administration of the program more effectively. it would allow special direction to be exercised by the secretary so that steps can be taken to improve the record of the rent supplement program under fha. this need for a new perspective and the opportunity for independent direction is especially important in light of the insurance companies anncement that they are willing to lend up to $1 billion to federally insured projects. primarily under rent supplement. if effective use is to be made of this money. an accelerated effort must be made in the administration of lowincome housing programs in general. and the recent supplement program in particular. this amendment offers the opportunity for the secretary to create this new perspective. under this amendment. fha will still continue to process applications and issue insurance commitments. but the secretary would be able to exercise a new degree of direction over the progress of the rent supplement program. i believe that such a change would be welcomed by many within fha itself. i want to emphasize that this is a strengthening amendment to the rent supplement bill. that it will provide. in the words of one fha official. "a breath of fresh air." in the fhas control over the program. i urge support of this amendment as vigorously as i urge support and passage of the appropriations for rent supplement.
. in my comments i have raised some question as to the effectiveness of fha in the general field of lowincome housing and moderateincome housing. i think that my question is justifiably raised. i think it is supported by the overwhelming evidence. the fha has developed over the years as a gigantic insurance company. with reserves of over $1 billion. it was created for the purpose of giving insurance for individual home financing. and it has done that job magnificently. i compliment the commissioner on that part -of the job. but the fha is  setup to handle the social purpose legislation the senate is  considering. many prospective contractors will  even go to fha because they say that with all the redtape there they can get the results they want. psychologically. if for other reason. i think it would be good to have a separate division under hud. i intend to propose such legislation. but in the interim period i am only asking that the senate let it be kn very clearly that it is holding dr. robert weaver. secretary of housing and urban development. responsible for the effective administration of the rent supplement program. it is my opinion that fha and hud would be most grateful to have this arrangement. i think that fha would rather stay solely in the individual home financing business. an area in which it is doing so magnificently. i think that hud would like to have a separate agency for the rent supplement program. and i think that the secretary of hud would welcome the opportunity to exercise more influence at the policy level. under this amendment. fha will still have the responsibility for processing the applications. it will still have the responsibility for entering commitments. e of that will change under this amendment. we are talking about only a few people at the policy level. and that policy level should be changed so that the rent supplements which the senate is  passing uponand which hopefully congress will enact into lawwill k and direct the secretary to get the job done. the country is crying out for lowincome housing and moderateincome housing. the fact remains that this housing has  been built. let us therefore say to hud and fha. "get the job done. give the american people the lowincome housing and the moderateincome housing that congress has passed upon."
the remaining portion of the $40 million would certainly go to the fha without question. and that money would be used for the processing of applications and all of the other things that have to be done. i do  believe that my amendment authorizes the secretary of housing and urban development to create a new agency at this time. i think it would require separate legislation to permit the creation of a new agency. or even to permit the secretary to put rent supplements under aher existing agency of the department of housing and urban development.
i thank the senator. did i understand the distinguished chairman of the banking and currency committee to state that if i were to introduce legislation to create an agency to take over lowrent. lowincome housing under the department of housing and urban development. i would be given an expeditious hearing on that bill.
. i introduce a bill to create a moderate housing division in the department of housing and urban development. this bill is cosponsored by the distinguished senator from kentucky . the distinguished senator from wisconsin . and the distinguished senator from illis .
this moderate housing division would administer certain already established low- and moderateincome housing programs. the creation of such a division is essential if we are to give these programs the priority which they deserve. the 1960 census showed that 70 percent of the american people lived in urban areas. eightyfour percent of the 195060 population increase in this country occurred in urban areas. making the rate of growth for the cities 3 v2 times the national average. by 1970. our urban population of 125 million is expected to double to 250 million. the 1960 census also reported that 4 million urban housing units were dilapidated or deteriorating and without adequate sanitary facilities. three million more units were in need of constant repair. and an additional 2 million units had serious violations of housing codes or were dangerously overcrowded. this is the housing that was available for the 5.3 million americans who migrated to the city between 1950 and 1960. this is the housing into which millions more are crowded who have come to the cities seeking jobs and opportunities in this decade. the united states has long had the shame of the slums on its record. but the slums of the 1960s are in many ways worse than those we have kn before. longer is the slum a way station for a generation of immigrants. as the need for a good education has grown and the number of jobs available to the unskilled has declined. the slum has become a trap where generations repeat the cycle of poverty. the visible. tangible symbol of this trap is substandard housing. in the slum. a mans home is  his castle. it is his prison cell from which he escapes at every opportunity to roam the streets. where his chances of becoming involved in crime and delinquency are immeasureably increased. a public opinion survey taken this past august found that. in the minds of the slum residents themselves. lack of decent housing is the single most important reason for frustration and despair. as early as 1937. congress recognized that federal participation was necessary if the nation was to solve its housing crisis. it authorized the low rent public housing program. under which public housing projects are constructed and administered by local housing authorities using federal funds. by the end of 1966. 2.5 million people were living in 635.879 units of public housing. recently. the public housing program has benefited from the application of the socalled turnkey construction procedure. and the department of housing and urban development has begun to encourage the use of rehabilitated structures for public housing. cutting costs and preventing displacement. public housing. however. is clearly  the only answer to the nations urban housing crisis. aher approach to the problem is federal credit insurance. in 1961. congress authorized the 221(d) (3). below market interest rate program. for construction of low and moderate income rental housing. this program encourages profit sponsors to receive mortgages on new or rehabilitated housing projects from banks which are fully guaranteed by the government. section 221(h) of the national housing act provides a similar program for home ownership. in 1965. congress took a significant step forward with passage of the rent supplement program. under this program. 221(d) (3) housing is rented to tenants at a cost greater than 25 percent of their income. with the government supplementing the difference between that amount and the actual rent costs. still aher approach is that of the section 202 program which provides direct loans to profit sponsors for the construction of housing for the elderly. congress has endorsed and funded numerous programs for the construction of low and moderate income housing. but where is the housing. in 1962. the federal housing commissioner testified that he expected 60.000 units to be built under the 221(d) (3) below market interest rate program each year. the total of construction starts in 5 years is only 70.062. or a little over the anticipated number of units to be built in 1 year. loans to construct housing for the elderly have  equaled the amount appropriated for this program. despite the fact that the appropriations were nearly $100 million lower than the amount authorized. the fha was created in 1934. it has insured over $112 billion in mortgages and loans. under its programs. 81/2 million americans have become homeowners. and 1.2 million rental apartment units have been built. fha has "paid back" its original appropriation and has become selfsupporting. its reserves  total over $1 billion. fha was created for the purpose of insuring conventional mortgages. the main criterion for such programs is ecoic soundness. but in 1961 and 1965. the congress placed under its administration the 221 programs. and rent supplements. which are far from being conventional programs. these programs are basically social. rather than ecoic. in purpose. they are designed to help the ghetto residents take their rightful place in american society. there is a risk involved in building in the ghettos. but it is in the ghettos that housing is most desperately needed. rent supplements and the 221 programs are  giveaway programs. they are soundly conceived. and based on the assumption that with better housing will come greater hope for the future. more jobs. and more incentive to build a better life. but these programs require the administering agency to work  with business developers and speculators but with profit sponsors such as churches. fraternal organizations. and civic action groups. these people have had experience in building housing units and in dealing with federal bureaucracies. they must have help and constant supervision if these programs are to be successfully administered. under the present system. administration of the low- and moderateincome programs by fha has in many cases been characterized by endless delay and redtape. there has even been evidence of an unwillingness to undertake projects in the ghettos because of the risk involved. unreasonable requirements for bonding and for assumption of financial responsibility have been imposed on contractors and sponsors. philosophically. the fha is  oriented to administer the type of program conceived and authorized by congress for low- and moderateincome housing construction. as a result. those who would take the initiative in constructing this type of housing have come to regard it as a waste of time to go to fha with their plans. under these circumstances. it is wonder that profit sponsors have become discouraged and the record of accomplishment is meager. . this is a crucial time for our nations housing programs. the american people are  aware of the dire need for decent housing in impoverished areas. civic groups and organizations all over the country stand ready to participate in federal housing programs if they could be assured that the opportunities are available. and that an agency stands ready to give them full cooperation and assistance. the life insurance industry alone has pledged $1 billion to help rehabilitate the slums. just last week the subcommittee on housing and urban affairs of the banking and currency committee reported out a landmark bill. providing homeownership at subsidized interest rates. new interests. new techniques. and new programs are constantly being devised. i believe that only by establishing a moderate housing division in hud can we take advantage of the opportunities they represent. only with a moderate housing division can we achieve the goal annced by congress in the housing legislation of 1949: "a decent home and suitable environment for every american family."
 johnson made to his cabinet on april 25. 1965: "the federal service must never be either the active or passive ally of any who flout the constitution of the united states. regional custom. local traditions. personal prejudices or predilection are excuses.  justification. defense in this regard." but when you ask one of these gentlemen why. despite the 1962 fair housing order. most public housing is still segregated. he invariably blames it on regional custom. local traditions. personal prejudices of municipal housing officials. the upshot of all this is a federal attitude of amiable apartheid. in which there are villains. only "good guys". a world in which everyone possesses "the truth" (in the files. on the walls). but nearly everyone seems to lack a sense of consequences. in such a milieu. the first steps toward a genuinely affirmative policy of desegregation in housing are endlessly delayed. because one is prepared to admit they have  already been taken. "the rule is." said the queen to alice. "jam tomorrow. and jam yesterdaybut never jam today." in other words. our government. unfortunately. has been sanctioning discrimiation in housing throughout this nation. the purpose of this bill. as well stated by my able colleague from minnesota. is  to force negroes upon whites. it is to give black americans an opportunity to live in decent housing in this country. in the summer of 1966 and the summer of 1967 our nation witnessed its greatest shame. if we are to avoid a recurrence of this unsightly. unconscionable bitterness between white and black americans. it is encumbent upon our government to act. and to act . the most important action that we can take is to enable black americans to live in decent housing. and this amendment is intended to do exactly that. the fears and myths i have spoken about have been aired time and time again. whenever there was a debate on open occupancy. whenever there was an attempt by the federal government to move against discrimination and segregation. these same myths. these same fears. have been argued in debate.
. i am very proud that i come from a state that also has fair housing legislation. i certainly agree with my colleague. the senator from minnesota. that the fears that were voiced when this legislation was proposed were groundless. people are  living in integrated cities and towns in the commonwealth of massachusetts. giving a personal reference again. i  live in an integrated district in massachusetts. in newton centre. many other negroes live there as well. people of the jewish faith. protestants. catholics. all live together. without incident. and they do well. in washington. i live in tiber island. which is integrated. again without incident. it is difficult for me to comprehend how fears. as my colleague from minnesota has stated. still persist so widely. when actually there has been more integration in housing in the south than in the th. when one goes down south. he will find negroes and whites living side by side to a greater extent. i believe. than he will find in the urban centers of the th. this has gone on for generations and generations. and whites have  moved out necessarily because there was a negro living beside them. i believe that is just a myth. it is one of those myths that was dragged out to scare people about the problems they will encounter if there is integrated housing. for a moment. let us explore the reverse of such legislation. suppose all the negroes lived in all the cities of the nation and all the whites lived in all the suburbs. that is the trend as it is presently going. because there has been great migration to the great urban centers of the th. particularly. but even in the south more negroes have left the farms and have gone into the central cities of the south. and the whites have escaped and gone to suburbs in the south. as well as in the th. they are finding that the cities are breaking down behind them: great leadership. competition in schools. the tax baseall go down. as property devaluates in the urban ghettos. the problems of the central cities magnify to the point of explosion. as they did in 1966 and 1967. do we want a nation in which all the blacks live in the city and all the whites live in the country. i do  believe we do. i do  believe it would be helpful for this nation. i do  believe this nation will exist with an urban black population and a suburban white population. i believe that all we are saying in this amendment is that we are giving the opportunity for people to live where they want to live and where they can live. i believe it has well been pointed out that hing is being forced upon anyone. a person can sell his property to anyone he chooses. as long as it is by personal choice and  because of motivations of discrimination. this is sound legislation. it is good legislation. what is more important. it is needed legislation. it is almost what i would like to call essential legislation. in fact. i will call it essential legislation. i do  want to say what our commission on civil disorders will report. we hope to report on or before march 1 of this year. we have been studying this very problemamong other problems. to be sure. the problem of housing certainly has been one of the great priorities in that commission in finding the causes for the explosions of 1966 and 1967. so that we can prevent them in the future. so i am indeed very grateful to my colleague. the senator from minnesota. for his able presentation of the amendment and for the opportunity to work with him in the proposal of this essential legislation.
as i have previously mentioned. massachusetts has been a leader in fair housing. as attorney general of my native commonwealth. this legislation is of special concern to me. i recall that my distinguished colleague from minnesota was also the attorney general of his great state. we served together. as he will recall. in committees of the attorneys general of the nation. i k that the fair housing principle has the strong support of my constituuency. i believe that most americans are prepared to support the same principle. someone once said that most members of congressand i would say most members of our societyusually want to do the right thing. they just need a good excuse to do it. i believe that that truth was never more relevant than in respect to fair housing. the members of congress must k what is the right thing to do in this field. what better excuse for action could there be than the imperative pressure to relieve the unbearable tensions in the ghetto. to make it possible for ghetto residents. by dint of their honest labor. to earn and acquire a better home for themselves and their families. what higher purpose could any legislation serve than to restore the faith of all americans in the possibility of realizing the constitutional promises of equal opportunity for all citizens. that. . is the purpose of this proposal. in my opinion. the senate should  miss this precious opportunity to vindicate the aspirations of those who have. for so long. been denied a fair chance to acquire decent housing.
i thank the distinguished senator from michigan for his generous remarks. . if the order were extended to cover federally insured banks and savings and loan associations. perhaps 65 to 85 percent of the mortgages recorded each year would be covered. the important point is  the precise percentage. as long as a majority of the total mortgages is covered. in such a situation. other institutions would be under pressure to conform. if the executive order. for example. in 1964 had covered federally insured banks and savings and loan associations alone. 60 percent of the total amount of mortgage funds would have been affected. fha insurance and va guarantees of other types of loans would havi brought the percentage up further. in such a situation. the housing market would be substantially free from the effects of overt discrimination. the federal mandate to stop segregation is perfectly clear and remarkably strong. historically. it rests on the bill of rights. the 13th and 14th amendments and the nations first fair housing law. passed in 1866. which guarantees: all citizens of the united states shall have the same right in every state and territory as is enjoyed by white citizens... to inherit. purchase. lease. sell. hold and convey real and personal property. in recent years the federal obligation to guarantee freedom of housing to all citizens has been twice reaffirmed: first by the 1962 executive housing order and then by congress in 1964. the executive order barring discrimination in all federally assisted housing was a major breakthroughthe fruits of a 10year campaign launched and piloted by ncdh. two years later congress passed a civil rights bill and included the following stipulation under title vi: person in the united states shall. on the ground of race. color or national origin. be excluded from participation in. be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any programs or activity receiving federal financial assistance. this is the same paragraph the u.s. office of education invokes in its affirmative program to desegregate the nations public schools. especially in the south. thirtyseven school districts have had federal funds cut off. and aher 185 districts have had funds deferred. because they were violating title vi. as a result of usoes relatively firm stand. the proportion of negro children attending schools with white children in the deep south jumped this year from 6 percent to almost 17 percenta small but measurable achievement. especially when one considers that to reach only 6 percent compliance with the supreme courts 1954 desegregation ruling. the south took 12 years. hing remotely resembling this modest success has occurred in housing. rarely does hud withhold funds or defer action in the name of desegregation. in fact. if it were  for all the printed guidelines the housing agencies have issued since 1964. one would scarcely k a civil rights act had been passed. it is clear that hud has determined to speak loudly and carry a small stick. the results of this policy have been a cynical subversion of title vi. along with a thumbtwiddling complacency that has permeated all major agenciesthe housing assistance administrationpublic housingrenewal assistance administration and fha. here is a brief summary of their practices. the housing assistance administrationhaais responsible for 633.000 dwelling units in some 2.000 cities. estimates of the degree of segregation in public housing projects reach upward of 90 percent. and even haa officials peg the figure as high as 70 percent. moreover. their definition of "integrated" is so liberal as to include projects that are 9944/o percent whiteor black. in any case. it is safe to say that an overwhelming proportion of public housingthe only kind of housing in the united states directly built. financed and supervised by the federal governmentis racially segregated.
. i welcome the prospect of our distinguished miity leader bringing negotiations to a successful conclusion. i was personally reluctant and i did  sign the motion for cloture because i believed more time was necessary to. negotiate. discuss. and debate this important measure. i am very proud that members of my party. the republican party. have joined with members of the democratic party in working tirelessly in bringing about negotiations which could give to. this country important civil rights legislation in 1968. i want to take this opportunity to commend our distinguished leader for the time he has put into these negotiations. the prospects that they will be successful are certainly very heartwarming to me and. i am sure. to the people of this country who k the importance of civil rights legislation. particularly legislation involving housing at this time in the history of the united states of america.
the senator has mentioned senator mondales observation that there are 29 million singlefamily dwellings in the country. the senator also ks that one of the purposes of the proponents of this legislation was to cover as much of the housing in the country as possible. and to make fair housing legislation applicable to as many dwelling units in the country as possible. is it  true that it has been estimated that as much as 57 percent of the housing available on the market is singlefamily. owneroccupied housing.
yes. is it the senators contention that the words "bona fide" will eliminate the small builder or developer of housing who. under the senators amendment. would be able to. say. occupy one of the houses with his wife and son and daughter. both of whom were 21 years of age or over. and then to give a house to his wife and one to his son and one to his daughter. and then have them exempted so they could sell additional houses. and thereby still be in the business of selling and developing houses and be exempted from the discriminatory provision.
. i thank the distinguished senator from new york for his very kind and very generous words. i congratulate him for having authored and introduced. together with the senator from vermont . the manpower act which does go to the heart of the employment problem set forth in the report of the commission on civil disorders. this proposal would do a great deal in this important area. and we are very hopeful that congress will pass this important legislation. i certainly agree with my distinguished colleague that the five measures i have introduced today do  represent a package. they were filed as separate bills because other measures have been introduced in congress which. if enacted. would go far toward implementing the report of the commission. i think the senator is also quite correct that what we really need in the country today is an awareness of the social and ecoic ills that have plagued our nation. we also need a total commitment on the part of the american people to avoid the development and continuance of the two societies. as pointed out by the commission in its report. the senator from new york has certainly been in the forefront of legislation in this field for many years. i am very hopeful that congress will continue what it started to do this year by the passage. first by the senate and then by the house of representatives. of the important civil rights law of 1968. which law included the farreaching openhousing amendment. that amendment will grant to people in the country an opportunity to live in homes of their choice and will open up 80 percent of the housing in the nation. it was a milestone in the struggle for equal opportunities for all americans. again i thank my distinguished colleague. the senator from new york. for his contributions in this field. and for his participation in this colloquy.
. the housing and urban development act of 1969 represents a significant step toward achieving this nations goal of providing a decent home for every american. i commend my esteemed colleagues on the senate banking and currency committee and reserve special praise for chairman sparkman and senator bennett who contributed significantly to the development of this legislation. this legislation contains a number of important provisions. i will. however. only highlight those provisions which i feel deserve special attention. section 114 of the bill would authorize the government national mortgage association to purchase mortgages at par and sell these mortgages either immediately or at any other time at a price lower than par if necessary to meet the range of market prices. thus. gnma would have added flexibility in the timing of its sales. since gnma has available approximately $1.9 billion in unused authorizations. its authority under this section can  be used to produce a substantial volume of housing which will inure to the benefit of low- and moderateincome families. in the area of public housing. senator mcintyre and i introduced a bill earlier this year which should have a substantial impact on the quality of public housing. this bill is embodied in section 211 of the present act and would provide additional rental assistance in behalf of very lowincome tenants of public housing projects. thus. rental assistance payments would be available with respect to public housing and leased housing units to enable families of very low income to afford rentals with more than 25 percent of their incomes. information available from hud indicates that there are approximately 180.000 tenants in public housing projects who pay in excess of 25 percent of their income for such housing. this problem is further accentuated by inflationary pressures which are increasing operating costs considerably. many public housing authorities. unable to obtain additional funds to cover these increased costs. are looking to public housing tenants for their source of additional funds. but these public housing tenants are unable. in many cases. to meet prior payment schedules without allocating a disproportionate share of their income to housing. and they find it impossible to do so as their rental payments increase still further. we believe that public housing tenant should pay more than 25 percent of their income for housing. however. we certainly would encourage public housing authorities to charge considerably less where it is ecoically feasible to do so. where a tenants payments do  cover his proportionate share of operating costs. section 211 would provide rental assistance payments to cover the difference. the senate banking and currency committee has authorized $75 million annually to fund these assistance payments. i anticipate that these funds will be adequate to insure that public housing tenants pay more than 25 percent of their income for housing. section 206 of this act permits hud to cover a portion of the operating costs of public housing projects in addition to debt service--out of annual contributions. this new development should enable local housing authorities in 15 large cities which are  facing serious financial problems because of increased operating costs to rectify their financial affairs. once those public housing authorities which are operating at large deficits gain stability. and public housing tenants are longer charged a disproportionate share of their income for housing. our attention must turn to improving the quality of living in public housing. i should emphasize that i do  view public housing as the ultimate answer to the needs of lowincome families. on the contrary. i foresee the day when public housing as we k it today will be replaced by new approaches to lowincome housing. in the interim. however. we must  lose sight of the need to provide a decent home for persons who are unable to obtain aher form of housing. we must  allow the standard of living in these projects to deteriorate in anticipation of the development of more imaginative housing programs and the final implementation thereof. many public housing projects in this country fail to meet standards set forth in local housing codes with respect to maintenance and sanitation. in many locales. these housing codes represent the bare minimum required for common decency. and more rigorous standards are. in fact. required by hud. in many cities local housing projects fall to comply with either set of standards. the primary factor which mitigates against such compliance is the lack of funds to rehabilitate and modernize existing. older projects. although hud has allocated some of its modernization and rehabilitation funds to these units. its authorization has been inadequate because of the need to use most of the available funds to assist new projects. therefore. i submitted a proposal to the senate banking and currency committee which has been adopted in section 206 of this act. this measure would provide an additional $20 million authorization for annual contribution contracts for lowrent public housing programs. these funds will be earmarked for modernizing and rehabilitating existing. older projects. in addition. the committee authorized $25 million in new annual contribution authority which will become available july 1. 1971. one of the most significant steps taken by the committee was the authorization of appropriations through fiscal year 1972 for upgrading management and tenant services in public housing projects. one need only discuss the needs and shortcomings of public housing with persons possessing considerable expertise on the subject. to understand that sound management of these projects and adequate tenant services play a significant role in achieving balanced and successful projects. and sound management is greatly facilitated by provisions which make possible longterm planning. section 207 of the act was designed to respond to the need for basic tenant guarantees of due process. in formulating this provision. we took into account the need to insure the maintenance of tenants rights while avoiding cumbersome requirements which would impede the administration of public housing programs. thus. section 207 requires that public housing applicants be given an opportunity to be heard informally when their application has been rejected. in the course of such a hearing. it is envisioned that new developments might be brought to the attention of public housing authorities which had  been made a part of the decisionmaking process. the section would also require local public housing authorities to ify applicants determined to be eligible for admittance of the approximate time when a unit would be available. to the extent that this information can be reasonably determined by the local housing authority. this requirement would give the applicant some basis for making an informed judgment on how best to meet his household needs. it is hoped that the foregoing provisionsdesigned to improve the quality of living in public housing projectswill produce the desired results. the banking and currency committee has also requested that hud undertake a comprehensive study of public housing to evaluate subsidy requirements in terms of public housing authority incomes and rentpaying ability of tenants. the programs and services provided. and other activities related to public housing. this study. coupled with the recommendations of the douglas commission and task forces established by the nixon administration. should provide a sound basis for next years legislative proposals in this vital area. there are two other provisions which i believe deserve mention. section 212 of the act would provide for continuation of the section 202 program of housing for the elderly and the handicapped. this program was to have been phased out and replaced by the section 236 program. however. the program has proved extremely effective and efficient and deserves continuation. the committee also rejected the concept that section 221(d) (3) below market interest rate projects be converted into section 236 projects. the committee reasserted its mandate that section 221(d) (3) projects should  be discontinued until the committee is satisfied that the section 236 program is fully operational. the foregoing provisions. coupled with a substantial number of equally important provisions which have been touched on by my colleagues today. constitute an impressive piece of legislation which should improve the quantity and quality of housing in this country. we must  fail to realize. however. that we are far short of our goal. the goal of producing 26 million housing starts and 6 million federally subsidized units in the next 10 years will  be achieved unless our national commitments to these endeavors are greater in the future than they have been in the past. i am hopeful that my colleagues in the senate will give careful consideration to these goals and to the legislation which is before us today.
s commission on mortgage interest rates with respect to the ceilings on fha and va insured mortgages and loans. i have listened carefully to the secretarys statements on this subject and do  find them entirely persuasive. the dual system proposed by the commission was specifically designed to function during tight money situations and was  intended to be sheltered from the vicissitudes of the marketplace. i feel that additional discussion is required before this part of the proposal can be embraced by the committee. the public housing provisions which appear in the proposal represent a recognition of the critical problems which are facing lowincome families throughout the country. they also represent the manifestation of changes in congressional attitude on the subject of public housing. until last year there was a certain timidity on the part of hud officials to seek the sweeping inations which were necessary to stem the tide of deterioration in public housing. last year. however. congress expressed its willingness to address these problems and hud has seen its way clear in this housing package to meet that challenge. while the specific provisions must be scrutinized in greater detail. i commend the department on the development of a public housing homeownership program. i believe this proposal serves as an incentive to produce more lowincome housing and to provide greater family participation in the ownership and operation of these dwellings. we must  lose sight. however. of the fact that homeownership alone is  a panacea. homeownership must be coupled with the ability and wherewithal to maintain the structures and the opportunity to realize financial gains from the homeowners endeavors. thus. programs must be developed to educate new homeowners concerning maintenance and repair of their properties. as well as sanitation. recreation. and other family needs. with respect to conventional public housing. i believe the departmental proposal represents a recodifications of provisions which i sponsored as part of the housing and urban development act of 1969. it should be pointed out. however. that the department proposes to pay subsidies equal to the difference between a 2025 percent tenant income formula and the operating costs of the structure. whereas. last years legislation provided for subsidies equal to the difference between 25 percent of a familys income and operating costs. last years legislation did . however. require that tenant income contributions rise to a specified level as required in the present proposal. accordingly. it is exceedingly important to determine whether the levels set forth in the instant bill are realistic. added emphasis must be also placed on expanding the permissible categories of operating and maintenance expenses to provide for an improved standard of living which is so vitally needed in public housing. we can tolerate the conditions which have been allowed to persist until . we can allow additional time to pass before the needs of the poor are heeded. in this respect. i call upon the department to fully implement the provisions of section 212 and 213 of the housing and urban development act of 1969 which were carefully designed to prevent the condition of public housing from further deteriorating. new legislation is  needed to clarify authority which hud already possesses. last year. congress authorized $75 million in contract authority to: first. offset existing operating deficits. second. maintain adequate operating and maintenance services. and third. provide additional payments to make up the amount by which rental charges exceed 25 percent of a tenants income. to date. hud has failed to implement the second aspect of this subsidy program. in the past. congress has been accused of being negligent in failing to respond to the social needs of this country. in the case of public housing the administration alone carries the responsibility of committing resources to these worthwhile needs or turning aside. while the quality of life in public housing further declines. this choice does  involve the enactment of new legislation. but rather proper implementation of existing legislation. the proposals embodied in this bill will undoubtedly be modified during the legislative process and joined by still other proposals which are designed to improve the quantity and quality of housing throughout the nation. i can overemphasize the need to address these issues at this time. last week. the senate banking and currency committee adopted several proposals designed to provide increased money to the housing industry. this legislation will be reported to the senate in the near future. and i am hopeful that my colleagues will give careful consideration to the provisions contained therein. only through a recognition by congress and by the administration of the need to provide adequate shelter for low- and middleincome families alike will the goal of a "decent home for every american" be fulfilled.
. recently the housing association of delaware valley prepared a memorandum concerning sections 212 and 213 of the housing and urban development act of 1969. these sections represent a first step toward eliminating intolerable conditions which have been allowed to exist for far too long in public housing projects throughout the country. this memorandum accurately sets forth the conditions in public housing. the prospect for relief which was held out by these sections and the subsequent inaction on the part of the department of housing and urban development which has served to undermine their effectiveness. i anticipate that corrective actions will be taken by the senate banking and currency committee as it meets later this year to consider new housing legislation. in the meantime. for the edification of the senate and the public. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the memorandum be printed in the record.
. i introduce for appropriate reference three bills--cosponsored by the distinguished senators from new york . and california -dealing in part with the housing crisis which prevails in this country. the first bill consists of a number of technical amendments designed to clarify and improve existing programs. the second bill contains provisions which address the growing problem of abandoned properties and neighborhoods. and the third bill would introduce. on an experimental basis. a housing allowance program. last year. the senator from alabama
yes. the section was put in last year. but there was some question about it and some confusion among housing authorities across the country as to what it did mean and how far they could go. and that was the necessity for the clarification.
yes. . i rise today in support of the housing and urban development act of 1970. this piece of legislation represents aher milestone along the road toward producing a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family. i commend the distinguished chairman of our committee. senator sparkman. and the distinguished ranking member. senator bennett. for their untiring leadership in this field. in the short time since congress adopted the monumental housing and urban development act of 1968. they have guided two equally significant pieces of legislation through the senate and deserve the support and admiration of this august body for their efforts. one can question the commitment of your banking and currency committee to the goal of a decent home for every american family. i am hopeful that the senate will endorse the committee proposals and that house action will further ratify the farsighted proposals contained therein. most of these proposals were drafted by the committee and represent the product of intensive hearings relating to all aspects of housing production and management. i can fail to praise the assistance which secretary romney and his colleagues have provided regarding these measures. many of the programs were authored by hud or received its careful scrutiny prior to adoption. while the committee did  see fit to adopt the consolidation proposals presented by hud. it deferred action on these suggestions without prejudice until next year when interested parties will have had sufficient time to consider their impact. the committee did  differ with secretary romneys goal of streamlining and consolidating existing departmental programs. however. it was hesitant to embark on a complete restructuring of federally assisted housing programs at a time when the new hud area offices are being established and 1968 housing programs are being fully accepted. highlights of the 1970 bill include: clarification of an amendment to the 1969 act to insure that adequate funds are provided to improve public housing. added flexibility for construction cost ceilings in public housing. a national crime insurance program which complements state action. and urban growth and new community program which offers the hope of reordering our national urban priorities involving housing and land use. operating subsidies for mass transit to prevent the reduction of essential transportation services. and an experimental housing allowance program which may foretell the shape of future housing a significant contribution toward solving our urban needs and addressing inequities which have been allowed to exist far too long in our society. while each of these programs is extremely important and should be addressed in depth. i will confine my remarks to lowincome housing programs which are so vitally needed throughout the country. in doing so. i can ige pressing needs in all segments of our society for decent housing at reasonable costs. the emergency home financing act of 1970 which was recently adopted by the congress and signed into law should stimulate the production of muchneeded housing on a broad scale. this piece of legislation adds further impetus to the drive toward meeting our housing goals both in terms of production and in terms of the quality of housing being provided. on july 15 of this year. i introduced several proposals dealing with housing for lowincome families. i am pleased to e that many of these proposals have been accepted by your banking and currency committee and are included in the legislation which is before us today. last year. chairman sparkman and i introduced legislation designed to alleviate intolerable conditions which have been allowed to exist far too long in public housing. the sparkman amendment made it clear that federal assistance to local public housing authorities was  limited to debt service requirements. but could be extended to cover operating needs as well. at the same time. i introduced legislation which authorized hud to contract with local housing authorities to make payments for three purposes: first. to eliminate operating deficits which existed in public housing authorities when the housing and urban development act of 1969 was signed into law. second. to assure that local housing authorities have sufficient funds to maintain adequate operating and maintenance services and reserve funds. and third. to make up the loss in rental revenues caused by reducing tenants rents to 25 percent of their incomes. at the same time. the 1969 act placed a ceiling equal to 25 percent of their incomes on the rent which public housing tenants pay. seventyfive million dollars in contract authority was authorized for these three purposes. however. congressional intent was clear as to huds ability to provide funding in excess of this amountup to the annual statutory maximum as specified in the housing act of 1937. as amendedif the newly authorized funds were insufficient to meet the urgent needs which existed. it was also clear that congress committed itself indefinitely to fund the three activities specified and did  place time constraints on the assistance program embodied therein. thus. sufficient funds were provided to make public housing authorities "whole" by eliminating part operating deficits. to insure that public housing tenants were  forced to pay disproportionate shares of their incomes for rent at a time when inflationary pressures were driving the operating costs of public housing projects higher each month. and to insure that. in the future. public housing authorities would have sufficient funds to provide essential services. repairs. and training programs. these two pieces of legislation held the promise for reversing serious trends in public housing. however. the brooke amendment was later subjected to a narrow administrative interpretation which limited its effectiveness. accordingly. i introduced legislation this year which was designed to remove any uncertainties as to congressional intent regarding this program. specifically. the secretary of housing and urban development is required to amend annual contributions contracts to provide payments for the three purposes previously enumerated. pursuant to section 204 of the senate bill. thus. sufficient funds will be available to insure that public housing tenants are  forced to pay a disproportionate share of their incomes for rent. to insure that public housing authorities will have sufficient funds to achieve and. maintain adequate operating and maintenance services. and to make public housing authorities "whole" by eliminating past operating deficits. as pointed out in the committee report. federal subsidies will be available for the following operating and maintenance services: tenant counseling on family budgets and on care and upkeep of property. guard and other costs relating to the physical security of project residents. tenant access to available community services relating to employment. health. welfare. education. and personal counseling. effective managementtenant liaison on all aspects of housing administration. management. and maintenance. recreational equipment and facilities. and adequate and timely repairs to structures. including the removal of any code violations. thus. adequate funds should be available to restore public housing projects to adequate levels of operating and maintenance services and to insure that a sound physical and social environment is maintained. clearly. neither tenants  housing authorities can be expected to provide sufficient revenues to attain these goalsgiven the present state of decay in public housing and inflationary pressures in our ecoy. therefore. federal subsidies are vital if we are to achieve and maintain a suitable living environment for lowincome families. in this respect. section 201 of the bill increases annual contributions contract authority by $150 million upon enactment and by $275 million on july 1. 1971. half of the first figure is specifically earmarked for the brooke amendment and thus brings the total of annual contributions contract money set aside for this requirement to $150 million per annum. the increase in funds for this program has been prompted by revised hud estimates of need. specifically. uficial hud staff estimates indicate that approximately $200 million per year will be required for rent reductions. improved operating and maintenance services and adequate reserve funds. inasmuch as the staff estimates were only preliminary. the committee increased the authorization to $150 million. however. if hud experience in this irea justifies additional funding next year the committee will be receptive to its proposals. it should be emphasized that the committee is  giving a blank check to local housing authorities which will enable them to spend extravagantly or irresponsibly. on the contrary. the committee has been more than receptive to the urgent and legitimate needs of public housing authorities and the tenants that reside therein. these groups must act in a responsible manner and must insure that the additional funding is used to upgrade the quality of living in public housing and to improve legitimate services which contribute to a sound living environment. last years housing act withheld rent reduction benefits under the brooke amendment if such would result in reductions in welfareor public assistancepayments. this provision was designed to insure that the payment of hud subsidies did  enable local welfare agencies to cut back on their commitments. at the same time. the secretaries of hud and hew were charged with the responsibility of establishing policies within their respective departments which would aid in the implementation of this provision. to date. confusion reigns at the local level with respect to the ability of welfare tenants to benefit from the provisions of the 1969 act. i therefore introduced a provision earlier this year which was designed to prevent local welfare agencies from reducing public assistance payments as the payment of brooke subsidy funds. section 202 of the instant bill contains such a provision which should serve as a guideline for local welfare agencies. i further urge the secretaries of hud and hew to report to the senate banking and currency committee concerning actions taken by their departments to agree on common policies regarding public housing rents paid by welfare recipients and to effectuate congressional intent regarding the brooke amendment as set forth in last years housing act and the pending legislation. in considering clarifying amendments relating to last years brooke amendment. the committee adopted an income definition which is to be used by local housing authorities in computing the rent ceiling pursuant to the brooke amendment. this income definition will be tested during the ensuing months and may serve as the basis for a standard income definition which would apply to public housing eligibility and to the proposed renttoincome ratio. the committee considered several proposals concerning a national renttoincome ratio which would govern the minimum rent contributions provided by public housing tenants. it deferred action on this matter. however. because adequate information was  available to justify the enactment of a renttoincome ratio which would be equitable to public housing tenants. the committee concluded that imprudent action on this matter could produce tragic results in public housing. thus. the committee has requested the secretary of hud to make recommendations concerning a national renttoincome ratio by april 1st of next year. i am hopeful that interested housing organizations and tenant groups will cooperate in this effort and will provide the committee with responsible recommendations on this subject. it was the committees feeling that action should be taken next year on this subject and i concur with that decision. local flexibility can be maintained by utilizing a reasonable income definition that will enable local housing authorities to meet individual needs and circumstances. in that respect. i urge local housing authorities to consider the applicability of the income definition contained in section 202. i should point out that the income definition discussed above was devised with the cooperation of local authorities and. i have been informed. provides the flexibility desired. thus. my concerns regarding adequate deductions for such things as extraordinary expenses have been met. the provision authorizing payments to assure the lowrent character of the projects involved does  mean that public housing tenants should be required to pay 25 percent of their incomes for rent. it does mean. however. that payments in excess of 25 percent represent a disproportionate share of tenants incomes which can be tolerated and which are prohibited since the enactment of the housing and urban development act of 1969. it should also be ed that the payment of subsidy funds is  conditioned on- satisfactory standards of management and tenant responsibility  any other vague or unenforceable standard. while i certainly agree with the need for management and tenants to act responsibly. i do  believe the payment of funds for improving the quality of tenants living accommodations can or should be made dependent on the performance of absentee managers or that vague and possibly unconstitutional standards should be allowed to govern or possibly intimidate legitimate actions on the part of tenants. i introduced a provision earlier this year involving flexible construction cost limits for public housing. however. the committee accepted a modified version of the hud proposal utilizing the prototype concept. i have been assured that the prototype concept provides sufficient flexibility on a regional basis so that public housing construction will  be curtailed and so that local requirements can be responded to more efficiently than under present statutory guidelines. i accept secretary romneys decision concerning this matter. however. i urge his department to err on the side of flexibility in the development of initial prototypes so that public housing construction will  be delayed while the concept is being perfected. the committee also adopted my proposal to remove any uncertainty concerning huds ability to extend the section 23 leasing program to newly constructed housing as well as existing units. in addition. the committee concurred with my recommendation that the term of section 23 leases be extended to 10 years with an option to renew for an additional 10 years. i have received very favorable reports concerning this program and believe it deserves broad congressional support. the extension of the lease term should facilitate the construction of new buildings in which units can be leased for occupancy by public housing tenants. this development should provide additional flexibility to the public housing program in many localities. the committee also adopted my recommendation concerning the removal of any uncertainty as to the right of tenants to serve as commissioners of local housing authorities. certainly those residing in public housing are in the best position to understand the needs and concerns of local residents and respond accordingly. any inhibition on such practices merely prevents participation on the part of those persons whose wellbeing is being decided. while the committee has  yet taken action on my proposal to deal with the problem of abandoned buildings. i am confident that the demonstration program which senator goodell and i will be introducing later today adequately addresses this vital issue. the committee received considerable testimony concerning this matter and recognizes the gravity of the situation. the committee was. however. justifiably reluctant to spend large sums of money until the root causes of abandonment in our core cities are given greater study. tools are presently availablesuch as urban renewalwhich address some of my concerns. however. it would be imprudent to enact a comprehensive program at this time until information is available from the demonstration program. i am hopeful that the committee will have sufficient information at its disposal when it considers next years housing legislation to act intelligently on this subject. i am extremely pleased that your banking and currency committee has adopted the experimental housing allowance program which i proposed earlier this year. thus. the secretary of hud will be authorized to provide lowincome families with housing allowances to assist them in obtaining existing standard rental housing of their choice. the housing allowance would  exceed the difference between 25 percent of a tenants monthly income and the maximum fair market rental for standard housing in the community involved. the benefits provided for public housing tenants last year under the brooke amendment would thereby be extended to those persons who qualify for public housing but are unable to obtain it for a myriad of reasons. this concept must. however. be distinguished from the rent supplement program under which assistance payments are tied to specific dwellings. under this proposal. housing allowance payments would be tied to specific families. thus. purchasing power would be provided directly to poor families. thereby enhancing their personal dignity and reducing their ecoic dependence on slum housing. the housing allowance program would reach areas where new construction is simply  forthcoming. rural poverty areas where housing authorities do  exist. as well as those communities where public housing is  available either because the community refuses to build it or existing projects are filled to capacity. the experimental program would be limited to those tenants who qualify for public housing and to those communities where the secretary of hud determines that an adequate supply of standard housing exists. the requirement for an adequate supply of standard housing prevents the payment of housing allowance funds in communities where few vacancies exist and where the only effect of such a program would be to force up rents and line the pockets of slum landlords. where an adequate supply of housing existsas determined by the secretary of hudtenants will be able to shop around for decent housing. while public housing as we k it today will change immeasurably over the next few years in response to urban and rural requirements and to the infusion of funds under the sparkman and brooke amendments. we must also begin thinking of alternative programs to address the needs of the poor. the housing allowance program which is contained in section 504 of this legislation may represent the pattern for future housing programs. there is much to be gained from experimental programs of this nature as we seek to answer our housing needs. the kaiser committee and the douglas commission provided us with valuable insights regarding the housing allowance program and i am hopeful that this experiment will bear out their optimism. the committee has provided $15 million in contract authority for each of the fiscal years 1972. 1973. and 1974. while this authorization falls short of my original proposal. i have been assured that a housing allowance experiment can be conducted utilizing 15.000 families at a cost of approximately $1.000 per family each year for 3 years. section 504 embodies such a "bare bones" proposal and i am hopeful that secretary romney will seek additional assistance from congress if such is necessary. in conclusion. the housing and urban development act of 1970 which is pending before you today constitutes aher monumental piece of legislation designed to make further progress toward meeting the national housing goal of a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family. your committee on banking and currency has worked hard to produce a reasonable and responsible piece of legislation and i urge my colleagues in the senate to lend their support to chairman sparkman in this matter.
i understand what the senator is trying to do by his amendment. i think i understand it thoroughly. and i am in sympathy with what the senator is trying to do. might i suggest to the senator some language which might take care of the situation he is trying to correct. and at the same time  deny the elderly across the country. who are living in some of these projects where there are 200 or less dwelling units. the benefits of the socalled brooke amendment. the language i would propose would read as follows: provided. that any tenant resident in public housing shall have the option of refusing a reduction in rent resulting from the imposition of national requirements. if he has been duly informed of the pertinent facts concerning such reduction and if he certifies that he has made his decision with kledge of the consequences thereof in writing to the local agency. in other words. if one of these tenants does  wish to avail himself of the benefit of this amendment and does  want a government subsidy--again. i commend and applaud them for the spirit. and i am very grateful that some of them are in the condition that they can do thishe would then have the right to waive it and  take it. but it would  be denied to the thousands and thousands of elderly across the country who do  have that wonderful ecoic condition and to whom this 25percent ceiling on their rent is something that is essential. would that be a position which the senator could accept.
which subsidy has been funded and has been approved by congress. and which subsidy they are entitled to and can get. so it certainly would  in any way adversely affect their budget or their operation. the housing authority would get the money. they have been getting the money. it has worked well in community after community. if we were to check. i am sure that we would find for every one housing authority that even questioned it. there would be hundreds and hundreds of other housing authorities all across the country who are grateful for it. it certainly does  hurt them at all but helps the housing project tenant and does  hurt the housing authority at all. as i have said. and as the senator from illis has said. it is commendable that some individuals do  want to accept a government subsidy. but we are talking about a small amount of money in most instances. most of these people have incomes of $100 a month. some less. some $125 a month. they pay a rent of $25 a month which leaves them $75 a month for transportation. for medicine. for clothing. and whatever recreation they can get. it is merely a pittance. the housing authority is  injured at all. it still has local authority to do whatever it wants to do. it says in this amendment that we can charge more than 25 percent of the tenants income for rent and we will make up the difference. whatever that difference happens to be.
. first let me say that i do  believe that persons living in rural public housing projects should be discriminated against and should have any less benefit than those who are living in urban public housing projects. i have had an opportunity to visit some of the public housing projects across this country. perhaps the senator from nebraska has as well. anyone visiting such public housing projects would see the deplorable conditions existing in public housing projects in the country today. they are run down and are deteriorating. the federal government is being called the worst slum landlord in the country. they do  even measure up to the conditions and regulations that have been established by local governments. i do  want to get into the whole question of public housing and why it was originated. that would take far too long. the fact remains that this government has committed itself to public housing. we are  building egh low or moderate housing projects in the country today. there are literally thousands of people who are on the rolls and still waiting to get in public housing projectsthe elderly as well as the poor. this amendment the senator has been talking about is an amendment which was just designed to limit the amount of rent that a person living in a public housing project would pay. that was based upon long investigation to determine what was fair and what was equitable. and we came up with the standard that a person living in a public housing project should  pay more than 25 percent of his income for rent. the second purpose of it was to improve the quality of living in public housing projects by granting a subsidy for improved operating and maintenance costs. some of these elderly people are living in public projects today and they are living in fear of their lives. there are security guards or arrangements for them at all. there are broken windows. and deteriorating housing. and the federal government is associated with it. the senator from nebraska raises the question whether we have the money to do it. all i say to him is that congress has done this. the purpose of the language in the bill  is merely to clarify the intent at the time this was passed by congress in 1969. and i think that this is important legislation. needed legislation. and legislation which has benefited thousands of elderly people and thousands of poor people in rural and urban areas. why. at this time. discriminate against those who are living in rural public housing projects. i submit that there is justification for it. i would agree that if there are persons in his state. as the senator pointed out. and i do  think he has called to the attention of the senate any area outside of his state. but there may be. where they do  wish to have the benefits of this amendment. where they want to pay more than 25 percent of their income for rent. they can waive it. i have suggested to the senator that this would be the proper manner in which we might take care of his objection to this lcgislation and at the same time  injure those who are living in public housing projects. both in rural and urban centers. if they want to waive their rights. provided they k what their rights are. that they should  pay more than 25 percent of their incomes for rent. that is left up to them. but why put the discretion in a public housing authority that might arbitrarily raise the rents 30 percent. or 35 percent of the tenants income. why should we have that disparity. there should be a national standard. we are talking about federal money. it should go across the country. that is what the clarifying language would do. i submit to the senator that if he has individual cases let them waive and turn the money back to the federal government or  accept it in the first instance.
i asked that question because i admit there was some confusion as to the language of the amendment. the purpose of the present bill is to clarify the language. hud has worked on this from the 24th of march 1969. with respect to confusion. they had little or difficulty with the 25percent rent ceiling subsidy. i am sure that the the fears of the writer of this letter would have been allayed since that time. if the senator has any recent communication from the chairman of that housing authority. i think it might be important to read it to the senate.
it is clearly stated that tenant living in a housing project shall pay more than 25 percent of his income for rent. i do  k where there is ambiguity in the language. there never was an ambiguity in that part of the language. that provision has benefited many people across the country. for which they have been very grateful. i had an opportunity to speak to the convention of housing authority representatives in chicago recently. they were strong in their support of this amendment and the benefits that had been derived by the tenants living in public housing projects. i just can see where there really is any opposition from any housing authority at all to this amendment. which does  affect them adversely.
. i also proposed legislation for abandoned housing and the proposal of the distinguished senator from new york represents a sort of compromise between our two proposals. this is a very grave problem  only in new york but in cities all across the country. we have come to the conclusion we do  have egh information and i think we can get far more congressional insight into the problems and what will be done through this experiment. i wish to associate myself with what has been said by the senator from new york. i commend the managers of the bill for accepting the compromise. i think it is something that is worthy and something that will benefit the nation. i thank the senator. the amendment. as modified. reads as follows: on page 40 insert the following new section after line 16:
we provided $150 million and it will probably cost about $250 million. that is the answer to the question many senators were  in the chamber when i engaged in a colloquy with the senator from nebraska. we have been seriously concerned with public housing in this country and we did  want to confine it to debt service but we wanted to go beyond it to operating cost and maintenance because public housing has deteriorated to the point where the federal government is being accused of being the greatest slum landlord in the country. we have had serious problems in deterioration in housing and we did  want to confine it to debt service. but to expand it so we could improve the quality of living in public housing projects across the country. that was the purpose we had here. we went to conference. the house passed it overwhelmingly as did the senate. we feel it is good legislation and essential if we are to maintain public housing. that is the purpose of this part of the bill. i have great respect for the senator from nebraska and what he is trying to do but we do  think this is the place to do it.
. i rise today in support of the conference committees version of the housing and urban development act of 1970. this piece of legislation represents aher milestone along the road toward producing a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family. i commend the distinguished chairman of our committee. senator sparkman. and the distinguished ranking miity member. senator bennett. for their untiring leadership in this field. one can question the commitment of congress to the goal of a decent home for every american family. i am hopeful that this legislation will be signed into law shortly and that it will provide much needed relief in the years to come. highlights of the conference version include: clarification of an amendment to the 1969 act to insure that adequate funds are provided to improve public housing. added flexibility for construction cost ceilings. a national crime insurance program. an urban growth and new community program. and an experimental housing allowance program which may foretell.the shape of future housing programs. while each of these programs is extremely important and should be addressed in depth. i will confine my remarks to lowincome family housing programs which are so vitally needed throughout the country. last year. chairman sparkman and i introduced legislation designed to alleviate intolerable conditions which have been allowed to exist far too long in public housing. the sparkman amendment made it clear that federal assistance to local public housing authorities was  limited to debt service requirements. but could be extended to cover operating needs as well. at the same time. i..introduced legislation which authorized hud to contract with local authorities to make payments to insure the low rent character of public housing and to provide improved operating and maintenance services. the 1969 act placed a ceiling equal to 25 percentof tenants income on the rent which is required to be paid. seventyfive million dollars in contract authority was authorized for these purposes. however. congressional intent was clear as to huds ability to provide funding in excess of this amount. these two pieces of legislation held the promise for reversing serious trends in public housing. however. the brooke amendment was later subjected to narrow administrative interpretations which limited its effectiveness. specifically. while tenants rents were limited to 25 percent of their income. additional funding was  provided to iniprove the quality of operating and maintenance standards. i introduced legislation earlier this year which was designed to remove any uncertainty as to congressional intent. i am pleased to e that the conference committee has accepted this provision. thus. sufficient funds will be available to insure that public housing tenants are  forced to pay a disproportionate share of their incomes for rent. and to insure that public housing authorities will have sufficient funds to achieve and maintain adequate operating and maintenance services and reserve funds. among the operating and maintenance services which will be funded are the following: tenant counseling on family budgets and on care and upkeep of property. guard and other costs relating to the physical se-. curity of project residents. tenant access to available community services relating to employment. health. welfare. education. and personal counseling. effective managementtenant liaison on all aspects of housing administration. management and maintenance. recreational equipment and facilities. and adequate and timely repairs to structures. including the removal of any code violations. the conferees have earmarked contract authority in the amount of $75 million per year. which when added to the funds provided under last years housing act. will bring the level of operating and maintenance subsidies to $150 million per year. thus. adequate funds should be available to restore public housing projects to adequate levels of operating and maintenance services and to insure that a sound physical and social environment is maintained. it should be emphasized thatthe committee is  giving a blank check to local housing authorities. which will enable them to spend extravagantly or irresponsibly. these groups must act in a responsible manner and must insure that the additional funding is used to upgrade the quality of living in public housing and to improve legitimate services which contribute to a sound living environment. it should be ed that atlhough $150 million has been specifically earmarked for the subsidies discussed above. hud is  limited to these funds if conditions require that additional funds be used. i i am extremely pleased that the conference committee has adopted the experimental housing allowance program. which i proposed earlier this year. thus. the secretary of hud will be authorized to provide lowincome families with housing allowances to assist them in obtaining existing standard rental housing of their choice. the housing allowance will  exceed the difference between 25 percent of a tenants monthly income and the maximum fair market rental for standard housing in the community involved. the benefits provided to public housing tenants last year under the brooke amendment will thereby be extended to those persons who qualify for public housing but are unable to obtain it for a myriad of reasons. while public housing as we k it today will change immeasurably over the next few years in response to urban and rural requirements and to the infusion of funds under the sparkman and brooke amendments. we must also begin thinking of alternative programs to address the needs of the poor. the housing allowance program may represent the pattern lir future housing programs. the kaiser committee and douglas commission provided us with valuable insights regarding the housing allowance program. and i am hopeful that this experiment will bear out their optimism. the committee has provided $10 million in contract authority for each of the fiscal years 1972 and 1973 this financing mechanism is also utilized to fund public housing units and should expedite the financing of this program while these funds fall short of my original proposal. i am confident that the housing allowance experiment can be conducted utilizing 10.000 families at a cost of approximately $i.000 per family each year for two years. this program is a "bare bones" proposal and i am hopeful that secretary romney will seek additional assistance from congress if such assistance is necessary. i am also pleased to e that the conference committee has removed any bar on tenants serving on the board of directors of local housing authorities. extended the section 235 leasing program to new construction as well as existing units. in addition to extending the term of leases. has adopted the abandoned housing proposal which i introduced earlier this year. and instituted a number of worthwhile changes designed to improve the quality of living for every american. in conclusion. the housing and urban development act of 1970. which is pending before you today. constitutes aher monumental piece of legislation designed to make further progress toward meeting the national housing goal of a decent home and a suitable living environment for every american family. your committee of banking and currency has worked hard to produce a reasonable and responsible piece of legislation. and i urge my colleagues in the senate to lend their support to chairman sparkman in this matter.
i thank the senior senator from rhode island. . as sponsor of the amendments in the 1969 and 1970 housing and urban development act. which extended annual contributions assistance to cover operating and maintenance costs in public housing. i would like to make clear the intent behind the passage of these amendments--and express concern over the statement in the report of the senate appropriations committee of july 15. 1971. relative to these contributions. unfortunately. i was unable to attend the appropriations committees executive session on h.r. 9382 because of a recent illness. the reason for the crisis in public housing operating costs is well kn. and has been documented by independent research. over the past several years. the expenses of management operations and routine expenses has increased at a greater rate than rental income. the income of low income families has  kept pace with the costs of inflation. the independent study by the urban institute covering the period from 1965 through 1968 for 23 large housing authorities concluded that fourfifths of the rise in routine operating costs was directly attributable to inflation. the impact of this fiscal crisis was further documented in the hearings of the senate committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs in july 1970. local housing authorities and numerous other witnesses presented solid evidence of the need for additional federal assistance to help maintain both solvency and adequate services in public housing in many localities. the purposes of the 1969 hud amendments were threefold: first. payments to make up the amount of rental loss to local housing authorities due to the establishment of the 25 percent ceiling on the amount of income a tenant could spend for rent. second. payments to cover the existing deficits of local housing authorities. and third. payments to enable housing authorities to establish and maintain adequate operating and maintenance services and reserve funds. in addition. the amendments in the 1970 act added a new definition of income relative to the 25 percent ceiling. which had the effect of reducing the rent contribution of a substantial number of existing tenant families. while it was  possible. in 1969. to present detailed figures on the anticipated reduction in local housing authority income due to the 25 percent ceiling. it was estimated at $30 million. the change in income definition in the 1970 act was estimated to reduce local authority annual rental income by an additional $18 million. thus. the need for additional federal contributions to absorb only the rentrelated amendments was $48 million. a further and important purpose of the amendments was to eliminate exist-. ing deficits of local housing authorities. restore reserve funds. and meet the backlog of deferred maintenance. the deficiency in operating reserves was estimated at $92 million. and the maintenance backlog at $178 million. while it was recognized that these problems could  be overcome in a single fiscal year. it was also recognized that some firm effort should be made in the fiscal years immediately ahead to begin these activities. so that eventually they could be completed on a 100percent basis. for the fiscal year 1972. it was estimated that the total operating deficit in public housingbefore provision for reserveswas approximately $99 million: a total of $44 million was anticipated from the special subsidies for elderly. large and low income families. leaving a balance of $55 million to be met by the new authorization relating to annual contributions for operating and maintenance expenses. this was exclusive of restoring reserve funds. or taking action on the maintenance backlog. the estimates were also based on existing rather than adequate levels of operating and maintenance services. to raise management and operating services. including security and tenant services. to adequate levels was anticipated to cost an additional $80 million. congress provided contract authority in the amount of $150 million to cover operating and maintenance costs as part of the 1969 and 1970 hud acts. this authority was intended to be in addition to the special subsidies for elderly. large families. and very lowincome families as was made completely clear on the senate floor during the passage of the 1969 act. 1969.) the extent of the need for additional annual contributions for operating and maintenance in public housing was well in excess of the $150 million figure. it was the intent of the amendments that the department of housing and urban development. together with local housing authorities would move quickly to institute the rent changes. to eliminate deficits. to restore reserves. to take action on deferred maintenance. and to raise services to adequate levels. while some progress has been made. the full action remains a long way from completion. i bring this background to your attention in the light of the comments in the committee report of july 15. 1971. which appear to question the need for $75 million in annual contributions for operating and maintenance. and which make reference to the full purposes for which the $150 million was intended. including restoration of reserve funds. action on deferred maintenance and an adequate level of services. i recognize the need for some objective standard by which to judge the level of local housing authority operating services. it was the intent of 1969 and 1970 legislation that such standards of adequate services would be determined by the department of hud. with the assistance of local housing authorities. i hope that the committee will make clear to the department of hud that the administrative controls called for in the committee report will be concerned with adequate standards of services. and reflect the full purposes of the 1969 and 1970 amendments.
. you will recall that i introduced a similar amendment in the last congress which. like the one i offer today. is designed to aid those tenants residing in federally assisted public housing projects who are receiving public assistance. it was reported favorably out of the senate committee on banking. housing and urban affairs and was passed by this body as a part of the housing and urban development act of 1970 on a vote of 59 to 2. however. when this amendment was considered in conference. we were asked by administration officials to refrain from immediate legislative action in this area so that a joint hewhud task force could review the various alternatives in depth and provide us with their recommendations. accordingly. and at the expense of the poorest of our poor in public housing. we refrained from providing them direct relief for the time being. since that time. i have maintained continuing contact with the progress of the task force. in addition. i recently spoke to the secretary of health. education. and welfare. . and he has indicated his support for this amendment.
. the other major component in the program is the subsidy formula. in essence the single subsidy formula that we propose would cover the difference between total costs--debt service. management. maintenance. and operational costs. real estate taxes. tenant servicesand total revenuesrents and other income. this flexible formula is. in essence. the same as that which is  used in the public housing program as a result of amendments which the distinguished chairman of the housing subcommittee
. some time ago a most controversial document was issued by congressman dowdys house district subcommittee concerning an fha insured rehabilitation project. the clifton terrace apartments located in washington. d.c. most of the charges made in that report have been contradicted by the findings of the general accounting office and the department of housing and urban development. further. the report was disavowed by subcommittee members who never participated in. reviewed. or saw the report prior to its publication. yet the report stands as a government document. and certain inaccuracies contained therein have never been officially refuted. i would like to set the record straight regarding a charge made against a former member of my staff who until recently was the general counsel to housing development corp.. the profit sponsor of the clifton terrace apartments. the report made the claim that miss marilyn melkonian had been employed by the neighborhood legal services project. a federally funded program. at the same time she was employed on my staff. this information is  accurate. miss melkonian was employed by the neighborhood legal services project from june 18. 1967. to august 31. 1967. she was  employed as a member of my staff until september 9. 1967. i hope this statement for the record will avoid any reference to the inaccuracies of this report in regard to miss melkonian in the future.
. it is time to call a halt. it is time for congress to redress the balance. the adoption of this amendment would help to do that. there are some ancillary benefits for men which will flow from enactment of this amendmentpaying alimony to a woman who is selfsupporting will become a thing of the past. men will also inherit and enjoy the same protection which is  afforded to women in business and industry. but what of the women who desire change in their present status. women who want to be mothers and housewives rather than "breadwinners." women who have always been dependent upon a husbands earned income. retirement pay or survivors benefits. women who do  want to invest or own property in their own name. those women can rest easy. those who prefer or elect to retain the status quo may do so. but for most of the 42 percent of american women who are in the work force in some capacity. for the many millions of american women who are single and selfsupporting or who are the sole support of other dependents. this amendment guarantees new opportunity and that most elementary but elusive status: equality. longer will they be denied the opportunity to hold a job simply because they are women. longer will they be denied loans. access to housing or other benefits solely on the grounds that they are women. equal rights for women is long overdue. i applaud this amendment and support its passage.
 of the national association of housing and redevelopment officials. testified recently before the platform committee of the republican national committee in miami. mr. walsh is a kledgeable and respected leader in the field of lowincome housing. and also serves as administrator. housing and development administration. city of new york. mr. walshs comments deserve careful attention. as they concisely set forth the major problems facing the nation in meeting our housing needs. i ask unanimous consent that mr. walshs statement be printed in the record.
. the bill before the senate today offers the continuation of  accounts. a new and somewhat controversial approach to sayings account withdrawals. in effect. these accounts permit a depositor in a mutual savings bank to remove funds from his account through the use of a negotiable order of withdrawalthus. the acronym . the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs in its deliberations on this matter has taken action with respect to  accounts which recognizes and attempts to continue the potential benefits that an individual customer could receive from these accounts. this action of the committee was taken after careful deliberation and full consideration of the testimony and evidence presented at the hearing conducted by the committees subcommittee on financial institutions. however. legislation that would ban interestpaying  accounts entirely has already been passed by the house of representatives. accordingly. i believe that the senate should be fully aware of the consumer advantages of  accounts as it proceeds to consider this important legislation.
this was discussed at great length in the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. where a somewhat different version of the senators amendment was defeated by a vote of 14 to 2. the only 2 voting for it being the senators who propose the amendment  pending.
the joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference on h.r. 8825 reported the house and senate to be in technical disagreement on senate amendment  3. the house. however. in approving the conference report. agreed to earmark  less than $280 mililon for payment of operating subsidies to local housing authorities. as a member of both the appropriations subcommittee on hud. space. science. and veterans and the housing subcomittee of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. i am disappointed that the senate conferees did  insists on a $315 million floor on operating subsidies. which is the absolute minimum needed. it should be ed. however. that the $280 million figure agreed to by the house is only a floor on expenditures and that the administration may spend over that figure if necessary. we clearly must spend more than $280 million if we are to maintain our existing inventory of approximately 1.111.500 public housing units. which have a value of between $30 and $40 billion. i strongly urge the administration to use the authority conferred by this bill to make available operating subsidies in amounts sufficient to meet the needs of our nations public housing agencies. the joint explanatory statement urges the committees with jurisdiction over the authorization for "operating subsidies" for lhas to undertake an evaluation of the socalled brooke amendments. including alleged abuses involved in the use of these subsidies. this language. i am compelled to say. strikes me as a form of legislative libel. by innuendo it implied that there have been abuses in the use of operating subsidies. but it is careful to label these abuses as "alleged." kowever. the conferees apparently feel that these unnamed allegations are substantial egh to deserve study by the authorizing committee. the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. as one member of the authorizing committee. i believe that all our housing programs should be monitored on a continuing basis to determine their effectiveness. however. i do  believe that the committee on conference on h.r. 8825 has been of assistance to members of the authorizing committee by suggesting that we study unnamed abuses to determine if they exist. i. for one. am at a loss to determine what abuses we are to study. . i woud like to have the comment of the distinguished floor manager on that matter.
 and the country that it is the intent of congress that these programs continue until they are terminated or replaced by the congress. therefore. i am introducing for myself and 13 other senators a concurrent resolution expressing the sense of the congress that housing. housing assistance and community development programs be carried out at levels at least equal to the levels prevailing in calendar year 1972 until such time as funds appropriated for these programs are exhausted or congress enacts legislation terminating or replacing them.
. this language appears on line 8 of page 122. there has been some problem with this language. this does  mean that a person must be on a public housing authority. it merely means that the law says that a tenant can be barred from serving on a public housing authority. i have discussed this matter with the distinguished chairman of the committee and with the distinguished: ranking miity member of the committee. i believe that they are both willing to accept the amendment.
. i am pleased that the distinguished senator from new york has introduced his amendment. i discussed the substance of this amendment in the housing committee meeting with my able colleague. the senator from delaware . at the time i think senator biden was interested in accepting the amendment. apparently. however. there was some misapprehension as to whether or  the owners of two-. three-. and fourunit dwellings were actually in the real estate business and whether they were entrepreneurs. so to speak. i try to assure the senator from my own personal experience. if the senator will forgive my reference to my own personal experience. that i took over a fourdwelling building under the gi bill of rights. i lived in one unit and rented the other three. that was the only way that i could afford to own that home and keep it up. what we are trying to do  is to take care of some of the housing that needs rehabilitation. it would be a necessity for a person who owned a fourfamily dwelling to live in one of the four apartments so that he would  be an absentee landlord. he would be able to rent out the other three and maintain the home and pay the mortgage and the bills. i do  k about the dwellings in delaware. perhaps they do  have as many four deckers. as we call them. as there are in the states of massachusetts and new york. however. the concept which the senator from delaware had in introducing his amendment is an excellent one. i supported him wholeheartedly. i am very pleased that the senator from new york introduced his amendment on the floor and that the distinguished chairman and the distinguished ranking miity members have accepted it. i hope that senator biden would understand that we are  adversaries in this cause but are allies. we are striving to achieve the same goals that the senator from delaware desired.
. i certainly do understand. we did have that colloquy in the housing committee. i would like to address myself to the first problem that my colleague finds with the buckleybrooke amendment. i think the senator raised a question as to how many of the homes rehabilitated under the 312 program are multiplefamily dwellings. i think that was the question. of the 25.000 homes already rehabilitated under 312. 4.300 are two. three. or four family homes. so that is a matter of record. the second point was as that speculators may move in and make profit on this program. of course. under the provisions of the bill. the owner must live in the house himself.
. this is a very simple technical amendment which applies to the new leasing program proposed under section 8(g) of the u.s. housing act of 1937. as amended. as section 8(g)  stands. it has provision for periodic review of tenants income. this amendment would provide for a review every 2 years or at such shorter intervals as the secretary of hud shall determine. this is the same provision as is applied to all other subsidy programs under the bill. i have discussed this matter with the chairman of the committee. the floor manager of the bill. and the ranking miity member. the senator from texas
. this is aher simple amendment which could be classified as a technical amendment. there are other places in this bill where there is language which makes it clear that the rental housing provisions apply to cooperatives. i am offering this as a perfecting amendment. to add similar language to section 8 of chapter 2. under the leasing assistance program. the amendment simply provides that the term "tenant" includes a member of a cooperative and that the term "rent" includes charges under an occupancy agreement. it is my understanding that the chairman. the manager of the bill. and the ranking miity member. the senator from texas will accept the amendment.
. i commend the distinguished chairman of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. the senator from alabama . for the very effective job he has done as the leader on the field of housing over many years and. particularly. in the drafting of the legislation which we consider today. i think the senate bill was more than 300odd pages. and i think it took us some 26 days to markup in the committee. as has already been said. we were in conference for approximately a month. but with the able leadership the senator from texas as the ranking member. together with the assistance of a very devoted staff. particularly carl coan. who is the chief of staff for housing. and others who worked so diligently on this bill. we have come up with an omnibus housing bill the likes of which we have never had before in the history of this nation. the conference report on the housing and community development act of 1974 . which the senate takes up today. is the most important housing legislation to be considered by this body in recent years. with the passage of this bill. the congress will effect the most comprehensive revision of our nations housing and community development laws which has ever been undertaken. the passage of such legislation could  be more timely. the housing industry is  experiencing its worst recession in yearsnew housing starts have plummeted to an annual rate of 1.5 million units. and there is improvement on the horizon. the bill is expected to provide some $2.1 billion in housing assistance for lowand moderateincome families. it will also authorize appropriations of $2.55 billion to finance community development activities at the local level in fiscal year 1975 and approximately $3 billion per year for these activities in fiscal years 1976 and 1977. the need for these funds is acute. the moratorium imposed on housing assistance programs in january of 1973 has caused production of housing for lowincome families to come to a grinding halt. the same is true of our urban renewal. model cities. and other communitydevelopment programs. we must reverse this trend. we must get on with the task of eliminating slums and blight and providing decent housing.
to answer the senators question. there is money to take care of some of it to some degree. of course. we would like to have more. as with everything else. we could spend more money on that. but there is money to improve the quality of living in public housing projects. there is also some money for security purposes. particularly in the case of the elderly. we are concerned with security. so there is money in there for security as well. there is money. also. to take care of the inflated price of heating fuel oil which was a real problem for us this year. for instance. in the new york city housing authority each 1cent increase in the price of heating fuel added $1 million to that housing authoritys budget. similar increased costs have been incurred by housing authorities all over the country because of inflated energy costs.
. 15 years ago the word "condominium" was unfamiliar to all but a few americans. today it would be surprising to find an urban resident who hasnt heard of condominiums. about 2 million american families own housing units under this form of ownership. and the construction of new condominiums as well as the conversion of existing structures to condominiums seems to be absorbing the attention of a large part of the real estate industry in many of our cities. between 1970 and the present time. condominium ownership has increased almost sevenfold from 300.000 units to approximately 2 million units. thousands of rental units in existing structures are each year converted to condominiums. decreasing the supply of rental housing in many urban areas. our communities have hardly had time to assess the impact of this new trend in the housing market. a number of questions regarding condominiums have arisen and remain unanswered: what protections should be given by law to condominium buyers. what role should developers be permitted to play in the management of condominium projects. what are the implications of condominium conversions for the rental housing market. are our federal tax laws deciding the future of the urban rental housing market by encouraging condominium construction and conversion. what are the implications for lower income families. some state legislatures have taken the initiative in passing laws to protect condominium purchasers. newspapers and television networks have started to run features on condominiums. and the public is becoming educated. however. the congress has yet to consider the implications of burgeoning condominium development on our housing markets. with a view to stimulating discussion of this issue and protecting the condominium purchaser. senator proxmire and i have introduced the condominium act of 1974. the senate housing subcommittee plans to hold hearings on our bill on october 9 and 10. while it may be too late for condominium legislation to be enacted in this session of the congress. we hope that by initiating consideration of this subject in the 93d congress. we shall be on the way to prompt action in this area in the 1st session of the 94th congress. a bill to protect purchasers and prospective purchasers of condominium housing units and residents of multifamily structures being converted to condominium units by providing national minimum standards for the regulation and disclosure of condominium sales to be administered by the secretary of housing and urban development. be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
. the purpose of this bill. of course. is twofold: one. we want to help the people in this country who have been denied the opportunity to build and to buy homes because of a money crunch which has resulted in either mortgage money or only highpriced mortgage money being available to them. we feel very strongly that helping home buyers is the primary purpose of the bill. but the bill does have aher and a very important objective. namely. to help the depressed housing and construction industry which  has an unemployment rate perhaps as high as 13 percent. when the national average is about 5.8 percent. so this is a depressed sector of the ecoy. and we want to help get housing construction underway again. naturally. if most of this money is used for new construction it will be more helpful to the construction industry. but. on the other hand. we do  want to overlook the fact that there is existing housing in the country today that people canbuy or sell because of alack of mortgage credit money. so. we urge the secretary to look at this problem and be very sensitive to it. we k he will keep his assurance to senator cranston and to me that he will work to do all he can in order to see that the existing housing market is given all consideration.
. i said earlier that senator cranston. in his bill. originally had provided for a sevenpercent interest rate. and i wanted to support that 7percent interest rate because we want to spur housing construction in the country and at the same time have low interest rates for prospective home buyers. but we recognized that in order to do that. it would require a government subsidy at a time when we were experiencing high inflation. and we agreed that there was a necessity for the federal government to cut back on expenditures rather than to expand them. only because of that. senator cranston and i agreed that we should go to the treasury borrowing rate plus whatever percentage is required to cover administrative costs. if we did  do that. we recognized that we would have to provide a government subsidy. what is wrong with a government subsidy.  1. we would be subsidizing people who would be in the $16.000. $17.000. $18.000 income bracket and above. i do  think the distinguished senator from wisconsin wants to subsidize housing for people who are able to pay for their housing. at a time when we have been cutting back the subsidies for lowand moderateincome housing.
. i am in into law. great sympathy with what the senator mr. brooke. does the senator from from wisconsin is attempting to do here. wisconsin realize that there is about we have had evidence before our $4.5 billion. i believe. of unused gnma committee that this could be done with tandem plan authority at 7.75. 8. and onehalf of 1 percent for administrative 8.75 percent for fha and va mortcosts. i seriously question whether it gages. does the senator recognize this can be done. fact. in addition to that. i think the sen- mr. proxmire. that is because ator very well ks that if we accept there are 4 or 5 points to the seller. his amendment. we are apt  to have mr. tower we are apt  to have any mr. proxmire. yes emergency housing act passed by the mr. tower. i wish to say that the senate or by the house of representa- administration views this as does the tives. certainly  signed by the presi- senator from massachusetts. if the dent of the united states because it amendment of the senator from wiswould be inflationary. and it would. or consin is adopted. then we will have at least. the senator would agree. would bill. the question is. do we want an ispossibly require a subsidy. sue. or do we want legislation that is
we have agreed with the senator from wisconsin. we have said that we would like to see it at 7 percent. but we feel that if we accept the amendment offered in all sincerity by the distinguished senator from wisconsinand i certainly do  question his motiveswe will endanger our chance of getting emergency housing legislation passed. i k how strongly he feels about low interest rates. and i agree with him. senator cranston agrees with him. but we have a very practical matter here. we want this legislation. we feel that the housing industry needs it. we think that the home buyers need this legislation. they need it . we have an agreement with the administration that if we pass this bill on the floor of the u.s. senate today. hopefully. the house will take it off the desk there and pass it. and the president will sign it into law. if we put in the amendment that the senator has asked us to put it. as a practical matter. and i say it to my distinguished colleague from new york. as much as i sympathize with his problems. and as much as i would like. and senator cranston as well. to have a low interest rate. we are just  going to get any bill. obviously. it would be a bill which would require a federal subsidy. the country is  in a position at this time to give a federal subsidy for this type of program. it is as simple as that.
they can live with this bill.  only can they live with it. but they can prosper with it. we shall get a construction bill. we shall get a housing bill. that is what the senator from wisconsin wants. that is what senator cranston and i want. that is what the bill does. we worked it out with the homebuilders and with the administration people. . at this last minute. the senator from wisconsin. in all good conscienceand i say that repeatedlytogether with the senator from new york. comes in and says. "let us lower the interest rate." but if we lower the interest rate. we will  get a bill. also. we will get a veto. we are coming into the last stage of this congress. we are going on a recess tomorrow. we will  get this passed. if it gets to the house. it will  be passed. and if it gets to the president. it will  -be signed. then what do we have. we have hing.
the government does  make a profit. the government does  want a profit. the senator from wisconsin was sitting in the back of the room earlier when i said we have assurances from the secretary of housing and urban development that he would put a ceiling on interest rates and it would never go above 91/2 percent. it may go lower. maybe the treasurys borrowing rate will go down. the senator from wisconsin. as one of the most able ecoic experts we have. ks that if the treasury borrowing goes down. we may have a lower interest rate. we may even achieve the same thing the senator from wisconsin is trying to achieve under the pending amendment. the way we worked it out with the administration. so i hope the senator will withdraw his amendment.
. i do  question the integrity of the senator from wisconsin. and i ask him  to question the integrity of the administration here. the secretary of housing and urban development has  suggested we would make money out of this legislation. that is ridiculous. they did  want the bill in the first instance. as the senator from wisconsin ks. the administration did  want the bill in the first instance. they said that .t would be inflationary. my distinguished friend. the senator from tennessee . and i argued this in the committee. we went down to atlanta. ga.. and argued this issue at the preecoic summit meeting on housing and construction.
i just want to say that the senator from tennessee and i discussed this. senator brock was opposed to it initially. because he did  believe an emergency bill should be passed at this time because he thought if we got into treasury borrowing. we would be taking money out of the money markets which would be inflationary. a lot of people think that. particularly on our side of the aisle. even the distinguished senator from wisconsin made that argument when he was arguing with me in the senate committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. he said it would be inflationary. and where would the money come from. i have been attempting to make a case. i do  k that the case has been successfully made. but at least we have tried to make a case. what i am saying  is that if we had to go this far to get this bill. i can assure the senator from wisconsin that if we accept his amendment we will defeat this legislation. and i ask the senator to reconsider it and withdraw his amendment.
time is of the essence. the housing industry needs emergency legislation. if we go the route that the senator from rhode island has suggested. we will  get the bill. it will go over and will come back into the 94th congress. it will go back to hearings. in the meantime. what happens. the 13 percent unemployment in the housing industry might be 16 percent.
. i say to the senators. come. come. let us  play politics with something as important as helping a distressed housing industry and getting housing built for people who have so desperately needed it for such a long period of time. i was against the senator from wisconsins amendment. i think it was a bad amendment only insofar as i believe it would be inflationary. and would require subsidies. and will  pass the house or become law. if it were  for those reasons. i would have supported the senators amendment. because i would like to see the interest rate as low as it can possibly be. but that is behind us . the amendment has been adopted by the senate. i think it behooves us to get on with as good a bill as we possibly can. pass the bill. send it through the house. and hopefully something can be worked out in the house. as to the questions the senator from rhode island raised. because we did  have the facts and figures. one really ks what the cost will be. the senator from wisconsin says the administrative cost will be onehalf of 1 percent. we have heard testimony that it will be 1 percent. i can. in all candor. say to the distinguished senator from rhode island it will be one or the other. all i can say is what the evidence was that we heard. and i do  think the senator from wisconsin can do anything better than i can. we have the proxmire amendment in the bill. there are several other amendments to be heard. one from the senator from alaska . one from the senator from tennessee . one from the senator from new york -are there any other amendments.
and one from the senator from ohio . let us get to those amendments in all due haste. and get an emergency bill that can be accepted by the house and signed by the president. i said very strongly. because i had been told very strongly that if the amendment were adopted. the administration would consider it inflationary and would  sign the bill. i hope  that it has been adopted. the house can work something out and the president can have a bill which he will sign. i think every member of the senate wants an emergency housing bill passed by this congress. and i am going to do everything i can. as i am sure my colleague. the senator from california . will do. to see that we get such a bill.
. i have read the senators amendment. and i understand the purpose for which it is being offered. to increase the availability of reasonably priced mortgage credit for multifamily conventional mortgages. . as i read this amendment. i think the purpose is a good one. but it does present a great risk. hud has had little or experience in this. in addition to that. if the high interest rates demand that apartment rentals also rise. in 3 or 4 years from  when construction is active and when apartment vacancies increase. units constructed with the mortgage money might get in serious financial trouble and under those circumstances. gnma might end up owning them. so that it presents a rather serious problem. . we have. as the senator ks. fha multifamily structures covered by the bill. but in the conventional area where we have had little or experience we feel the risk may be too great. i think the distinguished senator from ohio certainly has a good purpose in mind. i just do  think that under the circumstances. because of the lack of experience and because of the high risk. we can take his.amendment.
i am very sympathetic with the purposes of the senators amendment. in my state of massachusetts we have great need for multifamily mortgages. we do  have a lot of land. but we have a lot of people. this is the direction in which much of the housing is going. we need it. i think it is a very sound amendment. i certainly would want to support this amendment if it were possible. i am grateful to the distinguished senator from ohio for his sensitivity to the need for this emergency legislation at this time. i am most grateful to him that he will  press his amendment at this time. hopefully. subsequently we might consider an amendment of this kind to this legislation. i thank him.
i hope. further. that after it is passed by the house of representatives. it will be signed by the president of the united states. i k there is a question whether this legislation will be inflationary. it is a very serious question. we considered that question. we hope that it can be worked out so that. at the same time we give this emergency aid. we will  add to the inflationary pressures that are loose in the country today. i k that the president personally wants to give some assistance to the housing industry. i think he singled out this legislation in his message to the joint session of congress. he named  of the united states will find that it is possible for him to sign this legislation so that we can get on with housing and give some relief to the housing and construction industry and get the men in the construction trades back to work. i think the senator wishes to respond.
i thank the senator from texas. i wish to say to the distinguished senator from rhode island that in the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. we had exhaustive hearings. i thought. as has been said before. that mrs. hills demonstrated brilliance. she is obviously a very able lawyer. has the intellectual capacity for doing the job. there was a whole day given to opponents of carla hills. the only thing they could say about her was that she did  have experience in housing. she has been head of the civil division in the justice department. but she has  had any direct experience in the housing field. some thought this was to her credit. they said that she was  a victim of cronyism. that she was  tied into any vested interest in the housing industry. and that she came in with a fresh. new approach. the question of evasiveness. which the senator from rhode island raises. came about as the result of a question from the distinguished senator from delaware . he asked her specific questions. and i think he concluded that she had  answered his questions directly at the time. it was a question of whether she was answering philosophically or answering on specifics. mrs. hills did  k the specific programs. to be sure. she had  had an opportunity to become familiar with the specific programs. but she did have some very concrete ideas. she knew where she wanted to go. she demonstrated a commitment. a very strong commitment. to carrying out the mandates of congress as far as housing programs for the country are concerned. i should like to read one question and her statement. if i may. senator biden said: how about reservation concept public housing versus scattered site housing. what is your view in that area. and there is a great deal of debate in that area.
. i do  need to remind this body that we are way behind in our housing starts and that. although unemployment in the country is about 8.4 percent. and possibly increasing slightly. the unemployment figures for the housing industry are about 17 percent at the present time. the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs has been conducting extensive hearings as to what can be done in order to spur the housing industry to get housing built in the country. and. hopefully. bring back into employment the large numbers. the hundreds of thousands of unemployed workers in the housing industry. i k that my own committee. the housing subcommittee of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. is concerned about the jurisdictional problem. our distinguished chairman. the senator from wisconsin
. the senator has said many things which are  quite in keeping with the facts. i refer the senator to the amendment. i am sure the senator has read the amendment. number 1. the senator said you could buy a trailer at $1.900 and get $2.000. pay for it. and have $100 left over. the amendment that i proposed does  include trailers. it specifically says. "but does  include a mobile home or a houseboat." number 2. i refer the senator to the provision in my amendment which says: "(4) mnq~nr size.-na amount shall be allowed as a credit under subsection (a) for the purchase of any property which fails to meet such minimum standards* as the secretary of housing and urban development prescribes with respect to minimum floor space per dwelling. that is the language we used. number 3. the senator said that he does  see anything wrong with an $80.000 house. . are we going to give $2.000 to people to buy an $80.000 house. does the senator really believe that that is going to be an incentive to building housing. i can see a man who is going to have a hard time raising the down payment. who will be helped by $2.000. and who will say: all right. i can afford to buy the house because i can afford to get the down payment. but if i get $2.000 i can do it. i will go ahead and i will put that $2.000 down with money that i have saved in the bank. and i will buy the house. but we are talking about a $30.000. $40.000. $45.000 house. i can see how the senator could ask the senate to vote for an amendment or a bill which provides for $2.000 for the building of an $80.000 house. or a $100.000 house for that matter. number 4. the senator said he wants to get rid of the existing housing stock. i agree we want to get rid of it. and my amendment provides for that. but getting rid of existing housing starts is  going to put one bricklayer back to work. one painter back to work. one plumber back to work. that is the purpose of this bill. the purpose of this bill is to turn the ecoy around and get people back to work. and as i have showed under the amendment. which would improve the senators bill. we will get people back to work. i am glad the senator has read that part of tht bill which says we ought to have a refundable tax credit which could be carried back because if we do  have a refundable tax credit which could be carried back you will give a tax credit which people will only get after a taxable year is over. very few people will buy houses with this type of incentive. and then the federal government will have to pick up a tab of $2 billion and you still will  have more housing starts. and you still will  have anybody back to work. if that is what the senator. the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. wants. then go ahead with the present bill. but if he does want housing. if he does want the construction workers to go back to work. he had better seriously consider more than just one amendment that is included in this bill and get it through the conference. i hope the senate will have the wisdom to adopt this amendment.
i certainly respect the senator from connecticut and what he is trying to do or would have tried to do with this amendment. but i just want to point out to him that the banks are getting all the money they need today. the s. & l.s have them. the savings banks have them. even in the city of new bedford. which has an unemployment rate today of 14.2. they are busting at the seams with money in the banks. so i think the money is there. i think what we are really lacking in the country insofar as housing is concerned. and other things as well. is an uncertainty and a lack of confidence which we have to restore. certainly. we need to do everything we can to stimulate and to encourage people to buy housingas the senator said. to buy either existing housing or new housing. hopefully. so that we can get the construction industry back at work. how do we do that. i think we have to do it first of all because the people need something to put down on that house. if they have some money in the savings bank and they want to buy a house. they may  have quite egh to put down for the purchase of that house. if we could give them an incentive for building that house or buying that house within the next 6 months or within the next year when we need it most. then we will get people to buy that house. but  because they can get money. some months ago they could  get money. they could  get it at all. if they could -get it. they were getting it at 10 percent and above. but  interest rates are coming down. we have many propositions to bring that interest rate down to even 6 percent. but i feel that even if we did that. we would still have a serious problem in getting housing starts today in this country. i would just suggest to my distinguished colleague that. rather than giving a tax credit on savings accounts where there is already sufficient money. he might turn his attention and address his attention to the real problem. that is the downpayment a person needs in order to buy that house. i am talking about the low- and middieincome person that would buy a house. say. from $10.000 to $15.000 in rural areas to $45.000 and higher than $50.000 in urban areas.
i did  mean to say that i expected that the interest rates would go down to 6 percent on their own. i do expect that the interest rates might go down as low as 8 percent. i am suggesting that even the distinguished chairman of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs has proposed legislation before our committee that would subsidize. so that you would get interest rates at 6 percent. that would be with a government subsidy. of course. that is the only way we are going to get it at 6 percent. i agree with the senator that we should  mislead anybody that interest rates are automatically going to bottom out at 6 percent. it could get down to 8 percent. and it is down at the present time. i think hud statistics will bear that out.
i thank my distinguished colleague.  of the government national mortgage association and. as has been said. this will put a ceiling of four points which. i think. was the point that the senator from wisconsin was trying to make. and i think he has performed a great service in having this agreement with the department of housing and urban development. the final paragraph of the letter that mr. kearney sent to senator proxmire. i think. as i understand it. is merely a statement that they will make such a recommendation under certain circumstances and. of course. that will be left up to congress as to whether congress. of course. will enact that legislation. the bill to which mr. kearney refers is a bill which senator cranston and i introduced about 5 or 6 months ago. it is  law at the present time. and it may very well  become law. but it will be a question for congress. i think this would be more than the fact that they may have to take that recommendation to us if the situation should be that the costs rise significantly.
i quite agree also. i was present at the conversation which led up to this letter. and that is my understanding as well.  i would just like to ask to clarify the language in the bill regarding flood insurance. is it the intent of the provision to limit the delay in implementing sanctions to existing housing that is used as primary residences.
. over the last 5 years there has been a 20fold increase in the number of condominiums in the united states. almost onefourth of the newly constructed housing units which are being sold this year are condominium units. clearly. condominiums are becoming an attractive form of ownership for many american families. unfortunately. as condominium production burgeoned. abuses in the sale and management of these units also developed. these include such practices as sweetheart management contracts. onesided recreation leases. and deliberately understated maintenance charges. these abuses have been revealed in the press and documented in testimony before the senate banking committee. despite these abuses. condominiums can be expected to be increasingly used to provide the avenue to homeownership for many middleincome families. the bill which senators proxmire. biden. and i introduced today is designed  to discouraged the development of condiminiums. but to restore consumer confidence in this form of ownership. it is clear that the time has come to formulate a condominium buyers bill of rights. senator proxmire has outlined the major provisions of the bill. and i shall  repeat theme here. i want to e. however. that we do regard this bill as subject to modification in light of whatever comments we shall receive at our hearings this fall. the department of housing and urban development is about to conclude the condominium study which we mandated in housing and community development act of 1974. and i am sure that the results of this study will be helpful in formulating a final version of the bill. we expect to work closely with hud secretary carla hills and her department to secure passage of a bill which can be signed in the near future. in developing this legislation. we were fortunate to have the assistance of two young men who worked in my office for several months--christopher alberti and thomas owens. i appreciate their work and want to take this opportunity to thank them for it.
i certainly sympathize with the plight of the senator from new york. i k in his area. which does  differ very much. i might say. from my own area. in cost. that we have a very. very serious problem here. and i repeat it is unfortunate. but it is this or housing at all.
. i think that the chairmans approach is a reasonable one with the assurance that we will. have hearings on this. because this matter we have discussed before.. we have taken it up in our housing committee on several occasions that i can recall. and we have been concerned about these funds. the various housing program funds. i think that we might serve a good purpose if we k exactly what the condition of these funds are and how the programs work under the various funds. so with the understanding that the chairman will hold early hearings on this matter. i will  press this amendmentand will withdraw it.
. i have a rather lengthy statement on this amendment. which i understand the distinguished chairman of the committee will accept. when h.r. 9852 was before the banking committee. i offered an amendment designed to establish clearly what would be the priority in allocating community development block grant funds in the event that there were insufficient funds to meet the claims of all legally entitled recipients. the committee accepted my amendment. which is  section 5 of h.r. 9852. at the time the 1974 housing and community development act was under consideration. the house added a new category of block grant recipientformula entitlement urban counties which have populations of 200.000 or moreto formula entitlement citiescities with populations of 50.000 or moreand holdharmless communities which were to receive priority funding under the senate version of the bill. the house report statedit is the committees understanding that. in all likelihood.  more than 10 counties would qualify under this definition in the first year of the program. and probably  more than 50 during the first six program years. however. hud. contrary to the understanding of the senate conferees on the 1974 act. established criteria which made some 75 counties eligible in the first year of the program instead of the anticipated 10. the result has been a shortage of community development funds to meet the needs of cities and towns which are located in urban areas and have populations of less than 50.000. while some of these smaller communities are located within urban counties and have thus been able to obtain block grant funds through their county governments. the vast majority of the small cities and towns across the country have gone without block grant funds because urban counties have used up the urban balances which were expected to be available to these communities. the adverse effect on small towns and cities has been particularly acute in new england. where by tradition most local government functions are carried on by towns and cities.  counties. in massachusetts. four of our countiesessex. folk. middlesex. and worcesterwould. on the basis of population. qualify as urban counties. but because we do  use the county form of government. they receive funds. and the smaller cities and towns within their jurisdictions are also deprived of funding. thus. new england loses out simply because of its traditional form of government. if there is any justification for this grantsmanship by gerrymandering. it escapes me. i certainly hope we in new england shall  be expected to change our form of government in order to get a fair share of community development block grant funds. the hud appropriations subcommittee. on which i serve. has at my urging tried to make up the deficiency in funding for small cities by earmarking funds for these communities in the hud appropriations acts. however. the sums which have been set aside are far less than these communities were led to expect they would receive at the time the 1974 act was under consideration. hud. in order to redress. this imbalance in community development.funding. proposed an amendment to h.r. 9852 to set aside $200 million in community development funds for smaller cities in urban areas. and the house incorporated this amendment in its version of h.r. 9852. i strongly support this approach. and i hope that the senate will accept the house provision. if the $200 million setaside for small communities is enacted. it is possible that there will be a shortfall in funds to satisfy the claims of all formula entitlement and holdharmless communities. and. in fact. there is the possibility of a shortfall. even if the house provision is  enacted. depending upon community development appropriations levels. anticipating this possibility. this summer i inquired how hud planned to deal with any shortfall. the department replied that it read the 1974 housing and community development act to require that the grants to "hold harmless" cities would be reduced first. these holdharmless cities are cities which participated in the urban renewal. model cities and other categorical grant programs which were incorporated into the community development block grant program. under the 1974 act they were to be held harmless at approximately their level of funding under the old categorical programs during the 5 years preceding enactment of the 1974 act. over the life of the community development block grant program. these communities have had increase in funding. while inflation has reduced the real value of their grants.  hud is telling us that there is a possibility that these holdharmless cities will  be "held harmless" at all if there are insufficient funds to satisfy all claimants. it is to protect these "holdharmless" cities that i offered my amendment to h.r. 9852. and i believe that my amendment reflects the consensus of the congress at the time the 1974 act was passed. however hud may interpret the language of the 1974 act. i do  believe that the congress intended that holdharmless cities would . in fact. be held harmless. . in my opinion. did congress expect some 75 urban counties to displace small cities and step ahead of holdharmless cities in order to take the first priority in receiving community development block grants. as one conferee on the 1974 act. i can assure you that that was  my understanding of our intent. my amendment to h.r. 9852. which was adopted in committee. establishes that in the event of a shortfall of community development funds. urban counties. rather than hold harmless cities. will be the first to have their allocations reduced. of course. i hope that this would  be necessary. and if there are adequate appropriations for community development block grants it will  be necessary. since the banking committee reported s. 9852. senator cranston and i have had discussions with washington representatives of the national association of counties. the national league of cities. and the national conference of mayors. our discussions have focused on the best way to assure a fair distribution of community development funds while spreading any deficiency in funding over as wide a group as possible. the result of our discussions is the amendment which senator cranston has offered for himself and me. i believe the amendment represents a good compromise on the allocation issue. and i am happy to support it. under the compromise. there would be a setaside of $200 million to fund small cities in urban areas. this money will be distributed at the discretion of the secretary of hud. and  more than $100 million may be used to satisfy "hold harmless" commitments. and. it is hoped that the secretary in distributing these funds would give special consideration to those areas of the country where by tradition local government is carried on through town and city governments rather than counties. in addition. if there are insufficient funds to assure that all legally entitled recipients will be funded. then the secretary shall see that holdharmless cities are fully funded by: first. using ur. to $100 million of the $200 million setaside previously mentioned to fund holdharmles communities. and if that is  sufficient to meet the deficiency. then second. using her discretionary funds to meet the deficiency. and if that is insufficient. third. proportionately reducing the entitlements of formula entitlement communities. this method of funding will only be effective during fiscal year 1977. after that year. it is expected that the congress will undertake a comprehensive review of the allocation formula and make such revisions as are necessary. the compromise amendment which senator cranston and i offer is. in my opinion. the best adjustment in the community development formula which can be enacted at this time. and i urge my colleagues to support it
. let me say. and i should have said this earlier. the distinguished chairman of our subcommittee. the former distinguished chairman of the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. is the father of rural housing. but he is the father of so many housing programs that i neglected to say it. i am very pleased to have his acquiescence in this particular proposal. i certainly agree with him that it is essential and will be very helpful. i am grateful to my distinguished colleague.
. it seems to me that a fair analysis of the senators amendmentand i am sure the senator does  intend this. because he has always been interested in low and moderate income housing and housing for the poor. but whether he intends it or . this particular amendment is a probusiness amendment. because commercial property is  involved in this amendment. it seems also to favor the rich homeowner versus the poor homeowner. i should like to hear the senators opinion or his comment upon that. because i can read this amendment any other way.
. i have outlined some of the more important provisions of s. 3295. i believe that the bill is a good one. and i urge my colleagues to support it. we have held extensive hearings on this important legislation. which is truly vital to our nation and to its ecoy. although i am sure that the distinguished chairman. mr. proxmire. and i and other members of our committee would agree that we want to see the section 8 leasing program work. the fact is that so far we do  k whether section 8 will work to provide decent housing for lowincome people in this country. though we are still waiting and still have great hope that section 8 will be a successful program. nevertheless we have come to the conclusion that we need conventional public housing in the interim. therefore. we have included a provision in this measure which we think is vitally needed to protect lowincome persons in this country who are  receiving decent housing.
it may have had some flaws. but it certainly is the only program we have had which has provided housing for lowincome people. i think the senator from utah will admit that. if we did  have conventional public housing. i hate to think where the lowincome peopie would be living in this country. they might literally be living in the streets. what are we going to do to provide housing for lowincome people in this country.
i get so tired of hearing this attack on conventional public housing. while there is other program which has proven effective to solve the housing problems of lowincome people. i will admit that i have seen some poor public housing projects. i have also seen some good public housing projects. many good public housing projects. the point is that section 8 has been on the books  for 2 years. i believe.
and we still have housing being built under section 8 for lowincome people at this time. talk about bureaucracy. what has happened to the section 8 program. i voted for the section 8 program. i believe in it. i hope it succeeds. the fact remains that we do  have it  and until we do have it. we certainly ought  to discard a program that has worked. the senator can deny the fact that millions of lowincome people are living in conventional public housing and if it were  there in utah. in wisconsin. in tennessee. in massachusetts--anywhere else across the countrywe would be in sad straits. because these people might literally be living in the streets.
we have heard that every year from the secretary of hud. "it is just beginning. it is coming along"-every year we hear it. but it never comes along. what has happened to it. i think the argument for continuing public housing is more valid  because section 8 has been on the books for 2 years and we still have housing. all we are saying is we need the housing and we need it . we have needed it for years. we have promised every american decent housing. we have  begun to live up to that promise.  the senator wants to take away one program that is at least working. admittedly  100 percent successfully. but it is working and it is housing people.
the senator from utah showed great wisdom in his work on the section 312 program. i hope he shows that same wisdom on conventional public housing that we so sorely need in the country at this time. we are  saying. "do  work with section 8." i think the senator from wisconsin strongly supports section 8. 1 strongly support section 8. we are working for it. we hope it will succeed. the fact remains that it has  succeeded yet. what do we do in the interim period. do away with conventional public housing. i do  believe the senator wants to do that.
i will tell the senator why we need the big operating subsidies. because 42 percent of the people who live in public housing are elderly. and they do  have incomes high egh to pay the rent. so the federal government does have to subsidize public housing. the senator talked about his own elderly problem in the state of utah.
of course. we do. we have a lot of elderly people. people are living longer than before. and the people who have to live on social security and small pensions just can afford to live on their incomes. utilities and interest rates are going up and. of course. this increases housing costs. where else can they get it from. they are too old to work. what would the senator do with them. put them out on the street and  have housing. the incomes of most elderly public housing tenants are so low that there has to be a federal subsidy in order to supplement their rents and to operate. as you say. the public housing units. that is what we are caught with. the cost of oil. the cost of electricity. the cost of gas. everything has increased. but  the fixed incomes and low pensions the elderly have been required to live on in order to pay those high rents. so who has to pay it. a heavy percentage of the people living in public housing almost are the elderly or the handicapped. and that is why those operating subsidies are so high.
let me assure my friend from utah that it is  our intent to build conventional public housing at the expense of section 8. that is  our intent at all. what we do intend is to continue in a very moderate way the construction of conventional public housing until we are assured that section 8 will work successfully. that is all we are doing in this legislation.
. title viii of the civil rights act of 1968 states that "it is the policy of the united states to provide. within constitutional limitations. for fair housing throughout the united states." this month mar.:s the eighth anniversary of the signing of the fair housing law. and as one who was active in the initial passage of the fair housing law. i continue to be concerned about the full and fair enforcement of its provisions. primary responsibility for enforcement of the law lies with the department of housing and urban development through its office of fair housing and equal opportunity. that office administers title viii and carries out a program designed to assure that person will be discriminated against in the sale. rental. or financing of housing on the grounds of race. color. religion. sex. or national origin. hud investigates complaints from persons who claim that they have been injured by a discriminatory practice and attempts to resolve these complaints through informal methods of conference. conciliation. and persuasion. if the complaint can be resolved informally. the individual may commence legal action or hud may refer the complaint to the justice department for court proceedings. last year. over 3.000 complaints were received by hud. it is estimated that complaints will reach close to 4.000 this year and 5.000 in 1977. this projected increase demonstrates the greater public awareness of this program and the impact of huds advertising and educational campaign. the four bank regulatory agenciesfederal home loan bank board. federal reserve board. the comptroller of the currency. and the federal deposit insurance corporationare responsible for enforcing the provisions of title viii against discrimination in mortgage lending with respect to banks and savings institutions under their jurisdiction. last month. the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. on which i serve. held oversight hearings on equal opportunity in lending and the enforcement of the provisions of the fair housing law by the bank regulatory agencies. i commend our distinguished chairman for holding these hearings. for his leadership. and for the time and attention that he gave to these hearings. these hearings revealed a disappointing performance by the financial regulatory agencies in the supervision of mortgage lenders and enforcement of fair lending provisions. clearly. these agencies must do more to comply with the mandate of the fair housing law. they should issue regulations and begin to pursue an affirmative program in the fair lending area. earlier this month. hud assistant secretary james blair indicated that in the area of discrimination by mortgage lend-
. habitat represents one of the most ambitious efforts ever to bring together a wide variety of international experts and world citizens concerned with human living conditions to share ideas for housing the worlds growing population. i am sure my colleagues will join me in congratulating secretary hills and the other members of the u.s. delegation on their contribution to the conference. and in offering our thanks and best wishes to all the participants in habitat for undertaking this important task.
it would cut all. residential or commercial. and subsidized housing as well. the senator from tennessee would exempt interest on construction loans for subsidized housing. for residential housing. and for commercial housing. is that correct.
. i commend my senior colleague for offering this amendment. it is a very good amendment. this money is needed. i am personally familiar with the greater roxbury development corporation and the east boston neighborhood council. they do exceptionally good work. for example east boston is involved in such projects as housing rehabilitation. elderly housing construction. land acquisition. land planning and development. and technical assistance for small business. the greater roxbury organization does meaningful work in addressing the critical problems of dependency. chronic unemployment. and rising community tensions. and there are other similar organizations around the country. i think that by adding this very modest sum of $15 million. we would enable this program to continue. certainly at its present level and perhaps even at a little higher level. i have discussed this matter with the distinguished chairman of the committee . and he is agreeable to taking this $15 million to conference. i certainly would wholeheartedly endorse it. and concur with him in that acceptance.
s newly formed cabinet level committee on urban development and neighborhood revitalization. chaired by secretary hills. demonstrates the highest level of commitment in this administration to finding ways to solve the problems of our cities. i was especially gratified to learn through the secretarys remarks that the department is seriously studying the allocation formula that presently determines the amount of money allocated to recipient cities under the community development block grant program enacted as part of the housing and community development act of 1974. as the ranking miity member of the subcommittee on housing and urban affairs. i am very concerned that the formula as presently constituted could end up shortchanging several of our large urban centers. because of the magnitude of the problems of these older cities. their need is the greatest. thus. it is vital that the cdbg formula be made to work. or be changed. if necessary. to insure adequate cdbg funds to the older urban areas of the country.
. it is my understanding that the chairman of the housing subcommittee. senator sparkman. will soon annce the scheduling of hearings on this bill during the month of august. i ask unanimous consent that dr. rosens paper outlining the ecoic theory behind the bill and the text of the bill itself be printed in the record.
as it is presently constructed. it excludes most of the newest. most important. and most frequently utilized federal and state subsidized housing programs. without this mi change. most state housing authorities and real estate developers who construct low and moderate income housing will be unable to continue projects currently underway. or to begin new projects. that is the purpose for this technical change because the section of the amendment would really cure the obsolete section of the code which defines "qualified."
. i strongly support the amendment of our distinguished colleague from alabama . the chairman of the senate housing subcommittee. as we all k. he has been truly a stalwart leader in housing in this country for many. many years. the sole purpose of this amendment is to increase housing starts. i do  think anyone would deny that we are falling way behind in housing starts in our nation. in my own state. it has even reflected itself in high unemployment rates. particularly in the construction industry. where some 40 percent. estimated. are unemployed at this time because we are so far behind in housing starts. we have got to do something about it. we talk about it. everyone deplores it. we k we need new houses. we k we need young families buying houses. they can buy today. because the costs are too high: land costs. the materials and labor. inflation has eaten away. so our young families starting up today just have houses they can buy. because they can afford to buy them. most people living in houses today. if they had to buy them today. could  afford to buy them either. we have done a lot in this tax bill for many different industries. we have given incentives. some in the open and some hidden. but we have given incentives. i say that there is better way. or industry. really. at this time. in the nation. that needs incentives as much as doess the housing industry. that is all that senator sparkman is trying to do with this amendment. i hope that the senate. having inspected it. having reviewed it. having recognized the great need %to increase housing starts. will support this amendment. i could go on with other data. i am sure that we will have opposition to the amendment. we are prepared to respond to those questions. but. in the interests of time. i will close by urging upon my colleagues the crisis situation that exists in the housing industry. in houses to be purchased today and to be built today. new housing starts. and ask that senators seriously consider the passage of this amendment. i commend our colleague from alabama for having introduced the amendbent. as he said. we have some 21 senators . i believe. who have signed as cosponsors of this fine amendment.
. i believe that the en- the senate. actment of these two bills will  only the select committee and the commisprovide a focus for the rehabilitation ef- sion are to be congratulated on identifyforts  underway in many communi- ing the problems inherent in current ties throughout the country. but also practices.. and presenting possible solustimulate neighborhood revitalization in tions. their work will put a lasting imareas where such activity is  current- print on how this senate institution ly taking place. i urge my colleagues to works. give these two measures their serious . in a piecemeal fashion. most of. us consideration. have offered. and seen adopted. limited improvements in senate operations over by mr. humphrey: the years. we have been chipping away
. about restoring the possibility of homeownership for families who have been deprived of the opportunity to own their own homes. to assist these families. i introduced the young families housing act last year. and i reintroduced it this year as s. 664. on february 10. my bill has 21 cosponsors. including senator sparkman. the distinguished chairman of our housing subcommittee. the bill would provide authority for the federal housing administration. fha. to expand its current experimental graduated payment mortgage program into a permanent program. the graduated payment mortgage would reduce monthly mortgage payments during the early years of a mortgage and increase those payments proportionately during the later years. this new mortgage instrument is tailored to take advantage of the fact that a young familys income and the value of its home is likely to rise over the life of the mortgage. even though i call it the young families housing act. it is  limited to families. a single person buying a first home would also be eligible under this legislation. the bill also allows the creation of a new type of taxexempt savings accountan "individual housing account"-which would allow firsttime home buyers to accumulate the equity needed for the downpayment on a home. this savings account. which is similar to an individual retirement account. would permit a potential home buyer to deposit up to $2.500 a year to a maximum of $10.000. this amount would be deductible from income for income tax purposes. anc: the interest income would be exempt from taxation. the bill provides for a partial recapture of the taxes forgone at the time of sale of the house. this would be accomplished by reducing the basis in the house at the time of sale by the amount of the downpayment which derived from the individual housing account. it has been said that there has been almost a decade of young people who have been unable to buy their first homes. this is  only unfortunate but it is potentially dangerous to our country. recent studies have only underscored the urgent need to assist young families in purchasing a home. a study released just last week by the harvardmit joint center for urban studies confirmed the fact that sales prices of new homes have increased twice as fast as family incomes and that the proportion of american families who can afford to buy a medianpriced new home is barely 25 percent. the study found that the poorest onethird of the population has been completely priced out of the homeownership market and that the only families who can afford a medianpriced new home have incomes of $20.000 or more. and those families represent the upper 25 percent of the country in earning power. a congressional budget office report issued last month observed that downpayments on medianpriced new homes rose almost one and twothirds times as fast as annual income for the firsttime home buyer. and more than one and a quarter times as fast as income for existing homes. if the trends of the last few years continue. many families in our country will be priced out of the homeownership market forever. and if that happens. i believe that we will lose one of the most important stabilizing influences in our society. homeownership has always been the principal way in which our nations families acquire equity and a stake in our society. i feel very strongly that this bill is needed in order to give todays firsttime home buyers the same chance that we in our generation had to buy a home. i hope that my colleagues will look closely at this problem. which one of the authors of the harvardmit report said could replace the slums as the major problem in housing in this country. and i hope that you will look closely at the remedies which are proposed in the young families housing act. i do  think that we have a more urgent priority on our national agenda. and i intend to devote my energies to assure the passage of this bill which will restore the "dream" of homeownerhsip for millions of american families.
it is extremely important for us to provide additional funds for housing for the elderly and the handicapped. i will  belabor the point. i believe the senator from new jersey has made his case well. and i am very pleased that the chairman of the subcommittee. the distinguished senator from wisconsin has agreed to accept this amendment.
both my distinguished colleague from massachusetts and i are aware of the procedure. we understand what has to be done and the length of time involved. but we have to begin that process . we feel if we accept this amendment. we can make the necessary changes in the authorization bill next week. then. the secretary of housing and urban development will be able to review this matter and make her determination that an emergency exists. if this situation in mashpee is  an emergency. i can imagine what would constitute an emergency. i am hopeful that the secretary of housing and urban development will find that this crisis is an emergency that qualifies under the existing legislation.
. when i first came to the u.s. senate. more than 10 years ago. i was assigned to and took up residency on the banking and currency committee.  the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. it did my heart well to see that the distinguished chairman of the budget committee. mr. muskie. who has the primary responsibility for holding down the budget. and has done an exceptionally fine job on committee. voted against both amendments reducing the housing and community development programs. i commend him for that. the distinguished senator from maine has always been a stalwart working for housing in this country. and was an outstanding member of the banking and currency committee. when i first joined that committee. i k that he had opposition within his own committee. but i commend him for his leadership in the budget committee. because he recognizes the need for community development and housing in this country.
. i am pleased that the distinguished senator from oklahoma made that point. i k his strong feelings about the need for housing in this country. as i said earlier. i understand that the budget committee must establish a ceiling by function and  try to delve into lineitem programs. but. on the other hand. the result in this instance has been that housing and community development programs under that ceiling would be cut back so drastically at a time when we should be sending a signal to the country that we are really serious about meeting our housing needs.
i wish i could agree with my distinguished colleague. actually it would seem to me that the process ought to operate in reverse. we can act in appropriations committee with greater flexibility if we have the full authorization. if you do  have the authorization. you can make the appropriation. i would rather have sufficient authorization and then leave it to the appropriations committee to decide whether to make further cuts in our housing program. i would hope that the senator would consider amending his amendment to decrease the overall housing figure by $53 million in the areas he mentioned. rather than $123 million. that would be using the budget resolution rather than the presidents budget. i think that is a fair and equitable starting point. i would hate to see us cut back considerably in public housing modernization. i have just spoken about the urgent need for upgrading our public housing projects. under your amendment. would there be any reduction in modernization funding. would the senator tell us exactly where he intends those cuts to be made.
what does the senator mean by a little extra interest. they can draw out all the funds. deposit them in a bank. and draw interest on that money. i do  understand how. on the one hand. the senator from wisconsin wants to cut back on the housing budget. and. on the other. give communities a larger community development entitlement than the congress authorized.
this certainly is going to take money out of the federal treasury. because the interest that treasury could be deriving from their money will go to the cities. why  just give the money to the cities. as the committee did with the $123 million in housing funds which the senator just took out of the bill with his earlier amendment.
i can understand what the senator from wisconsin said. maybe wisconsin. pennsylvania. and probably mv own state and others have had some problems in having the money readily available to pay for housing rehabilitation work. that i understand. that may be one purpose of the amendment. but the major purpose of this amendment. as i see it. is to give cities an opportunity to draw interest on this money on deposit. they would get their community development plus interest. where is it coming from. it has to come from the federal treasury.
let us take an example. a city gets a grant of $3 million. deposits it in a savings and loan. at. say. 5 percent interest. to me. that means that city x is getting a community development grant of $3 million plus 5 percent on that $3 million. so it is getting a much larger grant from hud. from the federal government. than we have authorized and appropriated. is that  correct.
yes. in this bill. we have $3.5 billion in community development funds. . if that moneylet us say $4 billion in grant moneyis taken by every city and deposited in a bank what you have done would cost the federal government about $200 million. the senate has just agreed to take out $123 million from the housing authorization. and you will give the cities back $200 million. it just seems to me that what we ought to do is go through the authorization and appropriation process and decide on the allocation of community development funds to cities.
 i chaired hearings in boston on april 18 of this year to hear testimony on the serious problems in hudassisted multifamily housing built under the section 221 and section 236 programs. in boston alone. there are currently 115 projects built under these two housing programs.
. i do  think this is a compromise at all. i see this as giving the senator from alaska the full force and effect of his amendment. the senators amendment  would be 50 percent above what we agreed upon and accepted in the bayh amendment. the senator says this should be so because of the unique circumstances in alaska. and we all agree that the conditions are unique. but it is continuing a precedent of 50percent increases for alaska on all housing programs.
i also commend the distinguished senator from new york. i agree he is like a member of the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. because he does backstop us on many occasions. and this certainly is one. as the chairman has said. this was an oversight. i refer to our committee report on page 27 which says that: hud regulations have . however. permitted assistance for two family dwellings. many central city neighborhoods consist of dwellings built originally for single family occupancy which are too large for todays smaller families but are very suitable for owner occupancy with a rental unit. hud should make section 235 assistance available to such neighborhoods by authorizing assistance for two family dwellings. so. even though we recognized it in the report. we did  make the appropriate change in the bill. i think that this amendment is a very worthy amendment and i commend our distinguished colleague for introducing it. he certainly points out clearly that in his state of new york. certainly in massachusetts. and elsewhere. we suffer from these low mortgage limits. because we just can build housing at the same price as in some other parts of the country. so i am very pleased to support the amendment.
i thank my distinguished colleague. . to support my contention. that this is  a regional question. this is  "sunbelt" versus "frostbelt." we have had that issue before us in other bills. but it certainly is  present here. under the formula proposed by the committee. such states as illis. indiana. iowa. kansas. michigan. minnesota. missouri. montana. nebraska. south dakota. and wisconsin will receive increased allocations and these are  theastern states. these are  the socalled frostbelt states. these are states that would benefit from this formula for one reason and one reason only. that is because they have old housing. and that is the basic factor in this new formula. as i pointed out in my opening statement on this bill. age of housing has been shown to be an extremely effective indicator of community development need. that is exactly the issue before uswhich states have the greatest community development need. aged housing also correlates well with a number of other factors. such as high tax effort and loss of tax base. which are symptomatic of distressed communities. the new formula that was agreed to in committee will make substantial progress toward directing funds at our neediest small cities. particularly those which are phasing down from their "holdharmless" levels. if we were here concerned with revenue sharing. i could understand some of these sectional arguments. which have been advanced. but we are talking about what can we do to equitably distribute the limited community development funds. we agreed to a formula which at long last shows a recognition of aged housing and as an important factor and in determining need. so when senators get up on this floor and talk about frostbelt. and sunbelt. theast. west. and south. they are  addressing themselves to the issue that is before the senate at the present time. the issue before us is strictly community development need. and that is a national question.  a regional question. the only way to do it fairly and equitably is to use age of housing as a vital factor in the formula. and that is what we have done. i have shown that the states which do benefit from this formula are  all located in the theast. certainly we can say kansas is in the frostbelt. that kansas is more of a rural. agricultural state. but it has aged housing. that is why it benefits under the formula. i want to assure the distinguished sponsor of this amendment that if this amendment should carry. it would be a backward step as far as equity in allocation of community development funds is concerned in this country. this is true  only so far as the theast is concerned. but it would be a backward step for the country. therefore. i must hope that the senators amendment will be rejected by the senate
. as i understand it. this amendment would create a setaside of 25 percent of the funding under the urban development action grant program for smaller cities and towns. under the committee bill. there is population cutoff for udag eligibility. hud secretary patricia harris has indicated that certain smaller cities would receive funding under udag if they demonstrate the same distress as larger cities. in addition. the committee bill provides a new mechanism for funding basic discretionary grants to smaller communities. it is huds intent to meet the needs of smaller cities equitably through comprehensive grants and udag grants. when needed. obviously. hud has objected to any setaside of funds for any particular group of cities. it would appear to me that this is a sound amendment. even though i would agree that hud makes a sensible argument. a similar amendment. as i understand it. did pass overwhelmingly on the house floor. because it was offered as an amendment which recognized the needs of smaller communities. is that correct.
that is correct. because they qualify as distressed cities. that is why the secretary is seeking funding for udagto aid the distressed cities. but if we have relatively welltodo cities getting udag money. that would supplement their regular community development money. which should be used to assist low and moderate income people in distressed areas. what are these wealthier cities doing with their community development funds.
they should be the beneficiary of a program. and they are these types of communities are beneficiaries of the regular community development program. but should they be a beneficiary of the "distressed cities" program called udag. that is the whole question.
every program helps people. i mean. that is what we are talking about. helping people is our business. but i am just saying that here we have a specific limited program for distressed cities. and the only reason we have this program is because we found there were certain cities in the country that qualified as distressed cities and they had needs over and above their regular community development block grants.
if you are going to use that kind of reasoning. you can say that you are going to give operating subsidies to people living in housing that costs $100.000. it is  our purpose to do that. these people are fortunate either by education or skill or talent and are able to afford a $100.000 home. so our programs in housing are limited to those people who unfortunately can afford to live. if you can find one today. in a $15.000 home. and the same reasoning applies to the cities. it is  our purpose to help a thriving. wealthy city like dallas or houston. tex. the per capita income of those cities and their growth rate would certainly mean that they could  qualify as distressed cities. that is  true of milwaukee.
and the senator from maine disagreed with the judgment of his committee on community development as well. i thought it was the view of other members of the committee that the emously large budget figures for housing troubled him.
that is  the way to get out of the dilemma. we want to get out of the dilemma that housing is in by keeping section 208 in the bill. we are trying to reach an agreement as to whether the appropriations committee has to approve the contract prior to the contract becoming binding and valid. the senator from wisconsin and i believe it does. senator chiles believes we do  have that authority. we think we do have that authority.
. i just want to thank the distinguished senator from alabama for his most generous words. i would like to say to him that this is my lth year on this committee. and he has been my tutor and inspiration. any work we have done in housing certainly has come from the great leadership he has given to us and to the members of the committee. i am just so grateful to have had the opportunity to serve under him as chairman of the full committee and as chairman of the housing subcommittee.
. i am today introducing legislation which would provide a tax credit for amounts contributed to an "individual housing account." this bill would meet objections to the "individual housing account" portion of s. 664. the young families housing act. which were raised by the treasury department at hearings on s. 664 held earlier this year before the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. i would hope that the finance committee will give this bill its early consideration. by mr. metcalf:
i thank the senator for his kind words. i hope the secretary of housing and urban development will understand and use these criteria 4n the distribution of the discretionary udag funds. so that cities across the country. particularly mediumsized and small cities. will begin to receive the assistance they need. because they are plagued with the problem of older housing stock. my colleague worked with us very diligently on this effort. and i am very grateful for that. i guess under the circumstances that this was the best way to resolve the deadlock at the conference. and i intend to look very closely at what the hud secretary does in the allocation of these discretionary funds. and make sure that concentration of older housing stock criteria included as part of the conference report are actually used by the secretary.
. i am very grateful to my distinguished colleague from new york for his words of commendation. i certainly share his concern about the increasing blight that the cities of this country. particularly the theastern cities with high concentrations of older housing stock. have been suffering under the existing community development formula. let us hope that the day will arrive quickly when the concentration of older housing stock will be given the consideration it deserves in connection with the distribution of community development funds
i thank the senator. let me say that the senator is basing all of his statements upon the statements of a state assemblyman in new york who represents the south bronx. i am  familiar with the south bronx. but i would agree with the distinguished chairman of the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee that the senator has  made the case that we need this sweeping authorization of unlimited nationwide "voluntary" twoparty checks even though they might. and i stress might. have a marginal effect in south bronx. but the general counsel of the department of social services in new york city has said 20 percent would be sufficient for new york. including the south bronx. so we are  even assured that new york is in such a severe crisis situation to warrant a possible 100 percent of afdc recipients on a twoparty check. in testimony before the junior senator from new yorks own finance committee on july 14. 1977. the detroit free press reported that the local landlord association had dropped its demand for unlimited vendor payments as authorized in this bill. the demand was dropped because a wellpublicized landlord survey conducted by the association received only 200 complaints about recipient payment of rent at a time when detroit has an afdc caseload of more than 80.000 families200 out of 80.000. in addition. a new york times story on thursday. october 13. reported that a landlord spokesman estimated that only 7 percent of afdc recipients even in the south bronx failed to pay their rent when due. what i am saying to the distinguished junior senator from new york is that he  wants 100 percent coverage and that is  justified and  wise. he wants the 20 percent. which may be needed. but he also wants the other 80 percent under the voluntary payment plan. which means that 100 percent of afdc recipients would have to have twoparty checks. the junior senator from new york is going to say that is  true because the unlimited twoparty checks would be voluntary. i am going to say to the senator that it is  going to be voluntary when an afdc recipient goes up against a landlord. afdc recipients will be forced by  getting the rental unless they enter into a twopartycheck contract. that is what we who cosponsor this amendment fear. if we were addressing ourselves only to the limited problem of south bronx. it would be one thing. but we are . we are addressing the whole nation. and we are  justified in authorizing 100 percent afdc twoparty checks. that is what we are trying to say. the senator has been citing the distinguished secretary of hew. he has objected to the shocking words used by senator proxmire. the shocking thing to me was when the hew secretary abruptly and at the last moment reversed his position. i refer the senator to a letter addressed to the hoable william d. hathaway. who is in the chamber and who will speak shortly on the administrations position. this is what hew said: hew does  object to the principle of twoparty payments where appropriate. but does  support the unlimited use of this device. without our amendment. i say to my distinguished colleague from new york. the bill authorizes unlimited use of this device. i have a letter from the secretary of housing and urban development.
certainly. i should be delighted to have it charged to my time. i shall put in the record a letter from the secretary of housing and urban development addressed to the hoable daniel p. moynihan. today. but i want to read a section from it because i think it is important. the secretary says: i do. however. have two concerns with respect to these provisions as they pertain to protective payments for dwelling units. first. since these provisions do hing to encourage compliance of the dwelling unit in question with applicable code or other housing requirements. i fear that they may result in a form of guaranteed income for the landlord. without a corresponding assurance that the dwelling unit is decent. safe and sanitary. second. there is assurance that the rent to be paid is reasonable. by permitting up to 50 percent of afdc payments to be earmarked for housing costs. the measure would provide disincentives to excessive rental charges and allocation of a higher percentage of income for housing than is consistent with federal policy. accordingly. i have reservations with respect to the desirability of these features of h.r. 3387. so. at one time. up until today. the secretary of hew was opposed to the unlimited socalled voluntary use of twoparty checks. the secretary of hud is opposed to it and many other kledgeable and concerned organizations are opposed to it. and they. and we do  oppose it because we do  want landlords to get their rent. of course we all want landlords to get their money. but why must we presume that an afdc recipient will  pay the landlord that rent. when the data is to the contrary. in detroit. california. wisconsin. virginia. and new york. as well as in massachusetts. afdc recipients with rare exception are making those payments. why should we put that stigma upon them and say. "we do  believe that you are responsible egh to pay your rent."
. this speech reflects the great interest and insight of the distinguished senator from maryland in the area of fair housing. i commend these remarks to my colleagues and ask that they be printed in the record. the remarks follow: fair housing: after a decade it is a pleasure to address this fair housing conference and to join you in marking the tenth anniversary of the passage of the national fair housing law. title viii of the 1968 civil rights act. when i say its a pleasure. i really should qualify that. its a pleasure to be among friends in the fight to make fair housing a reality. but. it is painful to consider how much still needs doing 10 full years after it became the law of the land "to provide ... for fair housing throughout the united states." it is true that weve made some progress since 1968. you dont see crosses burning on suburban lawns these days. or read the words "white only" in real estate ads. but we are still very far from providing "fair housing throughout the united states." in fact. sometimes it looks as if weve merely exchanged blatant forms of discrimination for subtler. more insidious ones. yesterday you reviewed the survey done for hud by the national committee against discrimination in housing. im sure you found it as discouraging as i did that the study uncovered acts of racial discrimination in housing in american cities from coast to coast. th and south. aher recent studythis one by the american bar associationconcludes that exclusionary zoning and other local governmental action "have prevented access to decent housing and have reinforced and aggravated patterns of racial and ecoic segregation." the aba study also finds that "courts and legislatures have done far too little to prevent this governmental abuse of power." so. painful though it is to admit it. on this 10th anniversary of the fair housing act. we havent licked discrimination by a long shot. we may just have driven it underground. that great civil libertarian henry ward beecher maintained that "laws and institutions are constantly tending to gravitate. like clocks they must be occasionally cleansed. and wound up. and set to true time." i think the time has come to wind up the fair housing act and set it to true time. and i think ive got the right key to do that job. last monday i chaired hearings of the senate judiciary subcommittee on the constitution on my bill to improve huds enforcement powers in fair housing disputes. during those hearings. i heard cases of housing discrimination based  only on race. but on sex. marital status. children. physical disability and age. the terrible pervasiveness of discrimination which these hearings disclosed convinces me that we need to put some sting into huds enforcement powers. as a longtime observer of our disarmanent negotiations. i have come to appreciate just how powerful a weapon the threat of force can be. the importance of some weapons systems lies more in their deterrent power than in the likelihood that we will use them. and i think theres a lesson to be learned here and applied elsewhere. i would like to get a little deterrent threat into hud and behind the fair housing act. and senator glenn and i have introduced a bill which i think will do the job. s. 571. which has been cosponsored by senator bayh and senator humphrey. puts the federal government squarely on the side of the individual complainant seeking a fair chance to rent or buy housing. at present. as most of you k. hud may only attempt to conciliate between landlord and prospective tenant. or between seller and buyer in caes of discrimination. the track record of hud under this procedure has  been outstanding. only 25 percent of the cases ever get to the conciliation stage. about half of the individual complainants are  represented by counsel during the proceedings and.  surprisingly only onehalf of the cases are successfully resolved. those whose cases do  get to conciliation in a timely fashion. or whose conciliation agreements are  adhered to. may take their case to court. but. few choose to pursue this route because of the time and costs involved. my bill provides hud with the power to refer to the justice department for prosecution individual complaints of discrimination which it considers substantive. it empowers the justice department to enter suit on behalf of those individuals. thus sparing them the expense of attorneys and reducing the amount of personal time they must spend on their case. additionally the bill provides for the awarding of attorneys fees to the successful party. i suspect people wont be half as quick to discriminate against the poor or the elderly or anyone else. if they run the risk of being zapped with a court suit and costs. i think s. 571 will provide just the sting hud needs for effective enforcement. i hope i can count on your support for this legislation because i believe it will be an effective weapon in the struggle to erase discrimination from the face of america. it will help make certain that when we come together ten years from  to mark the 20th anniversary of the fair housing act. we wont have to say. "yes. weve made some progress. but..." . because a long talk sits heavily on full stomachs. i want to touch on just two other aspects of discrimination before i close. first. there are certain bedrock realities we must bear in mind in the drive for equal housing opportunity. equal opportunity is meaningless without an adequate supply of housing at prices and rents all can afford. in many of our communities today the distinction between racial and ecoic discrimination in housing is blurred. congress and hud must ensure that sufficient low and moderate income housing is provided throughout regional housing markets to alleviate the pressures which give. rise to ecoic discrimination. when we begin in earnest to view housing dynamics in a broad market area context. without regard to local jurisdictional boundaries. then. at last. we will be on our way to an enlightened policy and practice in fair housing. finally. i have talked about setting our laws and institutions to "true time." but i think we all k. deep in our hearts. that prejudice and discrimination can be overcome by laws alone or by pressure from institutions. there are archie bunkers. there does exist a mindset among certain people in this country. prejudices die slowly. and changing attitudes is a very delicate process. it requires time and patience and quiet determination. we must all exert ourselves to promote attitudes which accept equal opportunity for all and which will ultimately become a positive force for affirmative action. the change of mind and heart we need will likely come through public education and exposure to the different ethnic. racial. and other groups that are targets of discrimination. i have spoken of putting some sting in enforcement. but the adversary process can only be a technique of last resort. when other methods of persuasion have failed. the surest guarantee to fair housing and equal opportunity will be the sturdy. widely held conviction that they are right. in my lifetime. with each succeeding generation. i have seen that conviction spread and take deeper root. and i honestly believe that we are  far from the day when americas clocks will be set to true time.g
. careful consideration and deliberation have gone into the formulation of this years housing bill. and i am extremely proud of the product of the committees efforts. this bill is comprehensive. makes the most effective use of the funds authorized and. i believe. goes far toward meeting our commitment to providing for the needs of low- and moderateincome americans. i strongly urge my colleagues to support this bill.
. for the 12 years that i have been in the senate. i have had the great fortune of serving on the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. and i have been greatly hoed to  serve as the ranking republican on that committee. i have always served on the housing subcommittee under the dynamic leadership of the senator from alabama who has really been my mentor. my counselor. and my inspiration in working on housing concepts for the past 12 years. so i simply add to what senator proxmire has said to him. senator sparkmans name will always be remembered in this country as . senator bill proxmire. for whom i also have great admiration and respect.
. i am pleased to support the amendment. i. too. think it is an excellent amendment. i think the senator from maine is doing us a great service by proposing this amendment. i believe this amendment is also contained in the housing bill of the house of representatives.
. i say to you there are probably many others who fear if this amendment is agreed to that will spell disaster and tragedy for lowincome people who are living in housing and who need housing in this country.
the senator is exactly correct. this is what i referred to when i said "penny wise and pound foolish." it certainly is  cost effective. we have an investment of $20 billion in public housing in this country. and if we cut back here. we are cutting back on money which is essential to maintain that investment. and it is  only an investment in dollars. it is primarily an investment in human lives. because millions of people are in need of safe and decent public housing. we must have a sufficient level of operating subsidies. these operating subsidies must reflect the fact that utility costs have skyrocketed. oil costs are high. inflation has  bypassed public housing. any more than it has bypassed any other area in the country. public housing authorities have to pay more for services and operations. in new york a few years ago. it was true that every time the cost of oil went up a penny it cost the public housing authority a million dollars more. where is this money coming from. it can come from the poor who live therewho. thank god. have to pay more than 25 percent of their income for rent. if it were  for the 25 percent rule. they would  be able to afford to live in public housing today. to cut back on the operating subsidies. as this bill would propose. could put those public housing authorities out of business. and the federal government would end up. as my distinguished colleague says. just taking a bath. hud would end up operating these projects itself because the public housing authorities around this country just do  have the money to operate these projects. so this is a very dangerous cut. it is a cut in terms of human life. but it is also a cutback in a very important and significant investment by the federal government.
. the distinguished senator from maine certainly did  mean to say the total need. because the minimum need is 600.000 units. as we have already said. certainly that is  the total need. the senator served on the banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. he served on that committee when i was a member of the committee. so he is well aware of the housing needs of this country. everything is relative. you talk about cutting back to 375.000 units. but the reality is that the funding level you propose would  produce 375.000 units. it will only produce 360.000 units. which is below this years level and below last years level and below the level of the year before that.
i thank my distinguished colleague. i just want to point out to him. this whole question of cost effectiveness which we are talking about i raised before the distinguished senator from new york came into the chamber. that we have in public housing alone a $20 billion investment.
which we have to protect. in the area of hudassisted housing. hud has been selling some of those projects they acquired at 3 cents on a dollar. three cents on a dollar. so we are losing money. i just can understand why we can get that point across. that building housing will help this ecoy. it will give us additional revenues for the ecoy and we are protecting our substantial dual investment. so it is  a matter of wasted money or money going into a vacuum at all. yet time after time we have to fight for housing. i think it is the most important investment we can make.
if we have good health. people will be productive. if they are educated. they will be productive. if they have housing to live in. they will be productive. and that will return revenues. . are there any more speakers on this amendment.
. this amendment would allow hud to conduct demonstrations of multifamily homesteading with various forms of residentcontrol profit ownership. it would give hud the opportunity to explore inative forms of multifamily home ownership in addition to the condominium and the cooperative. the amendment is supported by hud. it is  intended to change the purpose of the multifamily homesteading program. it would have budgetary impact at all. i have discussed it with our chairman. senator proxmire. and we both support it. again we commend the senator from alabama. senator sparkman. for introducing the amendment. we are prepared to accept it
. i move concurrence in the amendments which the house has made to this bill. the rentcontrol measure. house bill 5890. which the senate recently passed. but in connection with the motion. and in order that it may be clear what the intent of the only important amendment is. i have prepared a statement which i believe the senate should hear and which should be in the record. the house of representatives has accepted each of the amendments made by the senate to the district of columbia emergency rent act. h. r. 5890. withcut. however. sending the bill to conference. the house on ember 21. 1941. made a further amendment consisting of a new paragraph. to be kn as section 4 (e). reading as follows: (e) any tenant may petition the administrator to adjust the maximumrent ceiling applicable to his housing accommodations on the ground that such maximumrent ceiling permits the receipt of an unduly high rent. whereupon the administrator may. by order. adjust such maximumrent ceiling in such manner or amount as shall. in his judgment. effectuate the purposes of this act and provide a fair and reasonable rent for such housing accommodations. this new paragraph evidently is intended as a substitute for section 4 (a) as it stood in the bill when originally passed by the house of representatives cn ember 3. 1941. but which was stricken out by the senate. and which still remains out of the bill as  passed by the house. the original section 4 (a). which was kn as the patman amendment. was stricken out by the senate on the recommendation of the senate committee on the district of columbia primarily on the ground that it did  conform to the procedure and purpose of the rest of the act. the house. in its new paragraph 4 (e). has  inserted a paragraph which evidently is intended to conform to such procedure and purpose. and makes it possible to review the rental of housing accommodations on petition of the tenant that they are unduly high. even though such rental was already. in effect on january 1. 1941. section 4 (e) gives a tenant the opportunity to have the maximumrent ceiling applicable to his housing accommodations reviewed by the administrator upon his complaint that it is unduly high. the administrator may then. by his order. adjust it in such manner or amount as shall. in his judgment. effectuate the purposes of the act and provide a fair and reasonable rent for such housing accommodations. reading this provision in connection with the rest of the bill. the administrator can and should review and adjust such rental so as to bring it in line with the scale of rentals recognized in the remainder of the act. namely. by determining a fair and reasonable rent on the readily ascertainable basis of rentals generally prevailing for comparable housing accommodations. it is intended thus to give relief in the case of some rentals which. even on january 1. 1941. already were higher than those generally prevailing for comparable housing accommodations.- in the light of the purposes of the act. rentals of housing accommodations are  to be determined under the cumbersome and almost endless procedure of determining publicutility rates for service. based upon proofs of original cost. investment value. cost of reproduction less depreciation. or any other complicated rate base. it is intended that there shall be a readily ascertainable standard of rentals determined by those generally prevailing for comparable housing accommodations. it also is recognized that although there may have been some few unfair and unreasonable variations from a mal standard in individual cases as of january 1. 1941. yet the generally prevailing standards of rental at that time had  then been substantially distorted. i believe that this amendment should be concurred in by the senate as being intended to effectuate the purposes of- the act in the manner here stated. and as passed by the senate. i move concurrence in the amendments of the house.
 that does  follow at all. the interest on federal bonds is  paid out of real estate taxes. the added interest which goes to make up the income tax of the holder of federal bonds does  come from real estate taxation.
yes. . in order to meet the housing situation there is a need for the houses which have been inundated by this flood. there is a need for the food which can be produced on this area. although the amount involved is small. it is the contention of both the senior senator from ohio and myself that certainly this is precisely the same type of a situation that is being met by the pending measure. which provides $12.000.000 to cover the flood situation on the missouri river. we ask that there be included in the bill. as an amendment. the provision for $265.000 to cover a like situation on lake erie.
 and indicated that this is the kind of area he wishes to preserve in these times. in order that the people residing there may produce food for themselves and also food for sale. the area is valuable for housing purposes and for foodraising purposes during the war. i wish to point out to the senator from missouri that the amendment is precisely what he says his bill is. it is an emergency mattter. there has been a disaster there. the floods occurred in july and october. and this is the first season after that. the project is a comparatively small one. therefore. it does  involve the number of dollars of appropriations which a larger item would involve. but the issue is the same. let me say furthermore that i do  k how the senator from missouri ks what the action of the house of representatives will be on this bill.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to authorize the national society of the sons of the american revolution to use certain real estate in the district of columbia as the national headquarters of such society. i ask unanimous consent that a statement prepared by me relating to the bill may be printed in the record.
there is. of course. a difference between the lending of money and the use of money directly in construction by the federal government. it is true. as the senator has suggested. that the original bacondavis act covered construction by the federal government. however. the prevailingwage provisions of the bacondavis act have been applied to programs by states and localities in a number of areas. involving exactly the same kind of relationship between the federal government and the public agency in the locality. or private agency doing the actual construction. i have detailed a number of examples. and should like to mention a few more for the record. present loan and guaranty programs to which prevailing wage amendment applies: loans: public housing. slum clearance and urban renewal. defense housing and community facilities act of 1957. fha guarantees: capehart housing. multiple family. private housing of more than 12 units. defense housing and community facilities act of 1951. cooperative housing.
. about 1 year ago the first reverse freedom rider was sent to jersey city from new orleans amidst international publicity. recently. the jersey journal carried a report about mr. louis ernest boyd and his family of eight children and the results of his residency thus far in jersey city. mr. boyd and his family  live in an apartment in the a. harry moore development at lincoln park. a public housing project. i am informed by the director of tenant relations. mr. conrad j. vuocolo. that the family is getting along well from the standpoint of employment. schooling and community relations. i ask unanimous consent that the article from the jersey journal be printed in the record.
 of the commerce and industry association of newark. spoke at the ember 20. 1963. meeting of the new jersey association of housing and redevelopment authorities in atlantic city. n.j.. with reference to the efforts which newark has made and the gap which needs to be filled if there is to be additional progress. mr. wiedenmayer has some stimulating ideas to offer. i believe. about the future of the urban renewal program based on the experience of the business community of newark in meeting the challenge of urban redevelopment. and i ask unanimous consent to have his remarks printed in the record. . there being objection. the remarks were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
s power or the power of the government of the united states in the matter of withholding funds for housing purposes under housing guarantees or anything else. it merely says "this bill does  do that." so the effect of the omission of reference to religious activities from this particular title means that the bill does  deal with it. but does  make legal what. under other law or under the constitution. would. of course. be illegal.
i concur utterly that this particular title is  in any way intended to.  could it. affect the presidents power with regard to discrimination in housing or in programs currently operated under the presidents power in this connection. or existing orders of the president. specifically the executive order of ember 20. 1962.  11063.
at this point. when we are considering the question of the effect of the adoption of this title on such matters as the power of the president in regard to housing and the orders which he has issued. i should like to insert two brief questions which were asked and answered in the house debate. involving the chairman of the house committee on the judiciary.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for repair by the district of columbia. at the expense of the owner. of uninhabitable buildings in the district. and i ask unanimous consent that the bill be held at the desk until friday. july 30. for cosponsors. under current law. neither the district commissioners  povertystricken families have any real weapon with which to fight against the apathy. inertia. or outright refusal of owners of slum property to bring it up to minimum standards for human occupation. my bill would authorize the district commissioners to make repairs on uninhabitable washington slum dwellings and charge the landlords for the work. in addition to allowing the city to repair substandard rental housing and charge the owner. the bill would prohibit slum landlords from evicting or raising the rent for tenants who have complained about housing conditions. also. the bill would provide relocation payments by the city of up to $200 to tenants forced to move because a building is condemned or is being repaired. recent articles in the washington evening star and washington post called attention to what has been described as washingtons "housing crisis." i ask unanimous consent that the articles be inserted in the record at the end of my remarks.
there are times when a transient majority ought  to be permitted to govern the lives of all the people or any one person. it occurs to me that perhaps it was  altogether fortunate that the people of california.  many months ago. decided to adopt a state constitutional amendmentor was it a referendum.-i have forgotten which. in any event. the effect of the vote. as i understand. was to eliminate a fair housing law. is that correct.
. at its next printing. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from new york be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide for repair by the district of columbia. at the expense of the owner. of buildings violating the district of columbia housing regulations. and to make tenants evicted from unsafe and insanitary buildings in the district of columbia eligible for relocation payments.
. i commend my colleague from minnesota on his statement. i am glad to join with him and other colleagues to urge enactment of meaningful legislation to insure both fair and open housing for all americans. there can be doubt that unequal housing. resulting from discriminatory and closed housing policies. contributes to the intolerable conditions of life in many of this nations greatest urban areas. the impacted racial ghetto. with its segregated overcrowded living conditions. inherently unequal schools. unemployment and underemployment. appalling mortality and health statistics. inevitably gives rise to hopelessness. bitterness. and. yes. even open rebellion of those imprisoned within its confines. surrounded by affluent suburbia. is it any wonder the ghettos of our cities seethe with explosive discontent. racial alienation. and tension. it is an ironic and bitter fact that the federal government has helped to build our urban ghettos. both directly and indirectly. in some cases. federal financing of public housing. coupled with enforcement of executive order  11063. has brought increased segregation in socalled vertical slums. in other cases. urban renewal projects have displaced hundreds and thousands of persons and left them choice but to crowd into already overcrowded slums. it is  lack of money alone that prevents the ghetto resident from moving out. time and time again. it has been demonstrated that he is likely to pay a disproportionate rent for a squalid dwelling place. rather. it is a bar based on color alone that. regardless of other factors. makes it so difficult for the negro to secure decent housing. some of the states already have open housing legislation. in my own state of new jersey our statutes trace back to 1950. but progress is still agonizingly slow. it proceeds on a casebycase basis and puts upon the member of the miity group a heavy burden of proof. for example. if i may at this point. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record an article from the new york times of august 16 which relates the story of two negro sisters who have been thwarted 3 years in efforts to buy a house. this is in a state which has what is regarded as a more modern fair housing law.
. the time has come for effective action which will apply equally to all those engaged in the rental or sale of real property. i am delighted that hearings are  scheduled on s. 1358. for i believe that together with equal opportunity for education and jobs. equal opportunity for decent housing is at the top of the problems confronting the nation.
i thank the senator. . i believe that the senator from alabama hit the nail on the head when he said that it is inconceivable that the committee would take a futile action. i believe that the crux of the matter is whether or  a 5percent requirement would effectively bar any substantial amount of housing under the program with which we are dealing. if that is so. it can be assumed that the committee or the members of this body would intend that result.
 johnson and the actions of federal agencies charged with the execution of these policies. the committees report stated further: more disturbing and more harmful than the industrys disregard to the imperatives of the executive order have been the inertia. obstruction and lack of sympathy the american friends service committee has found in the two federal agencies charged with primary responsibility for enforcing the discrimination and equal opportunity requirements in federally assisted housing. the story with respect to public housing is an equally dismal tale. again. let me cite an example from my own state. in july 1966. i wrote to the department of housing and urban development with regard to testimony before the new jersey advisory committee to the u.s. civil rights commission which indicated that public housing in the city of newark was becoming more rather than less segregated and that policies of the local housing authority were in large part responsible. it took 6 months before hud replied and its reply. i regret to say. was misleading to say the least. i was totally unable to discern in it any real concern for the central problem. rather. its whole thrust was to present the housing authority in a creditable light. emphasizing its good intentions and deemphasizing. indeed omitting. many salient facts. since then. many of these facts have been made plain in the ugly riots that occurred in newark last summer and in the report just released of the govers commission to inquire into the causes of the riot. the letter i received from hud reads. in part. as follows: our new york office made a special review of the newark housing authoritys compliance with title vi of the 1964 civil rights act and we have analyzed their findings as well as other data available to us. our new york office has concluded. and we concur. that the newark housing authority is fully aware of its responsibilities under title vi. and that it is attempting to make progress toward achieving open occupancy and racially balanced tenancy despite difficulties occasioned by population shifts. traditional biases and social behavior patterns and problems. we do  mean to represent or imply that the racial distribution of the newark housing authority tenant body leaves hing to be desired. there are five projects in newarks central ward which are over 90 percent negrooccupied. there are five projects in other parts of the city which are less than 10 percent negrooccupied. the racial distribution of tenants in the authoritys other seven projects shows more racially balanced proportions. the reasons for this distribution appear to be related to factors which have little to do with the housing authoritys tenant selection practices or with changes in its regulations. we are enclosing with this letter a summary of the newark program which serves as a substantiation for our conclusions. when i submitted this report to the chairman of the new jersey advisory committee hearing. i was advised thatprogress has been made in achieving racial balance in the last four years. since the u.s. commission hearings in september 1962. in newark. at that time there were 14 projects in newark under the authorityfour of them over 90% white and 2 over 90% white. at that time the annced policy for integration. as stated on page 127 of the commission hearings. was this: "... if an apartment adjacent to a negro family were offered to a white family and it was refused on that ground. or vice versa. the refusing family should  be accorded the opportunity to choose aher apartment. if such were available." . we have 17 projects under the newark authority. 5 are over 90% white. 5 are over 90% white. in july 1966. at the public meeting of the n.j. advisory committee to the u.s. commisison on civil rights. reference was made by a committee member to the policy described above (page 213 et seq.) and this was the answer (page 216): "our policy on integrating the projects from 1950 for a number of years thereafter was the policy you have read. we havent that policy of compulsion any more." and. page 217. "if they were to refuse and we exercised the policy by  giving themthat would be a denial to them of public housing at all." (transcript of committee meeting.) aher excerpt from the hud report: the housing authority has developed five additional projects in various sections of the city. these projects show varying proportions of negro occupancy. ranging from 21 to 81 percent. the comment from the advisory committee chairman: this paragraph is misleading. five projects were  mentioned. it should have read. "there are 9 other projects5 over 90% white. one 79% and 3 over 60%." at the time that i inquired as to the authoritys practices. i also submitted a long list of allegations with regard to the maintenance and administration of the buildings. they included serious charges of corruption and failure to provide police protection to residents. since july 1966. i have been in repeated touch with hud to ascertain the results of its investigation. finally. in january 1967. i received this reply: we have just received from the inspection division. hud. a closed report of investigation regarding activities of the housing authority of the city of newark. new jersey. which is being reviewed by our new york regional office. as soon as we receive a final disposition report from that office we will be glad to report to you on the matter. i have had word since. despite continuing efforts to secure the report promised. perhaps  that the govers commission has recommended a grand jury or other appropriate official investigation into similar charges. the department can be stirred to interest itself in the matter. for their guidance. they could well use the outline of his testimony presented to the 1966 hearing of the new jersey advisory committee by the pastor of an abyssinian baptist church in newark. it reads: outline
. i was deeply disturbed by the cuts made in a number of our important urban programs by the conference action on the independent offices appropriations billh.r. 17023which has  cleared congress. this measure provides funds for the department of housing and urban development. which was created by congress in 1965 to coordinate and lead the federal governments attack on the problems of urban and suburban america. because of my concern about the worsening problems of our growing metropolitan areas. i urged the creation of such a department long before it was proposed by the present administration. since hud came into being. i have supported full funding of the vital community development and housing programs it administers. two key programs in huds arsenal are model cities and rent supplements. model cities is designed to attack neighborhood problems. including poverty. unemployment and substandard housing. in a comprehensive. coordinated manner as opposed to the fragmented approaches taken in previous years. rent supplements is an extension of the public housing program. but substitutes private initiative for government action in the construction or rehabilitation and management of lowcost rental units. in fiscal 1969. both of these programs should begin moving into high gear. but if they are to make meaningful contributions to the improvement of the quality of life in our metropolitan areas. they will require greater amounts of federal financial assistance than congress so far has been willing to provide. an important adjunct to these programs is the new fair housing law which prohibits discrimination in the sale and rental of housing. under the law. hud is supposed to participate in its enforcement through conciliation. mediation and broadly based educational activities which. of course. will require adequate funds to carry out effectively. as a member of the appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over h.r. 17023. i voted for full funding of the model cities and rent supplement programs. although  entirely satisfied. i accepted the compromise $9 million for fair housing enforcement. these amounts. i am glad to say. were approved by the full committee on appropriations and later by the senate. but the conference action on h.r. 17023 undoes much of the good work of the senate. model cities is slashed from $1 billion to $625 million. rent supplements is cut from the senate level of $65 million to $30 million. most shocking. fair housing enforcement receives hing at all. almost casually congress took this step which comes close to repeal of this program. other valuable programs. such as urban planning grants and urban information and technical assistance. also suffer substantial reductions as the result of the conference action. the legislation authorizing these and other programs represents a commitment on the part of congress to begin the emous job of making our urban and suburban areas more decent places to live and work.  congress at this critical juncture in our domestic history has gone back on that commitment by depriving these programs of adequate appropriations and. in some cases. of any appropriations at all. how can we brush off with half measures. or with measures at all. the critical needs of our metropolitan areas and of the millions of underprivileged citizens living in central city ghettoes. i strongly urge that the administration move to make up these deficiencies that i have outlined by submitting additional funding requests to congress. as a member of the senate committee on appropriations. i shall do all i can to see to it that its requests are acted upon promptly and affirmatively. restoration of the funds for these urban programs is possible without exceeding the expenditures and appropriations reductions previously laid down by congress.
. i offer this amendment on behalf of myself and my colleagues. the senator from new jersey and the senator from pennsylvania . the purpose of the amendment is a very simple one. it has come to my attention particularly because of a situation which has arisen in the city of newark where we are increasingly faced with a situation involving a heavy concentration of schoolage children in federally subsidized housing projects. the situation contributes directly to the overcrowding of certain of our schools. in newark. for example. an elementary school across the street from one such housing project is designed for 1.600 students. the school  has 1.800 students already enrolled. there are 2.300 youngsters in the neighborhood. in fact. the entire city of newark has 10.000 more youngsters than it has classroom seats. the housing law  permits dwelling facilities. community facilities. and even some commercial facilities in federally subsidized housing projects. but the law contains language specifically authorizing the use of federally subsidized housing projects for classroom facilities. this amendment is intended to remedy that defect. i might say here that the newark board of education and the housing authority in newark have come to an understanding about the facilities which can be used and can be leased by the board of education and be paid for with satisfactory rental pay. the board of education. the mayor. and the school people came down to see the officials in hud. they were sympathetically received. but were told that hud was reluctant. without congressional authority in this matter of schools. to go ahead. the amendment leaves the matter entirely at the discretion of the secretary of housing and urban development. it is  mandatory. hud has full authority under the amendment. or would have. to establish the regulations which would have to be complied with. where schools are overcrowded because of the large number of children living in nearby federally subsidized housing projects. this amendment would permit the use of a portion of these housing facilities for classroom purposes. the house banking and currency committee. which is still considering the housing act of 1970 in executive session. has accepted this amendment and has written it into the final version of the bill. i think there is question about the importance of this  only in new jersey. in the city of newark. and other cities. but also in many places throughout the country. i hope very much that the committee would be willing to accept the amendment. the exact language which i have offered here has been incorporated in the house bill. as i say.
. i appreciate the comments of the senator from new york and his efforts in this regard. i agree with the senator. we will  win this time. but there will be aher year. the only question that i have at all concerning anything that he said in his eloquent remarks is something that i think the senator from illis is anxious to say himself. this does  affect only the cities. there are public housing installations in many of the small towns. we have something like 60 small towns in new jersey that will benefit in large me sure from the $60 million if it were to be included in the measure
. today i am introducing legislation to provide more effective protection under the federal flood insurance law. in recent weeks many states. including my own state of new jersey. have experienced extensive damage caused by flooding. unfortunately. efforts to repair the damage have been. in many cases. thwarted by an obscure provision of the federal flood insurance act. this provision. called the duplication of federal benefits. penalizes those homeowners and businessmen who did  buy coverage in communities where the insurance has been available for more than a year. the national flood insurance program was established under the housing and urban development act of 1968 to make available limited amounts of flood insurance to property owners and small businessmen in areas certified as flood prone by the federal insurance administration. it is estimated that about 7.000 communities could qualify for certification as flood prone areas. but only 720 communities have been certified. moreover. the rate of increase in communities approved has been about 4 percent per month. as of july 31. 1971. approximately 73.700 insurance policies had been issued. in august of 1971. the total number of insurance policies issued actually fell 2 percent. to a level of approximately 72.100 policies. even as the number of participlating communities rose 3 percent. in new jersey. following the recent floods it was found that only 64 communities were certified and only 6.000 policies in those areas had actually been taken out. such limited participation in the program is disappointing. although understandable. the federal insurance program is hardly 3 years old. i am advised by private insurance experts that it takes about 5 years for new types of insurance to become generally kn to the public. but much of the problem lies in certain requirements of the program itself. under current provisions of the law. after a community has enrolled for 1 years time in the food insurance program. individuals are excluded from receiving financial disaster assistance. as george bernstein. the federal insurance administration. recently pointed out: if there is a lapse since the individual was eligible for the coverage and he has failed to purchase it. under the present provisions of the act. that person is denied financial federal disaster relief to the extent that he could have purchased the federal flood insurance. i believe this provision is an inequitable provision. its unenforceable on a reasonable basis. and it is detrimental to the long range purpose of the flood insurance program and i would like to see congress repeal it. this is a forthright statement by the federal insurance administrator. and we can see the injustice reflected statistically in the few policies purchased and the decline in policy purchases. a good example is the case of elizabeth. n.j.. where the recent storms flooded 10.000 homes. elizabeth is a certified community. it has a population of 112.000 yet only 19 insurance policies have been issued under the flood insurance act. well over 99 percent of the families in elizabeth have protection whatever. cases similar to elizabeth exist throughout my state and throughout the nation. the bill i submit today requires a 2year suspension of duplication of federal benefits provision of the federal insurance law. this suspension will be retroactive to enable those who have sufmarkets and leading firms fered to apply for financial disaster assistance. a second provision of my bill will extend for 2 years the period of time within which communities must adopt land use and control measures. without the extension. communities who apply for certification after december 31. 1971. will have to demonstrate that they have already implemented flood abatement and control procedures. extension will allow communities in new jersey and the other states that should but are   in the flood program to join the program under the relatively simple procedures that are currently required to achieve this purpose. in my own state at least 277 communities should be certified for federal flood insurance protection. a third provision of my bill will broaden the insurance coverage. the existing law protects only dwelling units up to four families. my bill will allow insurance coverage for all residential dwelling units. including multifamily dwellings such as garden apartments. consistent with this change. my bill will add to the present $17.500 aggregate liability for any dwelling unit and $30.000 for any structure containing more than one. $10.000 for each unit of housing in excess of two. the national flood insurance act of 1968 is a good program. it provides insurance where there was once e. but as we have learned by experience. it needs revision to become fully effective. the legislation i propose will provide relief to those who have suffered from the recent flood disasters and at the same time encourage wider participation in the future. by mr. ervin:
i would like to direct a question to the manager of this bill. is my understanding correct that. in its present form. the bill would provide funds for the impacted aid program for public housing students and that the amount provided could  be less than 90 percent of the $10 million that was provided in the vetoed bill.
. or his delegate will specify which states are affected by the control program. my amendment also makes the federal program on rents retroactive to the end of phase ii and provides that landlords refund or credit any overcharges that may have been made since the elimination of the phase ii program. this will act as a brake on those individuals who may desire to increase rents beyond the scope of the restraints imposed by the rent control program. moreover. all rental housing in a low vacancy state will fall under the purview of the federal program except where local rent control statutes provide for rent increases smaller than those permitted by the federal government. unlike other aspects of the phase ii ecoic program. the rent control program was exceedingly generous to the landlord. for example. on a 1 year lease it allowed the landlord to increase his base rent 2.5 percent. it permitted the landlord also to pass along any increased amount he paid for taxes or municipal services. as well as the cost of capital improvements. my amendment retains this formula. however. it is important to point out that this formula took effect only after an earlier set of federal regulations sanctioned very high rent increases. ironically. setting "base rents" at high levels. allowed landlords to justify higher increases than they might otherwise have dared. only in recent months can it be said that both landlord and tenant have been treated fairly under the federal program. under the improved federal program. the landlord was still able to make a profit and keep his property in good order. what was  allowed were exorbitant rent increases carried out to raise capital for other ventures. rent payers in low vacancy areas are understandably apprehensive about their future. without the federal protection previously afforded them. they are at the mercy of the landlord. hundreds who complained of unfair or illegal rent increases under the phase ii program. those who reported violations. are  being harassed. many face eviction proceedings or unconscionable rent increases. many others who may have mally been protected by long term leases have found a clause in their lease that allows their landlord again to raise rents after the federal controls expire. i am told there are many thousands with leases of this kind in new jersey the federal rent control program was designed to stabilize rents and to protect tenants. neither goal will be met by the total elimination of the rent control program. indeed. the exact opposite will take place. i am sure that hundreds of thousands of rent payers share my deep disappointment over the abrupt end of the federal rent control program. like all citizens. those who are rent payers are entitled to fair treatment by the government. they are  getting it. it is my hope that the members of the senate. understanding the consequences of the closedown of this federal program. will act promptly to restore the federal rent control program.
. since the end of the phase ii ecoic control program thousands of tenants have received ice ofor already are payingoutrageous increases in rent. public confidence in the fairness and equity of the entire federal control program has been seriously eroded. while many in government speak in statistical terms the end of the federal control program on rent is also a story of human fear and desperation especially for older people. high rent increases immediately undo what all of us in congress have worked to achieveto provide older people with the financial protection they need to live out their lives comfortably and constructively. it is shocking the federal rent control program has been ended. the measure of the shock is best reflected by the voices of the elderly and their friends. i would like to put on the record some of the facts as told to me by senior citizens in new jersey: dear senator case: i would like to bring this to your attention. my rent was raised $39 (since the end of phase ii). from $158 per month to $185 per month. and being a senior citizen on a small fixed income. i simply can pay this increase. what is an old woman to do with a small income. she certainly cant get aher apartment as there are e to be had.
this table shows where the apartment housing shortage is most critical. i am told that the census bureau is preparing a 1972 update and as soon as it is available i will present the information to congress. but the 1970 information is still a good guide. particularly when one reviews the general 1972 updated information that is available. it shows an average vacancy rate for the fourth quarter of 1972 in standard metropolitan statistical areas of 5.4 percent. and. as the u.s. savings and loan league reported in its 1973 annual report: even rental unit vacancy rates have  increased much. despite the record construction of rental units. at 5.8 percent in the third quarter of 1972. the vacancy rate is still well below the average level which prevailed from 1958 to 1967. moreover. the vacancy rate in the united states as a whole dropped from 5.8 percent in the third quarter to 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 1972. this is. of course. partly because of the pressure of population and also. in the case of apartment dwellings. because of the rising cost of home buying and mortgage interest rates. it suggests how critical the housing market is and the. terrible bind that apartment renters face across the united states. any statistical measure. as .we all k. has its shortcomings. high rent increases have been reported in areas where the "statistical" vacancy rate is  so low. any number of conditions may account for thisgeographic and transportation considerations. the condition of the housing. proximity to shopping and services needed. individual taste and discrimination. but the enactment of formal controls in low vacancy areas will go a long way to solving the problems facing rent payers. moreover. our rent measure in way precludes enforcement of socalled general standards in areas where exorbitant increases may be found. this power is conferred under the general language of the ecoic stabilization act. exhirr 1 rental vacancy rates. 1970. by standard metropolitan statistical areas [percent vacancy] abilene. tex --------------------12.6 akron. ohio ------------------------- 6.0 albany. ga ----------------------8.4 albany/schenectady. troy. n.y ------- 5.3 albuquerque. n. mex ---------------- 5.5 allentown/beth./easton. pa./n.j ---- 4.2 altoona. pa --------------------- 4.2 amarillo. tex --------------------15.1 anaheim. santa ana/garden grove. calif -------------------------7.5 anderson. ind --------------------9.0 ann arbor. mich --------------------5.1 appleton/oshkosh. wis --------------3.7 asheville. n.c ----------------------7.5 atlanta. ga ------------------------6.2 atlantic city. n.j ------------------10.6 augusta. ga./s.c -------------------1 0 austin. tex -----------------------11.1 bakersfield. calif -------------------7.5 baltimore. md ---------------------- 5.3 baton rouge. la -------------------- 13.9 bay city. mich -------------------8.2 beaumont/port arthur/orange. tex__ 11.2 billings. mont ----------------------5.8 biloxi/gulfport. miss --------------- 11.0 binghampton. n.y./pa ---------------6.4 birmingham. ala --------------------6.3 bloomington/mal. il --------------4.7 boise city. idaho -------------------- 4.3 boston. mass ----------------------- 4.2 bridgeport. conn -------------------- 3.1 bristol. conn -----------------------5.4 brockton. mass ---------------------- 4.3 brownsville/harlington. tex --------- 14.4 bryancollege station. tex -----------9.3 buffalo. n.y ---------------------4.5 canton. ohio --------------------- 6.1 cedar rapids. iowa ---------------10.8 champaign. urbana. ill ------------3.4 charleston. s.c ------------------12.3 charleston. w. va ------------------- 6.3 charlotte. n.c --------------------6.4 chattoa. tenn./ga -------------- 8.0 chicago. ill ---------------------6 4 cincinnati. ohio/ky./ind -----------6.8 cleveland. ohio ------------------6.2 colorado springs. colo -------------- 9.4 columbia. mo ----------------------- 7.7 columbia. s.c --------------------88 columbus. ga./ala ------------------ 9.9 columbus. ohio -6-----------------corpus christi. tex ---------------12.6 dallas. tex --------------------- 10.4 danbury. conn ---------------------- 4.5 davenport/rock island/moline iowaill.------------------------------ 9.0 dayton. ohio ---------------------- 5.1 decatur. ill ------------------------6.0 denver. colo ------------------------ 5.2 des moines. iowa ------------------- 8.4 detroit. mich ---------------------- 7.8 dubuque. iowa ---------------------- 5.5 duluth. superior. minn.. wlsc -------- 6.3 durham. n.c ----------------------5. 1 el paso tex ------------------------6.4 erie. pa ---------------------------- 5.7 eugene. oreg ----------------------4.9 evansville. ind./ky ------------------7.4 falls river mass./r.i ----------------3.1 fargo/moorhead. n. dak.. minn ------- 7.1 fayetteville. n.c --------------------9.4 fitchberg. leominster. mass ----------- 5.8 flint. mich ------------------------ 7.4 fort lauderdale/hollywood. fla ----- 12.3 fortsmith. ark.. okla --------------- 8.6 fort wayne. ind --------------------9.9 fort worth. tex --------------------- 12.2 fres calif ----------------------- 5.9 gadsden. ala ---------------------- 6.9 galveston. texas city. tex ------------ 9.7 gainesville. fla --------------------- 9.3 gary. hammond. east chicago. ind .... 6.2 grand rapids. mich ----------------- 10.0 great falls. mont ------------------- 6.0 green bay. wis ---------------------- 4.9 greensboro/winston salem. n.c ------- 5.6 greenville. s.c ----------------------8.2 hamilton. middletown. ohio ---------- 5.3 harrisburg. pa ---------------------- 4.5 hartford. conn ---------------------- 3.6 houlu. hawaii --------------------4.5 houston. tex -----------------------11.6 huntingtonashland. w. va./ky./ohio_ 8.4 huntsville. ala ---------------------- 8.7 indianapolis. ind ----------------- 10.4 jackson. mich ---------------------- 6.4 jackson. miss ----------------------- 8.1 jacksonville. fla -------------------11. 6 jersey city. n.j --------------------- 2.9 johnstown. pa --------------------- 4.1 kalamazoo. mich --------------------6.5 kansas city. mo.-kans ---------------1 10.2 keha. wis ----------------------- 3.9 kville. tenn --------------------- 8.5 la crosse. wis ---------------------- 5.0 lafayette. la ----------------------- 9.2 lafayette. w. lafayette. ind ----------- 7. 1 lake charles. la -------------------10.8 lancaster. pa ----------------------- 3.4 lansing. mich ----------------------- 7.2 laredo. tex ------------------------ 6.2 las vegas. nev ---------------------- 6.3 lawrencehaverhill. massn.h -------- 6.9 lawton. okla ---------------------- 12.6 lewistonauburn. maine -------------- 7.7 lexington. ky ----------------------12.7 lima. ohio ------------------------- 6.0 lincoln. neb ----------------------- 7.6 little rock. ark -------------------- 8.2 lorain. elyria. ohio ------------------ 7. 1 los angeles. long beach. calif -------- 5.2 louisville. ky./ind ------------------7.0 lowell. mass ----------------------- 5.2 lubbock. tex ----------------------1 10.6 lynchburg va --------------------- 7.4 macon. ga ------------------------- 9.7 madison. wis ----------------------- 4.5 manchester. n.h ---------------------5.4 mansfield. ohio --------------------- 6.7 mcallenpharr. tex -----------------1 10.7 memphis. tenn./ark ---------------- 5.4 meridan. conn --------------------- 4.2 miami. fla ------------------------- 5.2 midland. tex ----------------------- 15.7 milwaukee. wis --------------------- 4.7 minneapolisst. paul. minn ---------- 5.3 mobile. ala -------------------------- 10.0 modesto. calif -------------------- 5.9 monroe. la ------------------------- 9.9 montgomery. ala -------------------- 12. 2 muncie. ind ---------------------7.2 muskegon. mich --------------------7. 1 nashua. n.h ----------------------- 8.9 nashville. davidson. tenn ------------ 7.2 new bedford. mass ------------------- 3.3 new britain. conn ------------------- 4.1 new haven. conn -------------------- 4.4 new london. groton. wich. conn--- 6.8 new orleans. la --------------------- 8.9 new york. n.y ---------------------2.1 newark. n.j ------------------------2.8 newport news. hampton. va ---------- 7.4 folkportsmouth. va --------------5.6 walk. conn --------------------- 2.6 odessa. tex -----------------------15.4 ogden. utah ----------------------- 6.9 oklahoma city. okla --------------- 11.5 omaha. nebraska/iowa -------------- 7.8 orlando. fla ----------------------- 12.5 owensboro. ky ---------------------7.9 oxnardventura. calif ---------------4.9 patersoncliftonpassaic. n.j ----------1.5 pensacola. fla ----------------------12.1 exhrnrr 1--continued rental vacancy rates. 1970. by standard metropolitan statistical areascon. peoria. ill --------------------------6.0 petersburgcolonial heights. va ------- 6.3 philadelphia. pa./n.j ----------------5.0 phoenix. ariz ---------------------- 7.2 pine bluff. ark --------------------- 10.8 pittsburgh. pa ---------------------- 5.8 pittsfield. mass .--------------------- 4.5 portland. maine --------------------6.4 portland. oreg./wash ---------------7.4 providence/pawtucket. r.i.. mass ---- 5.6 provo. utah ------------------------ 3.7 pueblo. colo ------------------------7.5 racine. wis ------------------------4.8 raleigh. n.c ------------------------ 6.0 reading. pa -----------------------3.6 re nev -------------------------5.6 richmond. va --------------------- 5.6 roae. va ----------------------- 6.7 rochester. minn -------------------- 8.6 rochester. n.y ---------------------4.9 rockford. ill -----------------------9.2 sacramento. calif -------------------6.2 saginaw. mich --------------------- 6.0 st. joseph. mo ---------------------10.7 st. louis. mo./ill --------------------9.6 salem. oreg ------------------------6.2 salinasmonterey. cauf -------------- 4.4 salt lake city. utah ---------------- 4.5 san angelo. tex ---------------------9.2 san antonio. tex -------------------- 9.4 san fernandoriverside. calif --------- 4.6 san diego. calif -------------------- 6.9 san francisco. oakland. calif --------- 4.6 san jose. calif ---------------------6.4 santa barbara. calif -----------------5.3 santa rosa. calif -------------------- 5.4 savannah. ga ---------------------- 7.5 scranton. pa -----------------------4.0 seattle. everett. wash --------------- 13.2 shermandenison. tex -------------- 11.1 shreveport. la --------------------- 10.6 sioux city. iowanebr --------------- 11.0 sioux falls. s. dak ------------------ 7.0 south bend. ind --------------------6.9 spokane. wash --------------------- 7.2 springfield. ill --------------------- 6.4 springfield. mo --------------------- 7.1 springfield. ohio -------------------- 5.7 springfield. holyoke mass./conn ---- 6.2 stanford. conn --------------------2.4 steubenville ohio/w. va -------------5.8 stockton. calif --------------------- 5.9 syracuse. n.y ---------------------- 6.5 tacoma. wash ---------------------10.3 tallahassee. fla -------------------- 6. 1 tampast. petersburg. fla ----------- 10.5 terre haute. ind --------------------7.6 texarkana. ark -------------------- 11.2 toledo. ohio. mich ----------------- 5.4 topeka. kans ---------------------- 5.4 trenton. n.j ----------------------- 3.2 tucson. ariz ----------------------- 8.0 tulsa. okla ----------------------- 12.5 tuscaloosa. ala ---------------------9.6 tyler. tex ------------------------- 8.7 uticarome. n.y --------------------5.0 vallejonapa. calif ------------------5.1 vinelandmillevillebridgeton. n.j --- 5.2 waco. tex ------------------------12.3 washington. d.c./md./va ------------- 4.4 waterbury. conn -------------------- 6.1 waterloo. iowa --------------------- 6.0 west palm beach. fla -------------- 10.7 wheeling. w. va./ohio -------------- 6.6 wichita. kans ---------------------11.0 wilkesbarreharrisburg. pa ----------3.8 wilmington del.-n.j. md -------------5.6 wilmington. n.c -------------------14.0 worcester. mass --------------------3.8 york. pa ---------------------------- 3.1 youngstownwarren. ohio ------------5.0 [from the washington post. feb. 24. 1973]
we are in position obviously. in looking over this setup.  having been in the hearings. to k what these people are doing. i happen to be one who is convinced that we have to have rent control and i do  feel we can have rent control by hobbling the opa so that it does a bad job of administration. therefore. i ask the gentleman this question: is the gentleman convinced. as a result of the hearings. that the opa will be able to carry on its rentcontrol functions until june 30. 1947. yet give landlords who have true hardship cases adequate and rapid egh satisfaction so .that we will  have the unnecessary pressure from them to do away with the opa and rent control. which the people in my district are about 95 percent for.
 do i understand the gentleman then to assure usand the gentleman ks that i have very hiah regard for his assurancethat he is convinced that opa can do the rent control job with the funds which will be available to it after the passage of this bill.
 i said $2.500 to $3.000. if the gentleman will figure out the average city familys budget. he will see exactly what i meanthere is margin for rent increases. that is the hard fact. the main point in this whole bill is that it does. in substance. continue the rentcontrol situation on presently occupied rental housing as is. that situation must be continuedthere can be question about that. with all the discussion that has taken place on the floor about how there can be more housing. the answer is that there is more housing  and matter what you do. there can be little more housing until the time when the controls under this bill will have expired. it can take less than from 9 months to a year. and will probably take much longer. for anything to manifest itself so far as an improvement in the housing situation is concerned. we have to take care of the people in the more than 16.000.000 rental units which we  have occupied. and must act upon the facts as they are .  as they will be in the future. i feel very badly and i think every veteran feels very badly about what i call the american tragedy of housing. the tragedy is that of every veteran living in substandard housing or doubled up with relatives. who can walk down fifth avenue and see that a new york department store has put up a new magnificent building. and yet be told that it is impossible to construct an ordinary home for ordinary fellows who fought the war. one of the great defects of this bill is that it fails to tighten up on that situation. if this whole title i were stricken out of the bill it would be a much better bill. nevertheless. i would like to point out in fairness to the committee that at least they have done one thing. if hing else. and that is they have continued to face realistically the rental situation by holding on to the control. a relaxation of which to an emous proportion of the families of american would mean the difference between ecoic life and death.
i have in my district five colleges and universities vitally interested in this legislation. may i ask the gentleman whether consideration has been given to how the barracks and other temporary structures which are available but will  be used under this program will be put to use for housing in view of the fact that housing is so urgently necessary. despite the expense.
 of the committee has told us there are about 3.700 structures which will  be put up. althought the walls and necessary physical structure are available. because it costs too much. we k very well that if these structures are  erected under this program it is  going to be done for a long time. because some other way must be found by these institutions to do it. i have communications from my district pleading for housing for student veterans. i think .his is time. in the interest of the veterans of this country. to stop because it will cost a couple of thousand dollars more to build each unit. the important thing  is to get these accommodations. therefore. i intend to support this amendment on that ground. it is a question of getting the housing for he veterans when it is available. because if it is  gotten  it will be wasted.
may i bring the gentleman back to that point and ask this question. did the committee consider two points. one. whether these housing agencies could be equipped to do something about getting more housing. especially for veterans and. second. whether the way in which their appropriations are handled will equip them better toward that end or will it deprive them of any ability to do more than they are doing  about it.
. considering what has occurred in landlordtenant relations. and in housing since the house first acted on h. r. 3203. the bill dealt with in this conference report. i feel i must oppose the report. as a tenant myself. i think it should be clear that i do  intend to sign a lease if this bill should become law. as i consider it unnecessary. so long as federal rent control continues. i need lease to guarantee continued occupancy of my apartment. should such federal rent control go off on february 29. 1948. as provided by the terms of this billwhich would  be justified as long as the critical housing shortage continuesi will have the new york state rentcontrol law to fall back on. and will still need lease. the new york state law expires june 30. 1948. but i believe that we must. and therefore shall continue to have rent control in new york until the housing shortage is relieved sufficiently to allow freedom of negotiation between landlord and tenant. that is  the case  and will probably  be the case by the date provided in this bill. february 29. i trust that it will be made clear to all the people. if this bill should become law. that they are under compulsion to enter into a lease with their landlords and to accept an increase of 15 percent. or any other increase in rent in that way. and that they should  permit themselves to be talked into signing such a lease if they do  wish to do so. it is extremely important that this be made clear so that tenants should  be coerced by unscrupulous landlords. and honest landlords should  be prejudiced by those who may .seek to take unfair advantage of this bill.
. i am in favor of this bill. and express the hope that the reconstruction finance corporation will use its new powers to help in the solution of americas  1 domestic problem. housing. everything possible should and must be done to help overcome the housing shortage which is undermining the morale and health of millions of veterans and their families and of other citizens. the rfc should use its powers to help bring down the costs of new housing by exuending the necessary financing to new companies which have developed good industrial housing which they are ready to produce if they can get the necessary monetary backing and. who can raise the money through private channels. industrial housing is standardization and preassembly manufacture of parts of a house by productionline methods to be assembled at the site. industrial housing could bring a new chapter in construction methods in the united states and could do much to provide homes for millions of people at prices that they can afford to pay by reducing labor. material. and production costs. labor costs can be reduced because the number of man hours that go into a house assembled from parts produced by machine processes. is less than by traditional manual methods. material costs can be reduced because direct purchases by industrial house manufacturers from material manufacturers eliminate many of the intermediate distribution and middleman costs. production costs can be reduced because of the efficiency of industrial engineering techniques.
. as we approach the end of the session and prepare to go home. members of the house from the big cities and many from rural areas will want to consider what we have done about americas  1 domestic problem and congress  1 domestic "must"-housing. members should  be taken in by the figures showing material gains in money expended for private residential construction in the first 6 months of 1947. as compared with 1946. costs have gone up so high that actual permanent housing units started are very little greater than they were in 1946. and are hing like what they must be if we are to crack the national housing shortage as we cracked the war emergency. from most recent preliminary figures which i have just received. government agencies report the new permanent housing units started in the first 6 months of 1947. as 359.000. only 19.000 more than for the first 6 months of 1946. these figures may be subject to some revision but the trend is clear. if we continue at the present rate we shall continue to have an acute national housing shortage for from 5 to 10 years. it is clear  that action can be expected at this session on the taftellenderwagner comprehensive housing bill. the only alternative is to lay the whole issue bare by a broadscale investigation of every possible reason for the national housing shortage as called for by house resolution 247. this investigation must probe equally into the practices and costs of labor. material suppliers. mortgagers and land sellers. and into the role of government. municipal. state. and federal. in housing. it is gratifying to see that the republican gover of the great state of vermont yesterday joined in the widespread demand for such an investigation.
. as the member who introduced a comprehensive housing billthe taftellenderwagner bill (h. r. 2523. march 12. 1947). which was reported out of the banking and currency committee of the other body. but has  been considered by the same committee in the housewe must be realistic about that. and as the mem-. ber who over a month ago asked for a very comprehensive investigation. of housing (h. res. 247. june 17. 1947). when i was convinced that in other way could we get this comprehensive housing bill passed. i trust i will be pardoned if i ask the members for a little less heat and a little more light on this trying subject. the latest figures on permanent housing unit starts bear out my deep concern that at the present rate we are in for a housing shortage of from 5 to 10 years. for. despite the fact that they are the best figures in years. as has been truly - said here. they still show that we have only started 369.000 permanent housing units in the first 6 months. just 19.000 more than we had started in the first 6 months of 1946. that promises us 750.000 housing units in 1947. when. with our present deplorable situation. which we all realize only too well. we should have started:  less than twice that number in the first 6 months of 1947. and should start riot less than twice that number during the rest of the year. the resolution before us for a joint committee to investigate the national housing shortage is the very least that we must do at this time before the session ends. for i am by  most regretfully convinced that there is chance of passing the- taftellenderwagner bill before this session ends. or passing it at all. without such an investigation. there exists a basic difference of view between some members of congress who sincerely believe that the private building industryfree enterprise almost completely uncontrolled. after the recent enactment of the housing and rentcontrol bill of 1947. will be able to fill our housing needs. perhaps even for the lowerincome groups. too. and those members of whom i am one. who are convinced that the critical housing shortage is a liquidation of the war emergency and that the government must help materially in this emergency. if we needed any proof of that. the desperate plight of the two to four million veterans of world war i1. especially the newly marrieds. living doubled up or in bad housing. would be an eloquent egh answer. i can see how this basic difference of view can be resolved except by laying the whole issue bare in a complete investigation. i am convinced that such an investigation. fair and complete. will uncover facts so drastic as to compel us to pass the taftellenderwagner bill. but we can wait a day beyond the minimum time essential for those members of congress who need to be convinced. to convince themselves that comprehensive housing legislation is essential to a solution of this great emergency problem. house concurrent resolution 104. which we are considering. is a comprehensive one. it permits a probe equally into the costs and practices of labor. of material suppliers. of mortgagors. and of land sellers. it permits inquiry into governmental housing activities. municipal. state. and federal. it permits inquiry into costs of financing and into the capability to deal with the housing shortage of private individuals and of - government entities. it permits a thorough investigation into the archaic municipal building codes. themselves so largely responsible for high construction costs. there are four cautions. however. i would like to leave with the joint committee to be appointed under the resolution. first. i trust that the joint committee will report  on march 15. 1948. the final time limit permitted by the resolutionwe can wait that longbut on january 3. 1948. at the opening of the second session of the eightieth congress. second. though  specifically mentioned in the resolution. that the select committee will consider rural housing inadequacies. both farm and farm. which are very serious. as well as city housing inadequacies for veterans and veterans. . third. that the joint committee will consider maintenance costs and management practices for rental housing. also critically important as an incentive to construction. and which must be considered . fourth. that the operations of the housing and rentcontrol law of 1947. just passed should be taken under review. as we are all aware of the problems and inadequacies which have arisen. the house must e. too. that the joint committee being composed of members of the house banking and currency committee and of the senate banking and currency committee. can bring about necessary legislation promptly in the second session. that is a very important point. they can act on what they find out. and act immediately. the country will have a right to hold congress to strict account on the issue of housing after this investigation. the report of the joint committee. we have a right to expect. will be definite in its recommendations and will assume that degree of responsibility which is commensurate with the seriousness of the problem.
i agree with this bill and think it is fine. is it  necessary. also. in the gentlemans opinion. to state that the joint committee on housing has found in its investigations that there is still an emous demand by veterans for additioning housing. also. has there been any change in the attitude of the american legion on the taftellenderwagner bill.
.  that the supreme court has sustained the federal rentcontrol law and the banking and currency committee proposes to bring in a stopgap 31day extension. it is time to take counsel for the immediate future. fluctuations in the commodity markets are reason for holding up a rentcontrol bill. the housing shortage is still our  1 domestic problem. a lastminute rentcontrol bill will get us into the same trouble as it did before. the 15percent socalled voluntaryincrease provision in the present law. which has caused so much mischief. was largely attributable to the takeitorleaveit basis on which the bill came before us a short time before rent control was to expire. the b~nking and currency committee should rule out at once any acrosstheboard increase. every 5 percent of such an increase will increase the inflationary pressure on tenants in new york city alone to the tune of about $10.000.000 a month. we must have a bill brought in promptly. with adequate time for consideration. it should extend rent control to june 30. 1950or at the least to june 30. 1949with adequate safeguards to recontrol premises decontrolled under the 15percent socalled voluntary agreements. to redress the injury to tenants for landlords failures to redecorate and maintain rented premises. to give tenants fair protection against summary evictions. and to strengthen administration and enforcement of the whole rentcontrol law. according to the latest figures furnished to me. it is estimated that 2.746.000 couples are living doubled up with other couples as of april 1. 1947. and that rents for uncontrolled units like apartment hotels. motor courts. and so forth. are 66 percent higher than comparable controlled units. it wil be a national catastrophe if rent control is  extended with a statesmanlike law and after mature deliberation. and  under a "hobsons choice." as we did before. of having to take an unsatisfactory law or federal rent control at all.
 of the committee on banking and currency on the effect of the rise and fall of commodity markets on rent control. but i do  follow this argument. we must bear in mind that we have rent control because there is a physical housing shortage. the latest figures show that 2.746.000 couples are estimated to be living doubled up with other couples as of april 1. 1947.  you can cure that by rises and falls in commodity markets. you can only deal with the situation by a vastly increased program of housing for which some of us have been fighting right here on this floor and which i hope will very soon get action. i trust that the committee will. first. bring in a bill very promptly to give us an adequate chance to debiate it. anq. -66nwlifae ireal i ogzancetofe difficulties and the injustices which have shown up in the existing law. and will tackle them and correct them. we are f doing a situation where democracy must be flexible egh in view of this drastic housing shortage to endeavor to proyide physical rooms and physical accommodations to meet a pressing shortage. it must be flexible and  so rigid as to destroy itself by denying a measure of justice and accommodation when it encounters that problem.
i believe if the gentleman who is speaking. as well as other members of the congress. will vote for the taftellenderwagner housing bill and will really support a national program of housing cnstruction we can finally lick the housing shortage in under 5 years. . my testimony before the house committee on banking and currency recommending the extension of federal rent control to june 30. 1950 or to at least june 30. 1949. follows: aher year of rent control has passed but we find the problem with us is just as much of an undiminished emergency. almost exactly the same points which were made in my testimony before the committee on march 28. 1947. are still valid today. the extension of federal rent control continues to be a "must" ecoically for the whole country and rent controls remains the last barrier to a galloping inflation. when i testified before. the cost of living bad skyrocketed by more than 60 percent over 1939 levels and today that figure has materially increased and the cost of food in the familys budget has doubled. with rent as onefifth of the mal budget. 16.000.000 american families can let rentals get away from them. to take off rent controls  would bring about the experience that followed world war iboosts of 50 to 100 percent and rent strikes by tenants. though i come from the state of new york where there is a rentcontrol law and where there will be rent control even in the absence of a federal law. people in my district are deeply concerned with rent control on the national level because of the impact it has on inflation and the whole cost of living. federal rent control has worked on the whole and although there are some landlords who complain. comparative profit levels continue to be good in the absence of vacancies and with a minimum of maintenance generally being undertaken by landlords. relief for hardship cases has been generally available and many rent increases have been granted by the housing expediteralso about 10 percent of homes are  under leases made pursuant to the existing public law 129 of the eightieth congress including the 15 percent rent increase. as a matter of fact. as i shall e later. tenants have far more trouble with rent readjustments to which they are entitled than landlords and the law should protect them better. two points made with respect to the extension of the law must be immediately considered. one is the matter of a argpg.the. -rd-]yd~~i thamerican people generally have an antipathy for any such blanket treatment. and indeed it is indefensible. for it would bring a windfall to some landlords while it would  help others egh. selection on a casebycase basis is our mal course and should continue to be followed. it has also been stated that rent control should be sent back to. be administered by the states. but this is  a good solution for two reasons: 1. the problem of inflation is national and the housing shortage is national. uniform standards of control are therefore essential if we are  to make for glaring inequities in the different states. 2. there are bound to be serious gaps as most states do  have adequate rentcontrol laws or machinery for its administration and would be caught as they were during the few weeks in the fall of 1946. when the opa was  renewed. without any rent control whatsoever. the housing shortage is still with ustwo to four million families are still doubled up or living in substandard homes. the emous veterans demands for housing are largely undersupplied. and the emergency which makes national rent control essential is just as acute as it was when the bill was passed last june. coming  to public law 129 itself and its extension. i recommend a number of amendments to cure manifest inequities: title iinsert in subsection b (1) in the fifth line after the word "for" the words "commercial purposes or." this will bring the allocation of building materials for commercial purposes under control. there are area shortages in many things like hardwood flooring. plumbing fixtures. soil pipe. nails. and other items. while the housingconstruction picture has improvedbut only modestly - commercial construction has climbed emously. so that at a current annual rate of $4.000.000.000 it will attain a new high in relation to housing construction of 86.000.000.000 this year. our people have a right to insist on having homes and on the deference of essential commercial construction. i do  advocate that commercial construction be eliminated. i only advocate that each project be reviewed on its merits and that where it is essential. and where there is an appreciable shortage of materials or labor involved which could be better used for housing construction in that area. the particular commercial construction should be deferred. title ii. section 204. should be revised as follows: in subsection (a). line 7. delete "february 29. 1948" and insert at the least "june 30. 1949." in subsection (b). line 9. after the word "inequities". insert "or to compensate tenant for failure of the landlord to suitably maintain any controlled housing accommodations.". and in line 12. delete "december 31. 1947". and insert "december 31. 1948". and in line 16. insert "1949" in lieu of "1948". and in line 25. delete the word "thereafter" and insert "so long as the valid written lease therein referred to remains in effect". and delete the last sentence of this subsection. in sbbsection (f). delete "february 29. 1948" and substitute "june 30. 1950" or at the very least. "june 30. 1949." these amendments have three purposes: 1. to provide that the act shall expire  1 year after its present expiration date. but  less than 1 year and 4 months thereafter. it is clear that congress can act diligently. with adequate time for debate and formulation of legislation. so soon after it convenes in january on such an- important subject as rent control and should have more time to consider renewal or amendment of the act in 2. to redress the injury to tenants of landlords failure to redecorate the premises. tenants in my district are having a great amount of trouble with this matter. land. lords are supposed to redecorate every 8 years. but landlords refuse to do it and during the last year have tried to make this an excuse for getting a socalled voluntary 15percent rent increase through a lease agreement. the tenant should have a right to compensation out of his rent if the landlord fails to decorate or otherwise fails to maintain the rented premises and he should have a speedy administrative remedy. this can only be supplied him in terms of compensation rather than in terms of the long drawt process of seeking a rent reduction. 3. it is of vital importance to protect the 10 percent of tenants who have entered into the socalled voluntary lease agreements providing for 15percent. rent increases. just as i. and many others predicted last spring. rent control will  go off on february 29. 1948. but will have to be continued in view of the continued housing stringency. in my district. i advised every family in writing as to their rights and urged them  to be intimidated into signing one of these 15percent rent increase leases. landlords used all kinds of stratagems. and carefully worded their letters to have coercive effect without actually making any threats to get these leases signed.  these unhappy tenants who did succumb to the pressure of landlords find themselves in decontrolled. apartments. this is quite apart from the frauds practiced between lessees and landlords in collusive leases anti leases with relatives to get apartments decontrolled. under the existing law if for any reason a lease is breached. or an apartment is vacated or if the lease term expires. as many will. during the renewal of this otatute. that apartment is decontrolled. the confusion and unbalance created by controlled and decontrolled apartments in one building would be difficult to picture. but with many of these voluntary 15percent increase leases already in effect. the only way to settle the question is to continue. the rented premises under control once the lease is longer in effect. this makes it possible for the landlord to make a new lease but at greater rental than the old lease specified. it does whatever one can do under the circumstances of the existence of over a million and a half of these leases already. to bring equity into a situation in which there is likely to be outright discrimination unless this amendment is adopted. i also propose an amendment to section 209 by inserting at the end of subsection (a) the following proviso: "provided. however. that any court of competent jurisdiction may stay any proceeding or action by virtue of paragraphs 2. 3. or 4of this section. or any order. judgment. or decree of eviction issued therein for a period of  to exceed 6 months if the tenant for good cause shown is unable to vacate such controlled housing accommodation." the purpose of this amendment is an effort to protect tenants under the difficulty of finding new accommodations. the laws of the state of new york permit a 6month stay in case of eviction (new york civil practice act. sec. l436a). but other states may  have such protection. in view of the impossibility of finding new housing and the possibility of applying for eviction provisions under public law 129 as it stands on grounds other than for breach of tenancy. this is a basic matter. i proposed the same amendment on the floor when the bill was up before and believe that this amendment should be accepted . i have  discussed other matters such as the recontrol of new construction and of hotels. motor courts. etc.. as these have been the subject of local laws in new york and such evidence may best come from those affected in areas where there are local laws. based on the actual experience with the federal law. - in summary. i recommend extension of federal rent control until june 30. 1950. or at the very least to june 30. 1949. and .iqldry ali rep ilt8 g ti f and iiot public law 129. eightieth congrei. as specifically set forth in my statement.
reserving the right to object. . i ask the chairman of the joint committee on housing whether -we will have at this session a comprehensive housing bill covering the various titles which need to be taken up. housing for veterans in the middle income brackets. research. and so forth.. such as are contained in the taftellenderwagner bill. or is it designed to bring up parts of this program by piecemeal legislation. and is the only hope of veterans the taftellenderwagner bill discharge petition if they want a really comprehensive housing bill.
 of the committee on banking and currency spoke on the floor this morning i asked him whether or . even in the case of the wartime draft boards which are rather analogous to the local rentadvisory boards. there was  a right of appeal. obviously there was. there should be here. at least an appeal and the right to make the final decision should be. as it is . in the housing expediter. a high federal government official who ks the whole situation and is sufficiently removed from local influences. that is the least that the people should have. second. i believe that tenants are  adequately protected under this bill with respect to the maintenance of their apartments. in new york city there has arisen a very vicious practice to hold up tenants almost at pistol point. and refuse to paint or redecorate premises. to refuse to do plumbing. or other repairs unless the tenant signed one of these 15percent "voluntary" rent increases. obviously.it is  voluntary if it is made a condition precedent to giving the tenant decent maintenance of his home. third. we have to tighten up on evictions. the eviction provisions of this bill are much too easy. they provide that  only can the landlord get the tenant out if he wants the premises himself. but also that the landlord may put the tenant out if any member of his immediate family wants the premises and that is regardless of whether or  that person moved out of some other housing accommodations just to take this particular place. certainly we want to keep existing tenants in occupancy. if a landlord or members of his family have an existing home they certainly should  be permitted to buy a new apartment building or a new home and oust the existing tenant. yet. this bill permits just that. finally. i think we are very weak on penalties in this bill for violations of the rentcontrol law. if we are going to have rent control we want it obeyed and we want it enforced. we ought to show that we mean what we say when we pass the statute. hence. i believe we must give the administrator at least the powers of enforcement contained in the senate bill and we have to make a violation of the bill distinctly an unlawful act. certain amendments to carry out some of these proposals are as follows: page 17. line 20. after section 2. strike out the sentence and insert "section 1 (b) 1 of the housing and rent act of 1947 is hereby amended by adding before the period at the end thereof a colon and the following: provided. that such permit may also be required as a condition of constructing any building or facilities for commercial purposes. whenever the housing expediter determines that in any geographic area there is a shortage. or there is likely to be a shortage of building material or labor for use in such commercial construction. which will materially interfere with the construction of necessary residential housing which would then otherwise be constructed in such area." page 20. line 5. after the word "inequities" and the comma add the following: "or to compensate tenant for failure of landlord to duly maintain any controlled housing accommodations." page 29. line 24. insert a comma and add before the period "and such longer period  exceeding an additional 120 days as may be granted in its discretion by the court having jurisdiction to issue a judgment of eviction in respect to such housing accommodations." i would like to add one other thing about housing. the committee says in its report that we have doubled the number of houses constructed in 1947 over 1946. and that sounds fineexcept when it is compared to the need. when we recognize that there are two and a half million families. mainly those of veterans. still living doubled up in this country. and when you see the emous demonstration of the demand by veterans for housing of a national veterans housing conference. such as the gentleman from massachusetts and i joined in sponsoring here only 2 weeks ago. where the veterans were demanding a comprehensive national program for housing as contained in the taftellenderwagner bill. you realize how acute that problem is.
. we are by this bill giving the landlords an opportunity to get rent increases due to hardship or inequity. we should at the same time give the tenants some relief. we should equalize this matter of entering into 15 percent rent increase leases so that they are really voluntary. and so that there is coercion. either express or direct or indirect. we should  permit the landlords to be able to tell the tenant that he can get his apartment redecorated or repaired. which the landlord will  do unless the 15 percent increase lease agreement is entered into. i do  think that the tenant ought to have that kind of a pistol lield to his head. my amendment provides specifically that the tenant get prompt relief in those cases where the obligation exists to make the necessary repairs and decoration that the tenant is entitled to.
i understand that applications for mortgage insurance under title vi have been running at the rate of an average of $50.000.000 a week. . right . in the absence of a comprehensive housing bill this expansion of authority under title vi is about the only way veterans can hope to get new housing. i am very glad to see it and i think other members interested in housing should be. my other question relates to the provision which i understand is in the bill. which the gentleman from michigan can confirm as we have had chance to study this bill considering its coming up on consent. that the definition of the type of appraisal which is to be made as the basis for fha title vi mortgages has been changed from one of necessary cost. which is the way it stood before. to one of value. the difference is that using a basis of value the bill would  give due consideration to the present abmally high costs of building. the difference between the two standards of value and necessary cost is a reduction of between $500 and $700 in every mortgage. that makes quite a bit of difference when you are borrowing on a $6.000 or $8.000 per unit basis. consequently many less homes may be built because builders may  venture if they can get a necessary cost instead of a value basis for the mortgages.
. the conferees have presented the house with a. very astute solution of the differences between the house and senate bills on the local area advisory boards. although the bill in its present form still leaves much to be desired. especially in the way of restricting commercial and recreational construction which competes with housing construction. and in respect to the protection of tenants on evictions. and on maintenance and decoration of housing accommodations. the conference report does. as i expected. make improvements in the house bill. it is some measure of national rent control and it is the best we can get. i shall therefore support the conference report.
. as the house heads into the final adjournment rush. the rank and file of veterans are going to await our answer on one subjecthousing. and as i read the signs of the times. house members will be judged with respect to housing in the coming campaign on what they do to bring about passage of the taftellenderwagner bill. which has already passed the other body and waits on house action. i think the time has come for the committee to state to the house whether or  the bill will be reported out in time for floor action. members will then be free to consult their own views in signing or refraining from signing the discharge petition. a large number of members on both sides of the aisle signed the discharge petition in the last weeks. this shows that an increasing number of members are recognizing the seriousness of the housing issue. and the fact that they can do something about it which will enable the people to k where they stand.
it is a question entirely upon the item for the office of the housing expediter. i ice the reduction of the committee has voted is of a sum of approximately $4.000.000 for socalled liquidation expenses. assuming that the housing and rent control act runs only until april 1. 1949. and the agency will be liquidated thereafter. i rise to ask whether or  the gentleman has questioned the witnesses. i do  find it in the record. as to whether. if the agency takes that cut it will prorate it over the 9 months. . in other words. the agency will  assume that it will ultimately get the money. but will reduce the $15.000.000 appropriated by what it estimates to be the cost of liquidation. and therefore materially cripple rent control administration. which the people of my district are vitally interested in sustaining unimpaired.
 of the subcommittee. the gentleman from massachusetts . to restore only the amount which was cut for additional positions sought to be created in the office of the housing expediter to deal with his problems in national. regional. and area rentcontrol offices. it will be ed from the committees report at page 4 that the sum of $4.132.900 was included in the budget estimates in order to take care of liquidation expenses. assuming that the office might be liquidated after april 1. 1949. the gentleman from massachusetts in response to my question - in the general debate. has assured us that that amount will  have to be absorbed by the agency and be deducted from the appropriation for operations in the period up to march 31. 1949. with a resulting impairment of its work. that still leaves the sum of $1.195.000 which has come off the budget estimates. for employees. and the committee will e in the second paragraph of the committees report. "funds for an additional 244 positions have been denied the office of the housing expediter." i come from a city district where rent control is of critical importance to the people in the area. the people are deeply concerned that rentcontrol administration shall  be impaired. i would like to point out to the members of the house that with all the talk that has been going on about a big building programand between 900.000 and 1.000.00 new units we expected to be built in the year 1948the figures show that rental housing will constitute only about 15 percent of that total. whereas mally rental housing runs somewhere around onethird or more of new construction. hence the housing shortage for moderateincome families who must rent. is stll very much with us and is likely to continue to be for some time. people in my district are complaining bitterly about rent increases due to alleged hardship. which are granted landlords. they claim. without complete justification in the petitions and also failure of the housing expediters office to give adequate service on complaints of tenants whose apartments are  being maintained. by painting and decoration and otherwise. even in accordance with the requirements on landlords of the housing expediters office. hence i ask the committee to support this amendment. the amount being spent for rentcontrol administration is  very great. considered countrywide. the whole staffing of the housing expediters office is what counts. considering all the jobs he has to do. if he does  have the help. his functions. including rent control. are bound to show the effects. it is well worth an additional million dollars in order to protect 16.000.000 tenants who live in rented accommodations in the united states.
s desk is completed. it is by  clear that if any comprehensive housing measure is to pass it must be this bill. it is on the table. available for the signature of any member. the record on housing in the coming session will be made on that discharge petition in this house.
. the national association of home builders is meeting today in chicago. i k of segment of the american private ecoy which holds a greater responsibility for the success and for the future of our ecoic system than do the builders. housing remains americas  1 domestic problem. last year we built less morehomes than in 1947. this year the forecasts are that private construction will be even lower. while we drive for a balanced housing bill to help  only the lowest but also the middleincome groups. we k that it will be in the last analysis still in the hands of the builders to build the 16.000.000 homes america needs in the next decade. the home builders main attack must be on costs. i urge that they consider at their convention a conc rted drive for the mass production of housing as automobiles are producedthere are too few big units in housingfor the greatly expanded use of massproduction methods of prefabrication and assembly. and finally for a smashing attack on the 3.000 antiquated municipal building codes which have the people and the builders tied down like gulliver.
. title i of the bill relates  to rent control but to housing. and purports to deal with a situation affecting the veterans and the sale of property to veterans. it gives veterans a preferential right for 30 days to acquire any newly constructed housing. i propose that the priority should be increased to 90 days unless the owner of the propertyin answer to what is a crying needgives the veteran a certificate that the materials which went into the property under construction equals or exceeds what he described in his application to the federal housing administration or the veterans administration from which he has gotten the loan aid in connection with the construction. and that the housing is exactly as represented in that application. an owner is required to describe to the veterans administration or the federal housing administration exactly what materials are going into new housing and what standards the construction will meet. my amendment is designed to follow the terms of this bill. the most we can do under the terms of this bill. and i believe this amendment is properly inserted at this point despite the reservation of a point of order against it. is change the provision of the bill which gives the veteran 30 days priority on new housing and say to the landlord. "it is going to take longer than that to find out whether the cellar is going to fill up with water after a good rainstorm. or the walls are going to come apart"-instances of which we have had time and time again. in new construction. especially in outlying sections of new york city-"so we want you to give the veteran a preference for a longer period of time so that the house can stand a little weathering and the veteran can see whether or  this house is really going to stand up in accordance with the standards which you represented in your loan application." a few of the facts on this are as follows: the housing expediter. vho has authority to receive complaints with respect to housing constructed in 1946 and early in 1947 under the veterans emergencyhousing legislation. which applies only to those periods. received 200.000 complaints of the type of difficulty. which my amendment would seek to reach. of those 200.000 complaints. he had to dismiss 160.000 for lack of jurisdiction. just think of it. 160.000 complaints had to be dismissed because he had jurisdiction under the statute by which he could follow up these complaints of the veterans. in those cases in which he could retain jurisdiction he has already recovered a million dollars and is in a fair way to recover a total of $7.500.000. my amendment seeks a technique by which the housing expediter may gain some jurisdiction over all the complaints where an application has been made either to the fha or the va for loan aid. and that applies to most of the ecoy houses and other houses available to veterans which are being put up.
as a practical matter he could do much because he would have jurisdiction over the veterans priority and over the certificates to be issued by builders. if the landlord wants to shorten the period of 90 days veterans priority. he would have to submit a certificate and whatever administrative problems arise under this act. the housing expediter will handle. i can give the housing expediter or the housing administrator specific authority to go after these complaints. because that would be beyond the purview of this bill.
. we are told that a democracy has within itself the seeds for its own destruction. we are told that when the liberties it cherishes and protects are permitted to become license. the exercise of those liberties themselves at such a time can "destroy democracy. we have in the par.ticular amendment before us an illustration of that situation. we k there is a national emergency in connection with the shortage of housing. accommodations and therefore in connection with rents. if we have  -within our democracy the organic strength and the organic flexibility to deal with that emergency. and to. deal with it without fear. king we are  going to sacrifice our essential liberties in the process. indeed the foundations of american freedom are in danger. i believe the pending amendment must be defeated and it must be defeated on this very clear ground: either the house wants rent control or it does . .possible changes in ecoic conditions in 3 .months have little to do with it. it is housing conditions and the housing shortage we are talking about here. if the committee wants to give this power of rent controlback to the states and municipalities. a. course with which i disagree. then face it firmly: but let us  make a mockery of our democracy and the democratic process by saying we are doing one thingcontinuing rent controland doing at the same time aherending rent control. i believe that thepending amendment should be defeated.
. practically every argument that has been made in favor of the pending amendment is an argument against national rent control. rather than in favor of this amendmentit is an argument that the local communities shall have local option as to whether they want rent control or . regardless of national policy. need. or emergency. in the big cities there may well be population shifts should this amendment pass. within the city of greater detroit. for instance. as it has just been stated. one segment of the city may be decontrolled and other segments controlled. the same may occur in country counties contiguous to city counties. there is a national housing shortage. there is a national housing emergency. and it is essential to have a regulating authority at the national level. there is local option in the law  but  to the point of local license. the power is in the expediter who can look at the whole national picture. but if he acts improperly it is put up to the court. the court is the final authority.
. i consider this conference report as being at least a resolution of the conflicting claims on rent control. there is much in it we could all disagree about. and it leaves much to be desired for firm rent control. however. cur problem is to get the job done  when it needs to be done and before federal rent control expires within only 2 days. i shall therefore support the conference report. i am glad to see that the report retains the provision of the house bill inserted by an amendment i proposed conditioning landlords hardship or inequity increases on their giving maintenance and decoration services to tenants. customary for the premises before rent control. the tenants will  have to go through the difficulties of complaining to the office of the housing expediter.
ial campaign. as follows: housing can best be supplied and financed by private industry. but the government can and should encourage the building of better homes at less cost. we recommend federal aid to the states for local slum clearance and low rental housing programs only where there is a need that can be met either by private industry or by the states and localities. i submit that this bill does exactly that. in almost such words. . many people seek to tell us that this is a matter of limited application. that it.will  affect many people of the united states. there are 397 cities in the united states with populations of over 25.000. i believe that practically every member of this house will find that one of those cities is in his district. and that every one of those cities is deeply interested in this bill. we are told also that this bill is socialistic. i think that argument has been answered many times. but one answer that seems important to me is that it seems to depend on whose ox is being gored. there is apparently socialism in even a billion dollars for parity payments and other federal aids for farmers there is socialism in aid for rivers and harbors. soil conservation. and irrigation. there is socialism in a bill which i voted for. and which many other members voted for at last session. which actually helped to house migratory workers to help the farm situation in the united states. that bill was passed. and passed with a heavy vote by this house in the last congress. we are told also that if we pass this bill the housing of our nation will be taken over by the government. there is substance to that. i have taken considerable trouble to ascertain exactly how many public housing projects there are in the united states. state. federal. city. or other. and they come to the tremendous total of 276.171. to which we propose to add about 800.000. making something over a million out of roughly 35.000.000 housing units in the united states. .i went around yesterday with nine other members of the house to some housing projects in new york. to get the physical impact of the "before" and "after" effect. i ask you to look at these two pictures. this one is "before". this is a slum. just get the impact of this picture. you have heard about all the merits and demerits. the pros and the cons. the cost in dollars and cents. this is the slum. this is where human beings are asked to live. and yet we call upon them to be patriotic americans and.appeal to them to do everything humanly possible to resuscitate the depressed nations of the earth. this second picture represents a housing de.elopment in new york such as is contemplated by this bill. the difference between these two pictures is all the difference between life and death as far as human morale is concerned and as far as human prospects are concerned. we are told that we should  pass this bill on the grounds of ecoy. i reply to that that we must balance all the claims to the revenues of the united states in some feasible and fair way. i ask you first to take the figures of $300.000.000 a year to be invested in lowrent federally assisted housing on essential and critical improvement for the welfare of the people of the united states. and compare that with some $15.000.000.000 a year spent for national defense. and some billion and a half dollars a year spent on various farm programs. and then see whether the housing bill represents an extravagant approach to this basic problem. whether it is  essential that we pass this bill in order to have some balanced approach to the welfare xcv519 of our people. as well as for the welfare of the nation and the world. this is a very reasonable program. and it is reasonable in this sense: we are told today that private enterprise on the one hand is doing the job. but we k it can. because. if it were. we would  have these urgent representations that are coming up from the leading national organizations. the cities and communities. the veterans and people generally. for this type of relief. a demand that comes from all over the country. we are told on the other hand that private enterprise is  doing the job. somewhere there is a gap. and i submit that this bill is designed to fill up that gap. it seems that private enterprise is being stabilized at in the range of 800.000 to 1.000.000 home units a year. under a housing bill we should expect to add somewhere between 250.000 and 500.000 additional units. the passage of such a bill. therefore. should result in a balanced program and one that will also give aid to the lower middle income groups. if we do this. then we are embarking upon a housing program that is somewhere nearly adequate to meet the housing need within the next 10 years. the housing bill should pass. and we should include in it provision for the lower middle incolne families as provided for in the bill h. r. 1973 introduced by me and nine republican colleagues. we have seen there is a margin of difference between an inadequate program. which is what we have today. and an adequate program. and our people are reasonable. the people do  expect the unreasonable or the unattainable. if we pass the housing bill amplified with provision for lower middle income families. we will find. in our respective districts. that the people are satisfied. that we will have kept our faith with them. one last word: our democracy is important to us. it is important. certainly. to me as a member of a miity. and equally to every other member of the house. i think it is fundamental. especially with us here as legislators. that our democracy can be so inflexible as to be unable to meet modern demandsdemands brought about by demonstrably changed conditions. to insist on the theory of inflexibility is the surest way to shatter our democracy. the surest way to preserve our democracy and to make it virile and strong is to show that it has the resourcefulness and the flexibility to meet the problems of the welfare of our people when those problems are as clearly and as strongly shown to us as they are in housing. there are very few measures we have been called upon to consider that have been more thoroughly scrutinized. that have been more thoroughly debated. that have been more thoroughly argued about in the country than this housing bill. i think that members. whether for or against the bill. must come to the conclusion that the whole of the debate which has taken place very intensively for the last 4 years has failed to show that this program is invalid. has failed to show it is socialistic. on the contrary. it has shown it is reasonable. it is a necessary program and it will do exactly what it sets out to do. that is to go far to make up the difference between the homes that we require and the housing which is being built today by private enterprise. i believe we are going to be surprised by the number of votes for this bill on both sides of the aisle. i cay that if there is a substantial vote on both sides of the aisle. it will be the best thing that could possibly happen  only for the american people but for our constitutional democracy.
would the gentleman tells us in dollar terms what is meant by lowincome families in this lowrent public housing title and also as to the gentlemans understanding with reference to the proposed policy of the administrator should we pass this bill.
there is just one other point that i think should be made clear: that our purpose in offering this substitute is that we desire to get a comprehensive housing bill. the missing element in the bill  under consideration. h. r. 4009. is some provision for the lower middleincome families. the effort which is made in our amendment to take care of the lower middleincome families. i understand. has  been taken up by over 25 members on the other side. we believe that this is the time to bring out a comprehensive bill. we are concerned that time will  be found in the future. after the consideration of this bill is completed. to take up a new bill to take care of the lower middleincome groups. we think that  is the time to do it.
that is right. there seems to be a universal demand for housing relief for the lower middle income groups. when i addressed the national public housing conference recently my proposal of this program to help relieve the housing shortage for the lower middle income groups was enthusiastically received. because they realized that in our country we need and should endeavor to write comprehensive housing legislation.
. we are here to see that  any one party or any one group arrogates to itself the mantle of responsibility for passing this legislation. we are here as legislators to see that we get a housing bill that is comprehensive and adequate to the need. i think it is very clear to all of us that if we pass this bill we will  be meeting the needs fully. we will still be leaving open a great area of activity which is filled by private enterprise in housing. it has been our aim on this side of the aisle. as shown by the amendment proposed by my colleague from new york to the committees amendment. to make this a comprehensive housing bill and to do at one time what so many of the members who have spoken in favor of this bill tried to do for so many years in the wellkn taftellenderwagner bill. we do  believe that the cause of housing for the american people is being ade. quately served by acting in a partial way. we respectfully submit that it is acting in a partial way by the 60day amendmentsi characterize them in that fashionwhich have been offered by the committee with respect to the fha mortgage titles. we believe it is acting in a comprehensive way by the substitute amendment offered by my colleague from new york. we do  agree that absence of consideration of the substitute by the legislative committee is a proper objection. our bills have been before the committee for 6 months . i testified to the bill containing this title myself before the committee. the fact that the committee has given it consideration. is  the fault of the house or of the committee of the whole. and the legislative committee must take its chances that the house may see fit  to legislate. even though the committee has  seen fit to consider the matter comprehensively.
as far as this issue is concerned. we are  trying to make it partisan at all. on the contrary. we have assured all people who are interested in housing that we are supporting housing as such. we ask for the support of this amendment solelh on that basis. i might say to the gentleman i and many other members of the house have a deep affection for the chairman of the committee. i have learned to k him well. he has been wonderful to all of us. but the text of his assurance is too uncertain. and we do  feel that the assurances that we were given as to committee hearings. give any assurance that there will be passage of this particular title. as we have proposed it in this session of congress when it is so urgently needed.
. i think there are egh members present in the committee of the whole this aftern who are sufficiently interested in getting housing for the american people that at this time. 5 minutes after 5. they will demonstrate to the american people thatat 5 minutes after 5 we are still bright. alive. working. and ready to stay here to do a job for them. and that we do  proceed on the axiom that any amendment which is proposed after 5 will have little consideration. i hope that the house will give this amendment. which is an important amendment. a housing measure seriously put forth by 32 members. 10 republicans and 22 democrats. serious consideration.
. the controversy on the conference report is the same as the controversy on the bill. those who were against the bill are against the conference report for one reason or aher. and those who were for the bill are for the conference report. the conference report does in substance carry out the senate bill. and that. i think. is generally what the house intended as a reasonable housing program. it carries out also the provisions of the bill introduced by 10 house republicans. including the provisions for the extension and added financing of fha. which we think are very important. i feel also that we will continue to press for action on housing for the lower middleincome families. which is  contained in this bill. but which was first provided for in the bill introduced by the 10 house republicans. later joined in by similar bills introduced by 22 democratic members. i hope those who voted for the bill will vote for the conference report and that it will be adopted.
is the gentleman aware of the debate which took place in the other body today. that emphasized the fact that if the work load of the housing expediter did  taper off as the conferees expected it would. and hence the reason for their action. it was understood generally in the debate. without any commitments. that the housing expediter would feel free in january. if his work load had  tapered off. to come in and seek a deficiency appropriation.
i would hazard that this gentleman is at least as interested as the gentleman from south dakota in getting funds for the housing expediter. i am just stating here. so that the record may be clear. why people like myself are concurring in the amendment at all.
i wish to ask the gentleman whether the gentleman has inquired from the housing expediter whether if these amendments are accepted he does or does  intend to go through with this annced decontrol of onethird of the country.
 to increase it to a billion dollars. that differs rather materially from the bill offered by the .10 republican members 6f this house way back in january of this year which pioneered this direct loan idea to provide housing that families in the lower. middleincome groups 12080 can afford. this is truly a bipartisan approach to the solution of this problem. while it does  do all that the original sponsors of direct loans for such housing wanted. acceptance of this billion dollar proposal would at least be an approach and a fair trial of a plan to do something for the lower middleincome families. over 50 members of the house have introduced almost identical bills on this subjectmembers on both sides of the aisle. but there was always an undercurrent of resistance despite the fact that a majority of the house wanted housing legislationthat majority  confining itself to one side. but coming from both sides of the aisle. they wanted the taftellenderwagner bill. but there was a stubborn resistance from those who could to try to prevent the bill from reaching the floor. the members representing districts such as my own where families in the lower middleincome groups urgently need housing aid. were all for public housing under the assurance that we would have a balanced housing program that would extend to the lower middleincome groups. they are taken care of in this bill to a certain extent and we are giving them aid in getting housing for themselves as they are entitled to. this principle of direct government loans is carried out in the rea for the benefit of the farmers. it is carried out in the farm programs. and it is carried out for business through the rfc. one seems to raise any alarm when it is done in those quarters but when it is proposed to extend the same principle to city dwellers who urgently need it. it is called socialistic. yet city dwellers in the lowermiddle income brackets in this whole housing program have been overlooked. those earning in the range of $3.000 a yearthe great bulk of the middleincome groupabout 15.000.000 american families. whenever anything is endeavored to be done for them. there is this constant cry of socialism. that the program is to become socialistic. yet it is  socialistic in rea and it is  socialistic when it comes to maintaining farm prices or helping business. i hope that the committee of the whole will see fit to accept an amendment which will let this one ination that anyone has been able to think ofdirect loans for housingto be put into effect. which will bring housing within the reach of the lower middleincome groups. reduce the rental of fourroom apartments from what it is  when built under title vi of this act. about $80 or $85 a month. to about $55 or $60 a month. we took care of the lowest income groups when we passed the housing act a few weeks ago. i hope the committee will at long l~st give the lower middleincome group a chance and balance out this housing program which should have been done from the beginning.
this title is from s. 2246. the bill reported out by the banking and currency committee of the other body. my amendment provides up to $1.000.000.000 for direct loans for moderateincome families who organize themselves in housing cooperatives. who can get housing any other way within their price range. the money would be available for such projects at 3 percent interest for 50 years. a long term for amortization. and a low interest rate. this only gives the moderateincome families of america. 15.500.000 of them. representing the group earning between two and four thousand dollars a year. who have been practically overlooked in all previous housing legislation. the beginning of an opportunity to acquire a home at a price they can afford to pay. we have looked after the lowincome groups by publicly assisted lowrent housing. the highincome groups are looking out for themselves. and we are looking after the veterans as we should with great solicitudeand. incidentally. full veterans preference is preserved in my amendmentbut the great rank and file of americans is still suffering from the drastic housing shortage. and one has come up with any idea to help them out of the difficulty they are in except this idea for direct loans. incidentally. the group of 10 republican members who put in a comprehensive housing in january of this year pioneered this idea in legislation. as has been said. the government is  afraid to make direct loans to farmers. the government is  afraid to make direct loans for rural telephones. incidentally. at 2 percent interest. and it is  afraid to make direct loans to business people through the rfc. but. when you come up against the urgent housing needs of the moderateincome families. who can get housing any other wayand that situation is likely to continue on for some years in view of the high construction costs. which continuethe cry goes up and the objection is made that it is socialism. a democracy which can help itself in an emergency is a democracy which is weak to the core. we can help ourselves. we have demonstrated that as to farmers and business and rural telephones and a great many other things. this is an effort to show us how we can help ourselves in respect to the urgent housing needs of the moderateincome families. it is a start of a program with a formula to reduce rentals for apartments they can occupy from the $85 to $90 per month under title vi of fha for a mal fourroom apartment to $55 to $60 per month.
exactly. it was reported out by the committee on banking and currency of the other body. and it is  before the other body. i should like to pay my respects to this idea that the other body will bog us down. it used to be the case in the other body that they said. "the house will bog us down" on housing until we passed the housing bill of 1949. they were good. and the house was bad on housing then.  all of a sudden the other body is said to be against housing because it suits the purpose of those who are against this amendment to say so. i do  believe that the record supports that argument or that we should be persuaded by it.
. in view of the fact that this is the amendment relating to the direct loans to cooperative housing organizations which was discussed yesterday. i ask unanimous consent that further reading of the amendment be dispensed with.
. this is the end of the session. and it is too easy to put a matter like this through with too little consideration. although there is little doubt about the fact that the rule will pass and the resolution will be passed. i think it would be a disservice to the people of the country who are looking to the members of this congress for help on housing.  to call attention to the fact that practically hing is being done for housing for the moderateincome families in this bill. little is being done for veterans housing in this bill. and the whole theory of the bill which the house passed in august to make some real contribution to housing is going completely down the drain. what is being done in substance is to effect pro forma extension for 5 months of the fhainsured. mortage loans. which we have become accustomed to as an important base for private housing construction. even fha mortgageinsurance extefision should be at least for a year to serve even that purpose alone. this whole idea of shunting off the housing issue. letting it go over. doing little about it. and coming back next year to debate in the house. pass a bill. and then again see little done in the other body. except aher extension of fha. is the augury of this bill.
in continuing to get far less than egh done on housing. we are faced with a closed rule under which the house could  amend the bill even if it wanted to. housing legislation for moderateincome groups and veterans is made a fiasco by this resolution.
. the people of the country are entitled to k  while many state legislatures are in session the intentions of congress with respect to the extension of federal rent control. it will be a serious mistake and  in the best interests of the country if this decision is permitted to wait until close to june 30. 1950. and is then  made at all. or made at the eleventh hour. such action will play directly into the hands of those misguided people who believe that a runaway rental structure is beneficial to property ownersfor should this happen the retribution would be far more severe than rent control today. as it is today. though federal rent control has. due to the fair net operating income adjustment provisions. resulted in some emous rent increases of between 30 and 50 percent. it has on the whole thus farand 1emphasize thus fartolerably held the rent control line. and the fair net operating income provision can and should be eliminated in a renewal of the act. certainly removal of federal rent control is answer to the problem. for example. in new york city with 1.800.000 family housing units under control. rent increases under the 1949 act averaged 11.4 percent and applied to 7 percent of the controlled units. most of the cases in which increases were granted100.740 out of 123.491 units. the total affected by increaseswere stated by ohe to be due to major capital improvements. increased services. and increased occupancy. in the rent clinic which i conduct in my own district where the cases of about 6.000 tenants have been serviced. our experience has been that about 5 percent of the tenants whom we have represented have received rent increases and the amount of increase has  exceeded 11 percent. the amendment to the federal rent control which i had the privilege of proposing. and which requires the landlord who wishes to qualify for a rent increase to certify to maintenance of tenants services equal to those existing on the rentfreeze date. has been a vital factor in holding the balance of equal justice between landlord and tenant. in new york city ohe reports that tenants in 30 percent of the cases successfully opposed efforts to get rent increases where the required services were  being rendered by the landlord. and in that city ohe reports that 85.271 reductioservices cases were handled in 1949 with restoration of service or compensating rent reductions in 83.8 percent or 71.452 of the cases. we must  overlook that fact that some extremist elements. sometimes unwittingly aided and abetted by some shortsighted politicians. have been using the rentcontrol issue to stir up public confusion and what is even worse. discord and lack of confidence by thousands of tenants in government. it is difficult for members who are  from big cities to understand the amount of mischief which can be done in this way and the real subversion of public confidence which can be practiced through some ostensibly claiming to be protecting tenants rights. the abandonment of federal rent control at this time would strengthen the hands of such harmful elements in the community. for rent is of the most critical importance to the mal bigcity family. costing as it does 15 to 25 percent of their total income. and a runaway rent structure is. therefore. a fertile breeding ground for demagoguery and the creation of bitter class antagonisms. the evidence bearing on the question of continued federal rent control demands its extension. the reason for applying federal rent control in the first instance was that the housing shortage was countrywide and that rent gouging on a national scale could ensue as rent controls were loosened. certainly the brief experience with runaway rents during the short time when controls were off just after the war demonstrated the incipient national danger in this condition. the criteria which should determine whether federal rent control should be reenacted or should terminate on june 30 next are. first. has the housing shortage been materially overcome. second. what has been the experience with* decontrol where it has been tried. and. third. is the federal rentcontrol law adequate for the public interest. countrywide surveys indicate that the housing shortage continues. since 1945 the annual rate of housing construction has  exceeded roughly a million units per year. we have fallen far short of this mark. it should be ed that our population increased in 1949 alone about 3.000.000 and that in that year there entered into the market for housing about 700.000 families. it is significant that the joint committee on housing in their final report. march 1948 (pp. 811) estimated that 1.287.000 to 1.441.000 housing units must be started each year to satisfy housing requirements by 1960. when the housing shortage was first recognized as a housing emergency. estimates of the emergency housing need ranged between 3 and 5 million new units. with a great proportion needed as rental units. the rate of construction. since 1945 up to december 31. 1949. has resulted in 3.471.000 housing starts. an average of 868.000 per year. and of these only about 20 percent were for rentalthe high being 23 percent in 1949against a mal 40 percent constructed for rental before world war ii. the recorded housing starts include. too. considerable replacement housing and higher income bracket housing. also the addition of over 2.000.000 new families since 1945 has greatly increased the demand. altogether i estimate that housing construction to date has resulted in an actual contribution to reducing the housing emergency by more than onethird. in new york city. for example. 250.000 housing units were urgently needed early in 1946 to look after families doubled up or tripled up. most all of them xcvi- 37 veterans. or compelled to live in substandard accommodations. yet under the whole construction program in new york city since 1945 about 80.000 of these units have been supplied. evidence of the great need is also shown in new york city by the fact that applications for public housing units are often 10 times the number of units available. one of the primary contributions to the emergency need is the inability to supply housing under existing costs and even with existing federal aids. at rentals of less than $80 per month for the mal unit. this is between $20 to $30 per month beyond the reach of the mal family. even the public housing program authorized by the last congress expected to contribute 810.000 public housing units is designed for construction over a 6year period and such units have  been supplied or will  be for about aher year. of the approximately 14.500.000 units under control. april 1. 1949. ohe reports that 2.621.900 had been decontrolled by ohe reports that between april 1 and december 16. 1949. a total of 642 decontrol actions were taken which removed controls from an estimated 2.621.900 rental units. the housing expediter took 438 of these actions on his own initiative. thus decontrolling 1.035.600 rental units in about 200 towns and cities. local option accounted for 193 actions affecting 674.800 rental units. and 6 actions affecting 837.500 rental units were taken by state option. and 5 actions affecting 74.000 units were taken on the recommendation of local rent advisory boards. experience with decontrol indicates sharp rent rises in most areas in which decontrol has taken placeaveraging between $6.76 to $14.09 per month in apartments in the $30-$50 monthly rental brackets and covering 50 percent of all apartments in such rental brackets in key cities. even assuming that areas decontrolled had a right to expect material rent increases in connection with the decision to decontrol it is yet extremely significant that increases were heavy and widespread. though the decontrol machinery under the federal law permits decontrol on a statewide and even on a local basis. decontrol has been relatively limited both in the number of units and the areas affected. only six statesnebraska. texas. arizona. utah. alabama. and wisconsinhave decontrolled and there are  included the most populous states of new york. massachusetts. new jersey. pennsylvania. ohio. illis. and california. for example. big city in the theast has decontrolled. and even in the south where the decontrol movement has gained headway there is strong opposition to decontrol in a central point like atlanta. ga. ohe reports that 75 cities with over 100.000 population remain under federal rent control. the theory of congressional reenactment of the federal rentcontrol law is being sustained. the housing emergency continues to exist on a broad scale throughout the country and therefore a national law is essential. the machinery for decontrol is beginning to function by. states and localities so that the problem may at the proper time safely be liquidated into local controls or decontrols as the original rentcontrol program was designed to operate. but at this time an extension of federal rent control to june 30. 1951. is essential. certain changes in the law are. however. required in connection with its reenactment for a year. to eliminate the fair net operating income provision of the law and reestablish the hardship test for landlords to qualify for rent increases contained in the 1946 federal rentcontrol law which worked with much greater fairness. i am appending to these remarks a countrywide survey published by the new york times on sunday. january 1. showing how limited has been the decontrol movement and the drastic upswing in rents where decontrol has taken place:
i think the very fundamentals of a private ecoy. which the gentleman from michigan speaks of so often on this floor. would be exactly contrary to an effort to require that rents other than for public housing should be established on requiring the tenant to show how much he could pay.
if the gentleman will permit methe point i am making is that congress should act on this question  on june 15. 1950. but should act on this question . within the next 30 days while state legislatures are in session. if congress does  renew rent control promptly we could easily have a repetition of the situation which occurred just after the war when there was complete chaos. very damaging to the countrys ecoy. if congress does  renew rent control. and i am stating why i believe that failure to extend federal rent control would be a great mistake. the state legislatures. many of which are in session the first few months of the year. would have an opportunity to correct the situation in their own states.
. my colleague from illis. whom i respect very highly. and to whom i am deeply indebted for giving me this time. asked the question which. king him. i k  to be rhetorical. he says. "who wants this bill." i would like to point out that the people who want this bill are a very material proportion of the 15.000.000 american families who are in what is called the gap. people who earn somewhere between $2.500 and $4.000 a year. and who just can get new rental housing today at any reasonable figure and who can find other rental housing at all. . that is a fact and  an opinion. we had. right after the end of the war. an estimated 3.000.000 veterans living doubled up with their relatives. or living in what in new york city are generally ratinfested dwellings. or even wet cellars. where their children can. and do. develop all kinds of chronic illnesses. and what we have t: decide is how far we have gone to improve that condition. the answer is that we have  gone very far at all. it is estimated that only about 25 to 30 percent of that problem has been taken care of in the 5 years since the end of the war. speaking  to those who supported the housing bill which went through last year. and which had a public housing title. i think when we put that through there was a clear implication that we were  going to let the case for these middleincome families who were in the gap. as i have described it. go by default. but that we would address ourselves to some kind of a balanced housing program to include them. this leads us here to discussing a question of basic governmental philosophy. i believe it will be made very clear before the debate is over that there just is  a way for years to come. in which. private industry alone can fill up the need for these middleincome gap families. the question is. shall there be the interposition of government to deal with that very acute social problem or shall we let these families suffer. that is a very real. fundamental question of policy.and indeed of a philosophy of life which is involved. i line up with those who say that the government has to interpose itself to do something about it. this bill seems to be a very feasible way in which to accomplishthat result. -
. the type of housing covered in title i is  only  revolutionary. it is  radical. ten republican members pioneered the idea of direct government loans to theextent of $3.000.000.000 on longterm credit at low interest for middleincome housing in bills they put in in january 1949. soon after the first session of the eightyfirst congress convened.-h. r. 1973 and the following. this title carries out the same idea by the sale of governmentguaranteed mortgage bonds. the title deserves our full support in view of the crying need for housing by the moderate income families.
. the debate has  been. as the gentleman from michigan has said. quite exhaustive. and i really do  have the right to take the time of the house unless there is something new to be discussed. before we vote on title i we should have before us two new and additional points. which should weigh decisively in the retention of this title. first. i understand that the committee on banking and currency learned that the limit of materials and manpower available for housing. as estimated by representatives of the housing construction industry itself. was for 1.500.000 homes. that is very important evidence on the question of inflation. there certainly can be claimed to be any undue pressure on men or materials and therefore on costs by authorizing the program of title i. secondly. assuming this motl strike title i will fail. it is my into to offer an amendment to perfec i which would protect against exe profit margins by housing contrs or builders in their dealing with coo tives under title i. or against unre able competition with other typ home construction in connection this program for cooperatives. i also expect to offer an amendm assure fully democratic procedur these housing cooperatives. these considerations should be adequate ance that the program will  be tionary and will be well handled.
is it  a fact that this is .. matter of first impression to a third of the house which did  vote on the gossett amendment when it came up before. and that the result of that vote struck such consternation into the hearts of people in the big cities like chicago. new york. and maiy others. that this vote today will be considered very important. members who vote for the motion to recommit should do so with the realistic understanding that they must be rrepared to have it considered ps a vote against the 50.000 lowrent housing units. the housing provision in this committee report. in those places where it counts. we are asking the american people for real sacrifices in terms of military service. taxes. hard work. and consumer and credit restrictions in aid of the defense mobilization program. yet if favorable action is  taken on this conference report the lower income families it the cities who need it the most would find their opportunities for housing in the coming year considerably reduced. when restrictions on materials and high housing costs are the order of the day it is the higherpriced housing which the lcwerincome families in the cities can attain which is constructed. precisely at such a time the lowerincome families need the help of publicly assisted lowrent housing more than ever. just as we call for an equality of sacrifice to aid in the defense mobilization by strengthening morale. so we must call for an equality of benefits for the same purpose. should we fail to approve this conference report thousands of units of lowrent publicly assisting housing. in new york city alone almost 20.000 housing units. already counted on by municipalities and prospective tenants will be cut out. a sharp reduction was already made in the number of housing units to be provided this year from 135.000 to 15.000 on the findings of the presidents council of ecoic advisers. from the inflationary. the materials. and the availability of labor point of view. 75.000 units was considered entirely feasible. this is cut by this conference report to 50.000. there is reason why this should  be considered. therefore. as a conservative measure. i emphasize again that publicly assisted lowrent housing is bipartisan. the provision for constructing 810.000 such units in six years wa. enacted in the housing act of 1949 with bipartisan votes. the 1948 platform of the republican party recommends federal aid for low rental housing programs where there is a need that can be met by private enterprise or by the states and localities. much as i appreciate the desire of my colleagues for personnel cuts in government agencies. i trust that in the spirit of bipartisan support of the 1949 housing act this conference report will be approved. as housing.  personnel cuts. is the primary issue here.
. government assistance both to defense housing through the law recently passed and to private housing through fha mortgage guaranties carries an obligation that all americans should benefit on a basis of equality and without discrimination or segregation from this use of federal money or federal credit. yet the fha does  require affirmatively that mortgagors. to qualify for insurance. disregard racial considerations in the selection of their tenants and leaves this to the mortgagors determination. i have assurance today in a letter from the administrator of the housing and home finance agencywhich is apended-: that the needs of members of miity. groups for community facilities and servic s will be served without discrimination according to the policy followed by the federal government under the lanham act in world war ii. this leaves open the question of defense housing mortgage guaranties. anexecutive order should fill in the gap and make the same provision for defense housing mortgage guaranties. an executive order should fill in the gap and make the same provision for defense housing mortgage guaranties and for fha mortgage guaranties as is reflected- by the appended letter for defense housing community facilities:
. this is the second time in 2 years we have been treated to an effort to reargue the fundamental policy which dictated the passage of the housing act of 1949. i would like to emphasize that that act was passed with votes on both sides of the aisle and that there were over 20 votes on the republican side of the aisle to pass it or it would never have been law. i think. in all fairness. the people who argue in the fashion we have just heard from the gentleman from texas . have to demonstrate that there is reason for changing the fundamental philosophy and the fundamental policy which induced the congress first to pass -this law. i respectfully submit that an appropriation bill is  the place or the way to do it. one must be forced to conclude that those who oppose this fundamental policy are carrying on a battle which they started in 1949. and which they do  feel they can win in any other way except under the guise of ecoy. which is so popular these days. it is understandable why they should be seeking a popular excuse for an effort to eliminate the low rent publicly aided housing program. for their argument today is worse than it was last year. last year we were just going into the defense mobilization. we were tightening up all along the lineeven then we ended up by allowing 50.000 units. this year. on march 5. we have just been presented with order m100 on housing construction of the national production authority. this order liberalized the amount of materials available for housing construction materially increasing the amount of steel made available per housing unit. i ask a majority of the house whether it is fair to say that everybody else can have more housing. but that this is exactly the time to cut in half what was done on public housing in the last fiscal year for those of really low income. that is exactly what is attempted by the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas . all that my colleague from illis is doing is going back to what we did last year. 50.000 units. it would be more equitable to have moved it up to 75.000 units. in view of the fact that the npa  says there is more material available for all housing. the fundamental basis for this program which has absolute validity today is that we are trying to equalize the housing available to the people of the united states. regardless of income. about 10 percent a year was figured to be what we ought to make available to our people whose income is so under par that they canattain decent private housing. ten percent of the units to be started next year would be 80.000 and  50.000as the testimony before the subcommittee shows 800.000 housing starts are expected next year. i submit. therefore. it is restraint.  profligacy. which induces those of us who stand for this program to support the 50.000unit amendment for the next fiscal year.
 we are in a situation here where an effort is being made to dress up a motion to recommit the conference report to the conferees. in order to scare those who want to vote for the 35.000 publichousing units into voting for it and killing the provision for these units. a vote could easily have been taken on each particular item of the four in the motion to recommit as it came up. but they have been lumped together in a motion to recommit expressly for that purpose. i will prove that. and i do  think any member should be taken in by it. it is perfectly legitimate but my point is that member should succumb to that bait. people in the big cities are going to be watching this vote. this is a publichousing vote. the conference report is giving them this year 35.000 units. 3.5 percent of the million housing units to be produced this year. last year the congress gave them 50.000. which is 5 percent. the house has just taken off most of the controls because members apparently believed there were more materials available. and that the defense emergency is  too great a limitation on them. but that action on the defense production act can be justified if at the same time a very mi percentage of public housing is being denied and reduced even below last year.  for the proof: what the movants hope for on this motion to recommit is to go back to the senate and insist upon the amount the senate gave for maritime training.  the amount the house gave. the amount the senate gave is a few hundred thousand dollars more. i ask you. is that put in for window dressing or because they really and seriously are interested in taking that back to the senate. generally. they would be expected to insist on what the house did and  to try to get what the senate did.  this is a package to try to induce you to defeat this particular conference report because it contains a small 35.000 publichousing units. i hope you will  be taken in by it. we have just lost seven people in a flash fire in substandard housing in new york. there are 50.000 such buildings in the city of new york. the state and the cityand that is true of many of the great citieshave tried to meet this obligation for better housing and much has been done. but  nearly egh. they can meet it and the help of the federal government is urgently needed. forty percent of our population have families earning less than $3.000 per year. for that 40 percent of the population this conference report is providing only 3.5 percent of the housing units expected to be started in the next fiscal year. i assure you the conference committee and the appropriations committee will be able to work out all of these problems about the veterans hospitals and the other matters they are putting into this motion to recommit. if they want to. but what is being attempted by this kind of a motion is to scare those who are willing to give this bare fragment of public housing to the millions who need it so urgently. from doing it. i do  think we ought to be scared and i ask you to vote down the motion to recommit.
. i am today introducing a bill called the middleincome housing bill. i think it is becoming impressed on us in the cities that the middleincome people still can find housing either to rent or buy within their means. the great difficulty is that costs are very high and legislation plus voluntary action need to find some way to reduce them. the bill has the following titles: title i provides $10.000.000 for a program of housing research during the next 5 years in methods of production. distribution. assembly. construction. and other factors affecting the cost of housing and designed to bring down these costs and provides that this money be used for projects in engineering schools and colleges. research laboratories. and government agencies under the direction of a national housing research advisory board consisting of representatives of the housing construction industry. building trades unions. engineering schools. municipal housing officials. and the public. title ii provides a loan fund of $3.000.000.000to bear an interest rate of 3 percent per annumavailable at the rate of $500.000.000 for each of 6 years beginning with 1952 to cooperatives. profit and limiteddividend corporations. and to institutional and other longterm investors in new housing construction in areas where there is an inadequacy of private funds available for housing mortgages and an inadequate supply of housing accommodations available at the costs or rents required for middleincome families. title iii makes available longterm mortgage money up to $50.000.000 per project under the regular fha plan at 4 percent to 41/2 percent interest for cooperatives and institutional and other longterm investors in multifamily fireproof. elevator construction resulting from slumclearance operations with federal aid under title i of the housing act of 1949. the problem which is sought to be dealt with by this bill. is very acute. middleincome families are being caught in the squeeze between ineligibility for or inability to obtain public housing and the unavailability of private homes at prices or rentals which they can afford to pay. in addition. the emphasis in home construction today is drawing people out of areas where transportation or other public facilities exist and are very conveniently located to areas distant from places of work where large investment is required for new community facilities. decentralization is desirable and home ownership very much so. but in both of these there should be freedom of choice in order to make for sound development and this is practically existent today for middleincome families. for example. only 14 percent of the aggregate housing unit starts for 1952or 145.000 out of over a million unitsare public housing or private multifamily rental housing and of this total only 12 percent of the private multifamily rental housing will be renting in the $60amonth range. the public housing situation is perhaps best illustrated by the condition in new york city where an estimated eligible 350.000 lowincome familiesmainly families of veteransare competing for 63.000 units in public housing projects. it is significant. that whereas my bill provides for $3.000.000.000 in direct mortgage loans where needed for middleincome housing. the total mortgage loans already guaranteed under fha are $21.000.000.000of which $13.500.000.000 are still in forceand also the direct loans for which i provide can move to private enterprise as well if it will undertake the necessary construction. amendments to the fha provided by this bill are necessary if development is to be undertaken by private enterprise of sites made available as a result of slum clearance. these projects can only prosper if they are large. today there are 165 communities at work in redevelopment programs under title ieither in preliminary planning stage. final planning stage or in loan or grant contract stage. these include nearly all principal metropolitan centers as well as many smaller localities. a total of 60 of these communities have selected some 86 project areas which are at or near the stage of execution. in 105 localities project areas are being currently selected. the provision which is in this bill for an accelerated research program is of great importance. it supplements the research program already being carried on within the housing and home finance agency by providing $10.000.000 for this purpose which can be spent over a period of 5 years. this title also calls for the establishment of a national housing research advisory board of 12 members from the housing construction industry. buildingtrades unions. engineering schools and laboratories and municipal and state housing officials. the board is authorized to establish the policies under which the research shall be conducted. in the first place it is recognized that materials and methods in the building and construction industry are in a good many cases archaic and that home builders are often too small in size to do their own research. there is much opportunity for cooperation within the homebuilding industry and with the government agency in charge of the research program and this will be provided for through the national housing research advisory board proposed by this bill. in addition. the most can be obtained for the research dollar by contracts with colleges. universities. research laboratories. existing government agencies and similar institutions and the creation of a new government establishment to do research is wasteful and unnecessary. a greatly accelerated housing research program is necessary and my bill attempts to provide this. i feel every member of congress should have before him a definite piece of legislation trying to do something for the middleincome people in terms of housing and it is my hope that this subject will have priority of attention in the days ahead.
. there are still 28 million units in the united states under rent control. this shows that in the big city there is a great housing emergency. in fact. people are moving out of the big cities and going to smaller placesthose who can afford to buy homes. the whole fha and va picture shows that we put some $38 billioni repeat that figure-$38 billion into more than 6 million individual mortgages. into credit backing for home ownership. i think the least we can do is to put $3 billion. 10 percent of that. into credit to back up city apartment dwellers who today are moving out of cities because they can find apartments to rent within their means. this is private enterprise. it is hing but the underwriting of 4 percent mortgage money in the traditional way in which the government has done it. i believe it is a duty which the congress urgently owes the american people.
. there seems to be a rather large body of opinion which thinks that this public housing program should be  ended on an appropriation bill. that we had better be realistic about it and at least discuss the merits of the proposal intsead of getting off on the peripheral issues. in the first place. public housing is down to a very small compass in 35.000 units as against an originally contemplated 130.000. of which the minimum was to be 75.000. i see it so often that members will rise on the floor and annce in a most solemn way a great figure of $9 billion in 40 years as what this will cost. and this is what we save. well. it might interest some gentlemen who have those ideas that it will cost something like $2.000 billion in 40 years to sustain our defense program at the present rate. perhaps what is more pertinent is this. and this is where the deep injustice lies as far as people who benefit from public housing are concerned: we are  just overlooking housing. we are doing a great deal about it. we are obligating the credit of the united states for vast sums for housing. for example. the federal housing administration has already guaranteed 3 million loans. the aggregate guaranty is $23 billion. you do  hear anybody casting any fears about that. but that is the credit of the united states which is pledged to the extent of $23 billion. you do hear a great deal of soul searching and breast beating about the fact that we would be undertaking an obligation to public housing. what is public housing all about. i am a slum child myself. so i am a good witness. i invite any member who needs convincing on this subject to come into new york. chicago. detroit. pittsburgh. san franciscoany great cityto see on one side of the street the slum dwellings and on the other side of the street the golden blaze of these tall buildings which have sunlight. air. and greenery. called public housing. i point out that these are established for the benefit of the lowest ecoic level in the population which works. all statements to the contrary withstanding. i have such projects in my own district. other members have them in their districts. we k it is the lower ecoic level of people who work. especially veterans who have preference. who get into these public housing projects. we are building a million units of housing a year. we are asked to take people out of the slums and help them to the tune of 35.000 units a year if they are in the lowest ecoic level. i think the proper questions are these: what is government all about. what are we doing here. what is this all about. are we here in order to add dollars to those who already have dollars. are we here to make life better and more agreeable for those for whom life is already agreeable. or is there some human instinct in government that seeks to look after those who need the hand of government in order to give them some care and some rest. i think that is the fundamental conception of government i have. i hope in the days ahead that we will get a direct vote on this issue. we have had them many times in the past. i hope we will get it again. i personally shall vote "aye" on a motion to recommit which will contain the public housing amendment that undoubtedly will be offered. i think we have to decide in our own deep conscience what is our philosophy of government. is our philosophy of government to be that its hand must be held out to the lower ecoic level of the population. to a level of the population that is being unjustly treated and can only be helped by the government. or are we just to look aside. take care of the people who are being pretty well taken care of and forget about the rest. it is my rather deep conviction that the duty of government is to find the area in which justice may be applied. protect the possessions. the initiative. the work. and the ingenuity of those who are working or can afford to look after themselves. and to do something about those people who could  look after themselves. consistent with our recourses and consistent with our own possessions. i respectfully submit that 35.000 public housing units. involving. as it will. a constantly accelerating appropriation which runs into $39. $40. $50. or $60 million a year. or even $100 million a year 5 or 6 years hence. based on the emous and staggering sums that we are spending and the sacrifices which we are asking from our people in the form of taxes. is the minimum we can do as legislators and the minimum we can do as men. relating to my colloquy with the gentleman from california . i have inserted in the appendix a list of projects containing about 66.000 units under annual contribution contract pursuant to the authorizations of the various appropriation bills. i shall offer an amendment to be sure that the provisions of the present bill do  exclude the performance of the admitted obligation to go through with these contracts. members may examine this list to ascertain whether any of these projects are in their communities.
 of the subcommittee and my colleague from new hampshire [mr. cottoni. it appears at pages 3497 and 3498 of the record. the effort was made to get clear exactly what contracts made by the public housing administration would be hoed. i have gone to considerable pains to research the question and i find the following to be the case: there have been actually entered into what are called preliminary loan contractsand i have a copy of the form herefor about 120.000 public housing units. those specifically provide and i quote paragraph 24 of this contract: neither the execution of this preliminary loan contract.  any acts in pursuance thereof shall be construed as constituting any legal obligation by the pha to enter into any annual contributions contract in connection with the lowrent housing projects to which this preliminary loan contract applies. it being expressly understood that the pha will. in its sole discretion. determine whether or  such annual contributions contract or contracts shall be entered into. nevertheless there is a serious point there in the actions in condemning property. planning. and other acts which have taken place on the strength of these contracts. on the other hand there have been contracts entered into for about 70.000 units in 32 states and the district of columbia. and puerto rico. a list of which i inserted in the appendix last night and which is to be found on page a2057and i repeat. 32 states. the district of columbia. and puerto rico. providing for about 70.000 units. and those are clearly an absolute obligation. section 9 of that contract reads as follows: sec. 9. annual contributions by pha. subject to and in accordance with all the provisions of part 2 hereof. and in order to assist in achieving and maintaining the lowrent character of each project. the pha shall make annual contributions to the local authority in the amount and for the period specified in part 2. the thing i would like to ask very specifically is: is it the intention that the united states shall ho its obligations undertaken under these contracts which are entitled "annual contributions contract." provided they have been entered intoas was said in the course of the debateprovided they have been entered into in accordance with actual authorization contained in the congressional acts.
. reserving the right to object. i think the gentlemans request is a little broad. there are sections on housing in other parts of the bill much further along than this. for example. on page 44. which certainly could have some conation in respect to housing so far as administration and other aspects are concerned.
 of the subcommittee. he has showed me all the facts and figures and there seems to be some difference of view over this matter of the assistant commissioner of fha. i think it is very important. because it is a way to get middleincome housing and have apartmenthouse dwellers own their own units.
. i believe that federal rent control is justified until the problem in those described cities in the states which will  give them rent control under the defense emergency is sufficiently reduced. there are still 5 million housing units. about onethird of those which could be affected. under federal rent control. certainly the problem is still emous. i believe. therefore. this is a proper place for the interposition of the congress. and i shall support this amendment.
. i believe that this is a very desirable measure. home ownership by veterans is one of the great benefits of our free society. we should be careful to see that the assurance we wish veterans to have on this score is implemented by the availability of mortgage money to back the gi bill of rights in giving veterans the opportunity for home ownership. this is especially important at a time like this when we are trying to hold interest rates down and to facilitate home loans for veterans. the direct loan provision is a realistic measure to do the governments full share in this field. i believe it is essential also to give similar consideration for direct loans in respect of other types of housing development such as that. for instance. provided under section 213 of the national housing act which provides for veterans cooperatives. where mortgage money is also very hard to come by at reasonable interest rates.
. the point i wish to emphasize to the committee as a preliminary to the offering of the particular amendments which i shall concentrate upon with relation to middleincome housing is that with interest rates going up. and they are going up. which is extremely deplorablei think everybody concerned with the housing picture is quite sick over that situationwe have at least got to facilitate the availability of mortgage money for these projects.. especially veterans cooperatives. which is a real solution to the middleincome housing problem i hope very much. despite the fact it is saturday and we are anxious to get through with this bill. that we recognize the issue at stake and give the amendments the consideration and the interest which they deserve. considering the people they are designed to help.
. i hope very much this amendment will be found acceptable both to the majority and to the miity sides. because it deals with a fundamental point which is quite unjust as it stands . sections 207 and 608. which the clerk referred to in reading the amendment. cover the building of socalled middleincome houses. under the law. that type of housing is entitled to longer mortgage terms. more liberal mortgages. and various other privileges. in return for those privileges the housing commissioner is given authority. and i use the words of the statute. to "regulate or restrict rents." in pursuance of that power. he. of course. can permit the rents to be raised over what they were when the project was constructed and when he first approved them. what is happening in these situations is this. the owner of these properties will file an application for a rent increase with the federal housing commissioner and the commissioner believes according to the law the tenants of that particular project have right to even see or even look at the figures which the landlord or the owner has filed. hence. they can neither look at them  depose any objecting data. i talked with the com- missioner about such projects in my district where the rents have been raised  once but twice. and where the tenants feel outraged that they can even see the figures upon which the owner depends. i talked with the commissioner and he says he is very sorry but that is the law and that is the way he interprets it. i communicated with the new federal housing commissioner. our former colleague. hon. albert cole. and asked him about this. he replied saying that this is true. that under the law they have authority to even show anybody the figures. and he says. and i quote from his letter. "there is lacking appropriated funds for the inauguration of the type of procedure suggested by you." what i had suggested to him. of course. was the whole paly which we are accustomed to in these cases of ice and hearing. and so forth. and when he answered me as he did. that he did  feel they had money to do that. i confined my amendment solely to one thingto give the tenants affected the right to see what the owner has filed and to give them the right under oath to file any answering data. that imposes new obligations whatever on the housing commisisoner except the incidental obligation of having a clerk available who will pull the material out of the files and show it to a person who calls. and who shows he is a tenant of the property. that certainly is  very much. there are too many of these properties where the tenants feeli do  say or do  use this word looselywhere they feel this is just an unamerican procedure that they can even see what the landlord claims. the housing and home finance agency also states that- they have all the basic figures on these properties. the cost of construction and so on. they do  need any help from the tenants in deciding when rents ought to be increased. mortgage rates go up and taxes go up. the difficulty is that the rent increases are asked for on the basis of increased services in the building like a doorman or some kind of elevator operation or some kind of cleaning service. this obviously the fha does  k anything about. and the tenants may  even be getting these services. and yet they have opportunity to even examine the figures and put in any data in opposition. as i say. it seems to me an elementary thing and very unjust. it is one of those things in the law which only experience shows up to be unjust. i would hope very much that both the majority and the miity side will see the justice of it. and at least let the tenants look at the figures and file anything they see that is in opposition to these figures with the housing commissioner so that at least he has the benefit of both stories without the necessity of hearing them or any complication which would cost more money and which he properly objected to. i think. i hope very much this will be done. and if the committee does  accept it. that the committee of the whole will accept it as an elementary measure of justice.
i thank the gentleman. the county of queens. from which my colleague comes. is the center of this veterans housing activity. it is  centered in my particular district. but i think it is critically important to the veterans of the country. they are interested in it. they want it. they have actually gone to work and put it together. i think the least we can do in the congress is to facilitate it for them. i emphasize this is  using our money. it is using credit. and credit backed by the best security in the world. apartments owned by the veterans themselves. i hope very much that the committee of the whole will approve this amendment. this will represent a real forward step for middleincome housing. for which we will have the universal thanks of the veterans of the country.
. when we go back into the house i shall ask unanimous consent to introduce into the record an exchange of correspondence which i have had with the federal housing commissioner on the subject of the policy of the federal housing administration in respect of segregation and discrimination practices on the ground of race. creed. or color in the administration of the law. in which he in practical effect says they are requiring in the certification that there be restrictive covenants on properties covered by fha mortgages. and that when fha itself sells property it sells it without any limitation. requirement. or condition based upon race. creed. or color. i believe this should be part of the proceedings on this bill. this exchange of correspondence follows herewith: hon. guy hollyday. administrator. federal housing administration. washington. d. c. dear mr. hollyday: when the defense housing bill was before the house of representatives in august 1951 (82d cong.) there was considerable discussion as to the policy of the federal housing administration with regard to racial segregation and discrimination in the projects with which it guaranteed mo&tgages. i would appreciate very much your advising me as to present fha policy and any projected plans on policy regarding (1) guaranties on mortgages for projects in which segregation or discrimination in choosing buyers or tenants is practiced. and (2) properties disposed of by fha in respect of segregation or discrimination in connection with such disposition or resulting private ownership. sincerely. j. k. javrrs. member of congress. federal housing administration. washington. d. c.. june 18. 1953. hon. j. k. javrrs. house of represenatives. washington. d. c. dear ma. javrrs: i am pleased to give you the information requested in your letter of with respect to question  (1) the mortgagor under a mortgage insured by this administration may sell. or lease. or allow his property to be occupied in accordance with his own wishes. he must. however. certify that until the mortgage has been paid in full. or the contract of insurance otherwise terminated. he will  file for record any restriction upon the basis of race. color. or creed or execute any agreement. lease. or conveyance affecting the mortgaged property which imposes any such restriction upon its sale or occupancy. we have in the past and shall continue to insure rental properties the units of which are offered by the mortgagor on an open occupancy basis. with respect to question  (2) property acquired by this administration is offered by the commissioner for rent or sale without any limitations. requirements or conditions based upon race. color. or creed. sincerely. guy t. 0. hollyday. commissioner.
. it is  necessary to agree with my distinguished friend from massachusetts in order to sustain the position of my friend from illis and to state that i will support his motioa for the restoration of federal publichousing units. and i hope a majority of the house will do so. may i remind my friend from massachusetts that pleading partisanship on this issue will  carry it. i was sponsor in the house of the tew bill and it took republican votes to pass it as the housing act of 1949. it has taken republican votes every time the subject has been up to carry the publichousing program. i regret to state that the motions to kill public housing on appropriation bills in this houseand it has been done in a number of yearshave always come from the democratic side. i do  think partisanship will carry public housing . the house of representatives is the conscience of the country. we have to exercise our conscience in two respects: first. are we going to be pettifogging about these annual contributions contracts that have been made or are we going to be the great conscience of america and ho the moral commitments of the united states. under the law as contained in the appropriation bills. the publichousing authorities had a right to assume that the federal publichousing program was stabilized at 35.000 units per year until advised to the contrary. the great amount of planning. labor. and expense which goes into the development of publichousing projects in municipalities. including land acquisition. condemnation. clearing. and resettlement of occupants of existing structures. is a dynamic process. so are arrangements for the necessary publichousing financing. it must be remembered that under the federal housing program the municipal housing authorities arrange all their financing and take all other necessary actions based only on the federal annual contributions contracts. it is impossible to ask municipalities to undertake this process without a federal government commitment. the commitments in the annual contributions contracts were made only after an emous amount of preliminary work and by approval of high executive authority. there could be federal publichousing program unless they were undertaken. rather than implying criticism. i believe the number involved of some 60.000 shows great care and detailed planning by the fpha in the arrangements which were made. these are commitments in which the municipalities have made a material change in position. they are commitments looked to by thousands of families in the low income levels and by whole communities for housing relief. they should be hoed. i thought the appropriations committee was going to see that they were hoed. i think it would be a grave error if we did . surely avenues can be found in these contracts to avoid them. but i think any lawyer ks what he would think of aher lawyer who found that kind of avenue to avoid a contract which is a good nioral commitment. the united states can hardly be put in that position. secondly. the united states is already doing the barest minimum for the lowestincome families in this country through all publichousing programs. far less than 10 percent of total construction is public housing. even adding state and municipal public housing to that of the united states. the united states publichousing program has been the leverage for state and municipal publichousing programs in recent years. the whole slum clearance and urbanrehabilitation program which is being actively supported by the congress is based heavily upon the need for publicly assisted lowrent housing to take care of the displaced lowerincome families. the financial condition of states and municipalities makes the federal publichousing program vital to stimulate slum clearance and urbanrehabilitation activities. this does  mean that the federal program does it all or even a major part. but its stimulus value is indispensable. to cut off the program will be a realperhaps a mortalblow to the hopes for urban improvement under title i of the housing act of 1949. at a time when we are asking the greatest sacrifices of the american people. and at a time when it is statutory law that there shall be a minimal federal publichousing programthe housing act of 19491 think this house. as the conscience of the country. will make a very great mistake to end the program here and . i hope very much it will  be done. members should  be misled by any idea that the house may reconsider its action next year or that as the result of a study the federal public housing program will be revived. the stoppage of activity in respect of federal public housing projects and the complexities of putting them together again will mean a delay of several years even if congress should decide to restore the program next year. it took several years after 1949 after the act was passed to really get any federal public housing goingand it would again. i do  feel that we can call upon the people of the country for the great sacrifices which we are calling for from them without making a contribution to housing for the lowest income level in the whole community. i think the issue is clearly before us : are we or we  the conscience of our own country.
. my position on this matter is very well kn. i think we make a great mistake in social policy in adopting this report and cutting off the public housing program. i realize the situation. that the house has spoken. but i do  join with my colleague from illis in interring the federal public housing program. on the contrary. i point out that in 1937 we authorized a federal public housing program. and.it subsequently lay dormant for almost 10 years. in 1949 it was revived. i was happy to be the house sponsor of the taftellenderwagner act which was ultimately adopted by the house in 1949.
i do  agree with that at all. i have pointed out before and i point out again that you could never get the federal publichousing program through without republican votes. as you had to have before. this is  a question of party. it is a question of a social point of view. a federal publichousing program is important egh in proportion to the total housing in the united states that its vitality will. i believe. bring it out for further consideration. i should like to make one other point which i direct seriously to the chairman of the subcommittee. the united states took. as i see it. firm obligations in a governmental sense under the terms of the law and their expressed intent to build the units for which it made annual contributions contracts. under this conference report the congress is allowing only about twofifths of the total under annual contributions contracts to be built. it seems to me that we are in duty bound. both morally and ethically and according to the terms of the law. to construct the balance of this housing. many municipalities have put much effort and investment into these projected developments.i look forward to two things: first. that the vitality of this federal publichousing program will bring about its restoration. and. second. that we will authorize the construction of all those projects which are under annual contribution contracts that are so essential to slum clearance and urban redevelopment and on which emous amounts of work have been done.
i understand that. i think every member ks that i consider every member just as sincere as i am. many of these programs do  divide down the middle of the aisle. they represent sectional and social points of view. as keenly as i feel on this subject of federal public housing as a part of our total housing program including municipal and state projects. in justice to the people of our country. i k members from some other communities feel just as keenly the other way. i think it -ery important that we do  *give up on our federal publichousing program. i hope very much that my colleague from illis will work just as hard as i will to see that the congresswhether republican of my party. or democrat of his partywill do what is just for the american people and that a fair percentage of the total housing for the country in federal publichousing will be effectuated.
if the gentleman will forgive me. that will  be quite the case. for this reason. if this point of order is sustained. then there is at least a legal argument that there is existing authorization on the books for new federal public housing units. if we act affirmatively on the housing bill. there will then be an authorization on the books and the house again can work its will on a regular or any supplemental appropriation bill. to make an appropriation for the new public housing so authorized. . i ask unanimous consent that i may proceed for 2 additional minutes.
i should say as a lawyer that the chances of that are so great that we must act tomorrow to include a publichousing provision and the number of units we want in the housing bill which will be before us. i make as my first point the fact that today does  settle this argument. it can be settled tomorrow if it is  settled today. . why should it be settled affirmatively. i would like  to speak to my colleagues on the republican side. let us remember that of the housing act of 1949then kn as the taftellenderwagner billthe publichousing phase of that act would  have passed but for 23 republican votes. were it  for them it would have been defeated. traditionally. public housing always requires a coalition on both sides of the aisle to be enacted and it will require it today and tomorrow if it is to be successful. secondly. the president has presented a progressive. dynamic program and it is a complete program. you can pick and choose from the essential elements of that program. some people liked very much what was done in these last few weeks here on taxes. some did . some went along with it upon the ground that it was a complete package which was offered to them in addition to budget and taxes. in terms of social security. unemployment insurance. health. housing. foreign policy. liberalization of foreign trade. and other items. the important thing that we have got to remember is that it is  you  i. but the people. especially the people in the citiesand i emphasize this to the city members on the republican sidethe public in the cities will count public housing as a vital part of the presidents program. that is what makes it modern and moderate. that is what makes it different from the ultraconservative position. that is one of the essential hallmarks of a modern and moderate program. in the city of new york 56.000 families will be displaced by slum clearance.  less than 20.000 of those families must have public housing or there is slum clearance. there is a project being torn down in my district right  that will displace 3.500 families. over half must go back into public housing. they are all families at the lower ecoic levels. otherwise that site will remain empty.
i hope very much that we will find a sufficient number who will follow the leadership of the president on this question. i would like to make one other point which is very important. that is. that there is a commitment involved here for the construction of some 35.000 housing units which commitment this house previously recognized when it passed upon this subject in 1952 and 1953. if the provisions for public housing are completely stricken out of this bill. i think it is a very grave question as to whether the very prestige of congress is  itself being jeopardized. i will say to my colleagues that as i see it. this is a great test vote. especially for the representatives from the big cities are republicans all of them. you do  get everybodys vote for anything here. and ody expects itbut are republicans going to put egh support behind this essential part of the presidents program which deals with authorizing 140.000 units of new federal public housing in the next 4 years to insure to the country that his program is really moderate and modern or are they going to pick and choose the ultraconservative parts and reject the parts which make it moderate and modern. that is the real test here.
s program. what we are affecting today is the preeisenhower program. everything that has been discussed here about public housing i would like the members to k is entirely valid and will be germane to what we act on tomorrow. . 
s advisory committee on government housing policies and programs found as a fact. and i refer to page 200 of the hearings before the committee. after an exploration of all the alternatives which were available to public housing. they came to the conclusion that you could  carry through a reasonable and balanced housing program. which the administration is for unless it had a component of public housing. and they said: we are convinced that the program of public housing contained in the housing act of 1949 should be continued. that component the administration has requested at a minimum at 35.000 publichousing units per year for 4 years. so i hope that my republican colleagues will  be taken in by jibes from the other side because they are  charged with the power which involves the responsibility based upon the facts. and in view of the established condition of urban renewal they are meeting a condition and  a theory.
well. the new director of public housing in this administration said he had applications from 1.100 cities. and that certainly is a representative part of our country involving 500.000 units. to participate in this program. of course. he could  entertain those applications as the law stands . the administrations program before us today. which i k will be offered as part of this bill. covers just about the preliminary loan contracts. that is. projects actually in being upon which the preliminary work has been done and which largely are vital and essential elements of the slum clearance and the urban redevelopment program. so much so that i think it is fair to sayand i believe that any member can say to his constituency whether it likes public housing or that this is an integral and essential element of the administrations housing program. and demonstrably so on the facts.
the gentleman addressing the committee does  believe it will help to get public housing into any partisan "hassle." the gentleman is  confident that the house will have before it every conceivable kind of proposal for this publichousing program which anyone could ask. it will have before it i understand a continuance of the taftellenderwagner bill provision for the balance of 810.000 units of public housing. a bill in which. as the gentleman ks. i took an active part. it will have from the gentleman who is asking the question i understand. the presidents programwhich i am also quite prepared to offer myself. it will have other proposals along the same line. and of course the house will make its choice. i must say that my purpose in addressing the committee is to get a maximum amount of support for the administrations program which though i am for much more. as all k. strikes me as the practical way in which to get the maximum support for the minimum publichousing components within the concept of a balanced housing program. and the objective of 1.500.000 new housing units in the coming fiscal year.
i think the gentleman ks what the presidents proposal is and i have just stated my position. i am glad to have the support of the speaker of the house for a program. but the presidents program is 35.000 units public housing per year for 4 years. and i am confident that whether offered by someone else or by me. that program will be offered for adoption by the committee of the whole.
i k of change. . we have an effort to have a housing program that will meet the fundamental needs of the three income levels in the community. i think the members should have in mind how those are divided. roughly speaking 20 percent of american families come in the brackets each of $2.000 to $3.000 a year. $3.000 to $4.000 a year. and $4.000 to $5.000 a year of income. essentially. this housing program should be designed to meet those needs. and a vital ingredient of it is public housing. in addition. i believe that the maximum limits for section 203 housing in this bill do  meet the requests of those who are doing the construction. either for planning or for the amount which they require in order to do the housing job which the country expects of them. i believe the situation is such that we should meet their views and leave them reason why they are  going to do the housing job which is in the interests of the country. and the final point which i wish to put before the committee before we are through with the consideration of this bill is the situation of miities with respect to housing. they are having a rough time of it. the fha could help the situation if they would adopt a policy  to lend their guaranty to any form of segregation in housing. but that they are going to comply with the spirit and the letter of the constitution. they have that power and i hasten to add had it in the previous administration which made so much of its civil rights stand and did  use it either. i do  think it is egh. as far as miities are concerned. to encourage projects which will serve them. i think the fha should take a foursquare view of that whole program and carry out the constitution in respect of it.
 made this pledge in a speech when he said: whenever the federal government has responsibility. wherever it collects taxes from -you to spend money. whether it be in a contract for recreational facilities or anything else that it does for a citizen of the united states. there will be discrimination as -long as i can help it in private or public life. * * * wherever funds are used. where federal authority extends. there will be fairness. miity groups are  being adequately housed and the fault is lack of mortgage money. that has been found to be true by the national association of home builders which finds in its magazine. march 1954. nahb correlator. that lack of mortgage money is responsible for 40 percent of the lack of activity in the field of housing miity groups. how do you get mortgage money. the only way is by enabling the miity groups to get into projects for which lenders will lend. the housing and home finance agency is trying to encourage projects to include miities. but that is  the way the job can be done. laudable as it is. you have to go directly to the root of the problem. which is to take the segregation lid off projects *made possible by fha guaranteed mortgages if miity groups are really to have housing opportunity.
i thank the gentleman for his remarks. we have been talking about housing for miity groups all aftern. this is a direct way. by this amendment. in which to get housing for miity groups.  those alone who need public housing but all miity groups in all income levels. i trust the committee will adopt this amendment.
i just want to ask the gentleman whether he agrees with me that there is single piece of legislation of greater interest in the big cities than this particular part of the presidents program for a very minimum amount of public housing. we hear the gentlemen from the farm areas and droughtrelief areas think hing of requesting hundreds of millions for programs having exactly the same justification in government policy as public housing. the people of the big cities k. regardless of party. that a federal quotient of public housing is absolutely indispensable to any slum clearance or urban redevelopment or to any balanced housing program in any big city.
i will say to the gentleman that i intend to support the motion to recommit. and that i believe we should back up the president. i believe that the masterful job which has been done here is to reconcile people who are generally unfavorable to federally assisted lowrent housing. but i think those who are favorable to federally assisted lowrent housing have their last chance to vote. and must get behind it today. because i am convinced it will be a major issue in the cities. certainly. in the elections of 1954. and that the great majority of the city people want the presidents program. it is incompatible with the majestic power of government to provide without providing. the conference report says it authorizes 35.000 federally assisted lowrent housing units for the next fiscal year but the condition tied to it reduces the figure to an estimated 10.000 units. the president has already given us a program which is so reasonable as to be on the minimum side of 35.000 of such units each year for 4 years a total of 140.000 as voted by the other body and we can understand and agree with .the presidents views which were designed to attract the most widespread support for the program at the same time that it met the rockbottom needs as found by the survey of a presidential commission. the reasonable administration program meant just 3 percent of new housing starts to be federally assisted lowrent housing designed to help onethird of our countrys families. which come within the generally eligible income brackets. to meet their housing needs. slum clearance. urban redevelopment. and community development must have advance planning. such opportunity is given adequately under the legislation  in the conference report. in addition. tying federally assisted lowrent housing to relocation of eligible tenants displaced from slum clearance is impossibly restrictive as it excludes balanced community development with the aid of federal lowrent housing. relocation of tenants displaced due to road improvement and other municipal improvements. areas where slum clearance is impractical. the avoidance of the creation of new slums. and the use of open land with great savings is made difficult if  impossible in federally assisted lowrent housing under the conditions of the conference report. state and municipally assisted lowrent housing programs. experience has shown will  flourish unless sparked by federally assisted lowrent housing. it is significant to me that the senior member of the other body from new york. one of the conferees refused to sign this report. though the report has many desirable features. and my whole record shows my devotion to all measures to increase the overall supply of housing. i can support this report unless it carries at least a minimal amount of federally assisted lowrent housing without impossible conditions as in this way alone is it a balanced housing program for all the american people.
. i had in mind asking a question on the bill. i have read it with great care. in an effort to find where it deals with va loans. i understand a separate program is expected for that purpose. i think it should be made very clear to the senateand i enter this debate as a "new recruit"-that it is the 50 million families who are in the $5.000 income bracket whose savings we are discussing. i always thought we were reconciled to paying some price for runaway inflation in the cost of government. which we hoped would end in 1952. i should like to ask the senator from alabama. the chairman of the subcommittee. two questions. first i shoul like to commend him for his outstanding way of conducting the hearings on the housing bill. the chairman of the subcommittee has rendered fine service. we k a great many more things than we talk about. or we imply we k them. one is that we are trying to redress a certain social imbalance. apparently. credit is being consumed too much in other areas which we do  consider socially more desirable than housing. i should like to ask two questions. the first is. what will be done. or what is in contemplation. about the va loans. those who are trying to get va loans are feeling the pinch the hardest. the number of va loans has been cut in two because money is  available. we have 20.000 units in long island. the fastest growing area in new york. where mortgages can be closed because exgis can find the money available. they can get the money. that is my first question. question  2: i invite the senators attention specifically to the question asked by my friend. the senator from indiana. which. it is said. is answered in the bill. i wish the chairman would show us where. how are we going to get a flow of mortgage money. in an effort to reverse the present trend of interest rates in this highly desirable field of housing. perhaps the time has come. in terms of inflation. which ran wild up to the end of 1952 and which was temporarily stopped. to do this. i think one of the prices we paid was a higher interest rate. perhaps the time has come. . when we should say that the balance is going the other way. and we should change the emphasis. and come to lower rates. and show in this bill how to do it. i thank the chairman for giving me this opportunity to ask questions. and i hope he will address his attention to the two points i have raised.
i should like to call the senators attention to what i consider a fundamental point of american life in the senate and in the house. where i had the privilege of serving. namely. that whatever the senator has said about the figures demonstrates one other point. that without the 6 republican votes. there would  have been the 41 votes for public housing. i should like to call further attention to the fact that when the housing act of 1949 was passed. i had the privilege of being its informal manager in the house on the republican side. it took some 23 republican votes to pass it at all. i can assure the senator that if those votes had  been available. the bill never would have passed. if i may finish my thought. because i am  making a barren political statement. since that would be valueless. i think the most significant point is that those who are deeply devoted to this subject. those who are deeply devoted to civil rights. those who are deeply devoted to immigration legislation. in all their partisan zealwhich i admire. and which is the stuff of life in our country. and it is finemust be very careful  to isolate and make impossible the necessary support without which the issue itself will go down the drain. i think that must always be borne in mind. and i hope my colleagues will keep it in mind.
i wish to say that i appreciate the very fine things that have been said. i ice that in this body. if the senator from minnesota will permit me. our members are more truly polite to each other. even if they differ very sharply they show a personal affection which is most gratifying. i feel that the senator from minnesota is an outstanding public servant. working with fervor and sincerity for the causes in which he deeply believes. people are always grateful for that kind of service. i hope very much that in these most cordial exchanges between men who have kn each other a long time and seen each other through many battles. the main point will  be missed. we really must draw a lesson from a very pertinent case like housing from which a lesson can be drawnthat as we serve the people. we can serve them best if we stop just this side of losing by our excess of partisan zeal that indispensable support which is indispensable in terms of great issues which we are so proud to back. that goes for both sides of the aisle. * as a new member of the senate. i shall take away a new and deeper imprint of what i consider to be this truth from this debate. i hope my colleagues will do the same thing.
the clue to the question asked by the senator may be found in that provision. by way of conclusion. i point out that tomorrow i shall offer two amendments. which are lying at the desk. one is an endeavor to make further progress in the field of international travel. where considerable progress has already been made. but in which we can and ought to do a good deal more. this is the cheapest and most happy kind of foreign aid. my amendment proposes that we shall look into existing barriers to international travel. which i understand consist largely of the matter of hotel accommodations and housing in europe and in other areas of the world. the second amendment proposes that in the matter of private investment. the government shall guarantee against the contingencies of revolution and internal insurrection. a subject which has been much mooted between the two houses for some years. and which i hope can be resolved this year.
i should like to take my 3 minutes on this subject. so as  to intrude on the time of other senators. let me say to the able senator from texas that i could  agree with him more completely. a number of us have sent telegrams urging that there be executive action in the matter of reducing downpayments. the situation is especially difficult for veterans. because the gi law. with its 4/2 percent interest rate. is practically useless . an emous number of sales of new housing have been made throughoutthe country. a great many new downpayments have been made on the very justifiable supposition that the president would  have signed the bill if he had  intended to put its provisions into effect. that is inherent in the expressed will of congress. incidentally. the decision referred to has  yet been made final. i certainly hope very earnestly that this taking up of the cudgels. which is so ably typified by the contributions of the senator from texas and of other senators. including the chairman of the housing subcommittee. the senator from alabama . will have the desired result. i am very happy to have heard the senator from texas make his statement.
. the purpose of my amendment is in way unfriendly to the bill. the amendment is for the purpose of extending the period for the maturity of a mortgage on the typical onefamily dwelling which is dealt with by the bill from a possible maximum of 30 years to a possible maximum of 40 years. my position regarding the bill is entirely friendlyas is my position in regard to the effort being made by the committee to bring in. in what i regard as an admirable way. an antirecession housing bill. extension of the term of the mortgage from 30 years to 40 years will have the effect of lowering the monthly payments by means of which most of these homes are bought at the present time.
my amendment would have the effect of lowering the monthly payments. the means by which most of these homes are bought. in view of the fact that the chief problem confronting the country is how to deal with middleincome housing. it seems to me that this amendment. if adopted. would make a real contribution. because as the cost is lowered. we come closer to what middleincome families can afford. the great hope for middleincome housing . aside from cooperative housing in the cities. which have  as yet attained great size. is in the kind of housing to which this particular section of the national housing act is directed. payments would be brought down somewhere between 15 and 25 percent. depending on interest rates. it is obvious that if the term of the mortgage is extended. there will be continued payment of interest. so over the whole length of the mortgage greater interest will be charged. . i have checked with the housing and home finance agency on the possibilities of 40year instead of 30year mortgages. the agency has advised me that there are two kinds of mortgages  which are allowed to have the 40year term on the same type of structure which i am discussing. one is insurance of mortgage in individual salestype properties under section 213 upon their release from a project sales type mortgagethat relates to a cooperative type housing projectand the other is the insurance of mortgages on homes of those who have been relocated because of dislocation brought about by the construction of roads or other programs being carried on by the government. there is question about the actuarial questions involved in the endurance of the houses to justify a mortgage of 40 years instead of 30 years. indeed. the housing and home finance agency has stated thatwhile our experience to date has been inadequate. the fact that the 40year maximum is available under these two programs will give us an opportunity to study the effect of its use and to consider the desirability of adopting it for section 203. so the matter is having the consideration of the housing and home finance agency. i thought it was desirable and important that the subject be raised at the same time we are considering the possibility of getting the maximum amount of building which can be encouraged. and therefore the maximum amount of buying. i have discussed the matter with the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee. if he will help me at this time by stating his views on this subject. perhaps we can. dispose of the amendment very promptly.
. on behalf of myself. the senator from vermont . the senator from new jersey . my senior colleague . the senator from michigan . the senator from maine . and the senator from connecticut . i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to authorize an additional $500 million for urban renewal projects under title i of the housing act of 1949.
. i submit an amendment. intended to be proposed by me to the bill to expand the public facility loan program of the community facilities administration of the housing and home finance agency. and for other purposes. i point out it is my purpose to amend the bill to include civil defense facilities.
i should like to join with many other senators in publicly expressing my praise for the constructive work done by the senator from arkansas on the two bills he has mentioned. namely. the housing and the community facilities bills. housing promises  to be a really bright spot in the bailing out process. i join thoroughly in the senators point of view on that. the senator and i have been found on the same side in many other cases. i should like to refer again to the pending bill. there is an analogy. it seems to me. in federal aid. for example. with respect to impacted areas in terms of education. even the federal aid to education bill proposes to help only those areas which are unable to help themselves. also. i see an analogy to our situation in the world. the senator from arkansas is a distinguished apostle of peace. and i believe he is the second ranking member of the committee on foreign relations. the senator from arkansas has supported foreign aid very often and very eloquently. there. it seems to me. we apply the same principle. namely. we are seeking peace. we help those places where we believe. by giving ecoic aid. we can do the most for the cause of peace. we do  give ecoic aid where we think it is  needed. that could be considered discriminatory to those who do  get it. but. nevertheless. we are contributing to our objective. which is the cause of peace and world stability. i believe here. too. by pursuing the national objective. it does the most good to the largest states. in other words. the largest earners get the most out of it. although they do  get any of the money the bill would make available. that is my only point. i thank the senator for letting me interrupt him.
. i have had printed an amendment. identified as "7958b." which seeks to extend from 30 years to 40 years the allowable time for mortgages under section 203 (b) (3) of the national housing act. i have  called up the amendment. and i do  propose to call it up. because i believe the committee has had before it a rather extensive amount of testimonyincluding testimony from meon the desirability of that change. in that connection. i refer my colleagues to the hearings on the housing act of 1958. pages 238243 and page 613. i think that in the building industry. there is an emous amount of sentiment in favor of that change. it would result in reducing the carrying charges on individual homes by approximately 1 percent. as contrasted with the present situation. and it also would result in a 9 percent saving in terms of the monthly carrying charge for the mal house. which includes payments on both principal and interest. in the case of so many of the fha mortgages. i am confident the distinguished chairman of the housing subcommittee. the junior senator from alabama . regards this matter in the same way i do. in view of his traditional desire to encourage home building and home ownership. at this time i seek assurance that this question continues to be under really active consideration by the subcommittee. with a view to taking action on it if. as a result of the experience with other 40year programs under the present law. such action is found to be desirable.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to authorize additional funds for urban renewal projects under title i of the housing act of 1949. and for other purposes. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may lie at the desk until the close of business tomorrow for additional cosponsorship.
. i think it should be pointed out that the bill deals with a subject which i believe to be extremely helpful from the point of view of the development of communities on urbanrenewal sites. i shall  trouble the senate at this time with the details. but the bill encourages. for the first time. the establishment of publichousing projects upon the urbanrenewal sites themselves. in view of the fact that most urbanrenewal developments will include some commercial establishments and. in many cases. cooperative apartments or apartments otherwise held at higher prices than those charged for public housing. i think the new provision of the bill gives us some assurance of balanced communities. and also i believe it buttresses the point of public housing as part of the essential development of urban renewal and the utilization of important metropolitan facilities continuously. rather than to abandon them because people longer live there. so. in view of the very modest amount of public housing which  is provided forand which those of us who. like myself. who have fought this battle for 16 years . recognize to be very modest and very limited. because it is for the relocation of families for which such housing is most urgently neededi hope this modicum will  be cast out of the bill. i believe it is essential to a modest housing program and housing act. so i hope very much that this provision will be retained in the bill.
i should like to endorse as a personal finding the statement being made by the senator from pennsylvania. in my own state of new york. and particularly in the city of new york. there probably is a greater amount of urban renewal and other forms of redevelopment work taking place than in any other section of the country. the city is losing population. because people who are uprooted as a result of such redevelopment work. and who are middleincome people. find it cheaper to get a house in the country. which may be much more inconvenient in terms of their business or social life. but who are nevertheless compelled to do so by the ecoics of the situation. this results in the city. which has provided tremendous utilities and other assets for its citizens. losing a population of. generally speaking. a highly desirable kind. i do  think that is in the interest of the united states. i deeply believe the kind of approach which has been suggested by the senator from pennsylvania is essential to meet that problem. in new york we have authorized $150 million in loans by a state agency for just such a purpose. under the socalled mitchelllama program. i believe it is an intelligent approach. we talked about balanced housing standards. certainly. this is a way to obtain one. i also point out that where it is money which represents the difference between the capability for extending housing to middle income families or and that is what it is. it is low interest money which makes it possible. hing elsethere we come into the lincolnian concept of government. lincoln said the government should  do anything which the people could do for themselves better than the government could. but if the people could  do it better for themselves. indeed could  do it for themselves at all. then the government should do it. it seems to me this is the very area in which that concept fits. any doctrinaire idea that we should  make direct loans goes out the window. because we make them to the reas we make them to farmers. we make them to many. many other segments of the population. but when it comes to the city dwellers. who pay most of the taxes. and who are 100 million strong. we suddenly get doctrinaire and full of principle and say. "  for them.  even a few million dollarscompared to the hundreds of millions of dollars which have gone in the other directions which i have named. it is also important to point out that we are going to authorize some directloan money for veterans. under the provisions of the bill. and i thoroughly agree with that. we are probably going to authorize some directloan money for colleges. which is also needed. i deeply believe the suggestions made in the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania are eminently sound. i am  kidding myself.  is the senator from pennsylvania. we may  get anywhere with this in the bill presently under consideration. but as sure as fate if we are going to continue to try to remake the face of america in terms of housing we must have. between public housing and housing which is largely attributable to government guarantees of mortgages. this kind of program. otherwise we will be disenfranchising in housing terms a material and very large section of the population. i k the senator from pennsylvania and i will continue our effort along this line. because it is eminently needed and eminently correct. i congratulate the senator for his initiative on this particular fight and the amendment.
 to proclaim may each year as senior citizens month. in the next two decades. the proportion of our population past 60 will increase more than 65 percent. this tdngressionaliecord -senate means that all of us must be made aware  of the need to initiate and support legislation and promote programs aimed at preventing discrimination because of age in employmentonly a handful of states presently have such a law on their booksand of equal importance providing special housing for older people including those who have retired and often live on sharply reduced incomes. the department of health. education. and welfare reports that less than 5 percent of the housing problems of the aged have actually been met so far by existing state and federal efforts. however. some progress has been made in the area of broadened social security for the aged which was passed by congress last year. although further steps need to be taken. in 1957 the center for aging research in the national institutes of health was established. marking a real step forward. the appropriate ceremonies and activities to be held by states and localities in celebration of senior citizens month should also focus on the tremendous desire of our aging to expand their horizons. to train for new tasks and to cultivate fresh interests. nearly 3 million americans past the age of 50 are attending adult education courses. including more than 50.000 americans over 75 years of age. their deep interest in courses in civic and public affairs. general education. trade courses. and classes offering business. technical. and agricultural training reflect the healthy. vigorous outlook of the great majority of our senior citizens who wish to continue developing their manual skills and mental capacity to benefit themselves. their famflies. and their nation.
since the action in the committee. and since we passed the increase in gi permissible interest rates in the housing bill. i have received some complaints. i believe other members of the committee have also received complaints. upon a reappraisal of the situation. does the chairman of our subcommittee remain convinced that in order to provide money for veterans. it is necessary to make this increase. and that events which have transpired since the bill was passed. both in the house and senate. do  change our attitude because of a changed attitude. perhaps. on the part of banks. the market. the veterans administration. or the veterans themselves. we still remain satisfied that this is the essential thing to do.
there is question about that. let me point out one other thing. we have utilities in which billions and billions of dollars are invested. we have approximately $8 billion invested in the center of new york in new industrial and commercial construction. emous buildings are going up. which are the pride of our country. yet all around those buildings. lapping right at their construction and constricting it more and more. are the slum areas. we are  making progress on the diminution of those slum areas. moreover. we have tremendous populations which deserve a fair chance in life. the dignity and light which come with decent housing. urban renewal is the new scheme. indeed. the present administration considered this a matter of. great pride. this was going to be the point to be emphasized in respect to the whole housing program. it does  contribute to inflation. on the contrary. it is the most fruitful source for adding resources and assets to our country. i am terribly disappointed with regard to the bill. that is what the senator is expressing for all of us. i am terribly disappointed. the only reason. as i see it. why senators such as us will have to support the conference report is that it does  fall between two stools. that does  mean we should  protest vigorously against it and move heaven and earth to supcv723 plement it. beginning right . this is what we can do . tomorrow we ought to start again to do our utmost to improve the situation. as the senator is so magnificently proving. the conference bill is grossly inadequate and unfair to the country.
 has a right to veto the bill if that is what he believes his duty to be. in that event. he was absolutely correct in vetoing it. but it is our duty to see that this session does  end without the passage of housing legislation. which. in my opinion. is urgently required by the american people and is urgently required in order to continue our prosperity. so i hope very much. and pledge myself as one senator and as a member of the banking and currency committee. to do everything i can to bring about the enactment of housing legislation at this session of congress. i believe that is clearly the duty of the congress to the american people.
i think i have evidenced my views. certainly one begins with the basic prescription of the six points the president has named. in my view. i would  change the local share of the costs for urban renewal. i think that is a subject upon which we have to do our utmost to enlighten the country. and perhaps those in the administration as well. in terms of the needs of the cities. i believe that provisions for public housing are absolutely essential in a housing bill. and i believe we must do our best in that regard. furthermore. i do  believe urban renewal will be well served by simply providing for a 1year authorization. the veto may indicate the necessity for a scaling down of the amounts. but i believe we should do our utmost to effectuate a 2year program. even though the president may be given wide authority to determine. in the national interest. how much may go into the program in the 2 years. in any case. i believe we need a 2year program. . the veto message naturally will perhaps take a little more study than we have been able to give to it at this particular moment. but i have indicated some of the lines of compromise. i hope very much our committee in the senate will proceed at once to address itself to a housing bill with the aim of reporting it to the senate as promptly as humanly possible. and that we will take a common resolve  to go home until we have given the country a housing bill in 1959something we did  do in 1958.
i would . i have already indicated i deeply believe we have to add to what is contained in the presidents message other matters which i have mentioned. one of them being public housing. we all k the president of the united states is a man of high principle and high character. that fact has been testified to by persons on both sides of the aisle. i think i can say with pardonable pride that i was one of his original supporters. i believe in him as a leader for peace in the world. that does  mean we can have our differences. as we have about this particular housing bill. hence. i do  believe congress must pass a bill according to the prescription as laid down by the administration. but. on the contrary. we have to take aher look  at what the president has recommended in light of what the country needs. perhaps we shall need some hearingsi hope they will be shortin an effort to impress those concerned. including the president and his advisers. with what we need as the very minimum of a housing program.
the senator from new york has illusions about his role. he represents a state which is critically interested in this problem. i have been associated with the housing problem ever since i became a member of the house in 1947. as a veteran. having previously consulted with john kennedy. who is  a member of this body. mayor wagner. and franklin roosevelt. jr.. in the first national housing conference. in an attempt to get the wagnerellendertaft bill passed. my record on housing is a longstanding one. i have illusions. in fact. i would apologize to the senator from alabama for having taken the floor first on this matter. which. i feel. on a protocol basis. belonged to him. as i said. i was in full motion on this matter. and felt compelled to speak. i hope he will forgive me for having done so.
as to the substance. i may say to the majority leader that i feel the congress has the duty  merely of making recommendations. i think the majority leader used that word. if the president does  approve the bill passed by congressand i do  say this in any reproving mannerit is the duty of the congress to make clear its functions. indeed. congress can enact a law over the presidents veto. if it feels strongly egh about it to want to do so. withstanding that legislation has to be a compromise as between the legislative and executive branches. there is also the authority and power on the part of congress to bring about a prudent result. as well as to counsel and confer. i should like to see congress enact good housing legislation. in the light of what the president thinks we ought to do. ody wants to make any threatening gestures. i have the deepest regard and respect for the president. i think the message puts us on our mettle to pass a housing bill which will commend such support that it will become lawi hope with the presidents signature.
 and the overwhelming majority of the members of the house and senate together can pass a housing bill and make it law. perhaps our job. therefore. is to seek more supporters. which i am confident we will get. i hope very much we will go about this rather promptly. i thank my colleagues for their indulgence.
s attitude is an "allorhing" attitude. he says: there remains. however. a need for the enactment in this session of the congress of legislation. such as i recommended last january. which will carry forward our important housing programs on a sound basis. i do  read that statement. in the light of its climate or implication. judging from the character of the man himself. as an "allorhing" attitude. i k the problems and the deep feelings of the majority leader. i hope we shall  invite a contest of wills on this subject. i believe that the differences can be compromised. i regret that the compromise we submittedand i agree with the majority leader that it was a compromisewas  enacted into law. but i believe that the differences can be compromised. and i believe that the way to bring about a compromise is to adhere strictly to the facts and merits of a housing program.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a housing bill containing a key antisecrecy amendment to the housing act of 1949 which would affect all title i projects under the federal urban renewal program. it would require full public disclosure by redevelopers of all pertinent information as to the prospective sponsors. rental and sales costs. and type of new construction planned on title i sites before any agreement or contract can be made by the public agency concerned. this amendment has been reviewed and found ujectionable by the housing and home finance agency and by the bureau of the budget. in addition to checking it out with the administration. i have also informed the new york city administration about this proposed amendment and i am satisfied that it will find the amendment advantageous. too. it will  discourage sponsorship of title i projects. and this is evidenced by a letter published in the new york times of today. written by lewis whiteman. executive director of the investment builders association. inc.. which reads as follows: the members of this association. who include most of the leading private investment builders of this city. are pleased and encouraged by your public anncement today that you will take steps to strengthen and improve the administration of the citys title i program. although the greatest sources of private investment capital and construction experience are to be found right here in new york city. it is significant that there has been overwhelming rush by reputable builders to get into the slumclearance program. many builders are lukewarm about it because the ion persists that under current procedures its all pretty cut and dried in advance as to which sponsor gets the job. the inference that any one sponsor is favored may be a blatant lie. and yet the most effective way to dispel unfounded suspicions of this kind. and to remove the general attitude of hostility which most builders have toward the program. is to make free and open bidding a reality. and  a mere preachment. it is  a question of how legal these local procedures may be. or how righteous their intent. the fact remains that. at the very least. they have had the effect of restricting the program to a privileged few who have been able to dig in behind a fortified linewhile at the same time they have erected some very real. even though unintended. barricades against other outside potential sponsors.
. i also incorporate in the record the statement made by dr. ralph bunche on this matter. taken from the new york times of today: i deliberately revealed this experience only because i find it to be rather shocking in new york city and think citizens of the city and of the country generally are entitled to k about it. but i keep the story in proper perspective. neither i  my son regard it as a hardship or a humiliation. rather it is a discredit to the club itself. it is . of course. in the category of the disfranchisement. deprival of other rights. segregation and acts of intimidation suffered by many negroes in the south and of discrimination in employment and housing suffered by most negroes in the th as well as the south. but it flows from the same well of racial and religious bigotry. it confirms what i have often stated. namely that negro american can be free from the disabilities of race in this country until the lowliest negro in mississippi is longer disadvantaged solely because of race. in short. until racial prejudice has been everywhere eliminated. i am in fact glad to have this unpleasant but necessary lesson made real in this way to my son.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. and appropriately referred. a resolution adopted by the new york state association of real estate boards. inc.. relating to the kinzua. pa.. versus the conewango. n.y.. floodcontrol plans.
s veto message in an attempt to have the senate vote to override the veto. i deprecate that action. whatever may be my vote or that of any other senator upon this issue. i deprecate it because i fear it may tend to harden the lines of difference between the white house and congress. when the country so urgently needs a housing bill. it is very hard to pour oil on waters so troubled as these. i can only express the hopeand i think it is really the hope of all the people of the countrythat if the effort to override the veto should fail. congress will immediately close ranks and pass a housing bill. i understand the vote will come very promptly. if tempers are allowed to become exacerbated and the issue between the administration and congress is permitted to harden as a result of this move. which is rather sudden. so far as most of us are concerned. i believe it will only result in delaying. perhaps even blocking. a housing bill this year. as happened last year. in terms of the prosperity of the country and in terms of the housing needs which axe to be served. i think that would be a very grave and sad result. there is always a frame of reference in which a vote is had. i hope very much the frame of reference on this vote will be that if the result is  to override the veto. we shall get on with the business within hourscertainly within a dayand do what i believe should have been done today. namely. begin work on the subcommittee on housings print of the bill. and write a housing bill for this session.
on the one hand. we have to be careful  to break the camels back on a veto. but. on the other hand. we had better be careful  to break the housing bill. too. this whole fuss has been about a modest amount of public housing. in my state public housing comes to about 4 percent of the total number of new starts. that is minimal egh. if we are going to break the camels back by having any bill. we may as well have a clearcut issue. either we are going to be in favor of public housing or e at all. i do  think providing for 25.000 units would have either effect. in the process of trying to keep the president in favor of the bill. let us  go overboard and surrender completely the whole thing we have been fighting about. the number of units provided in the bill is the minimum number of units needed. we have hedged on it by allowing credit for all those units that are deadwood. that is certainly pressing this matter down to an absolute minimal basis. i hope the senate will  permit itself to be misled into completely destroying the bill. after the long fight and difficulties we have had with it.
all i seek to do is to protect what we did in committee with respect to state and local public housing projects on the urban renewal site. if the bush amendment shall be adopted. i do  k that it will be or that it will  be. but i understand that when the senator from connecticut offered his amendment. he pointed out that he had confined it to federal public housing projects on urban renewal sites and the cost basis which they shall have in respect of the different proportions of contributions by the municipal governments and the federal government. the committee graciously accepted the fact that the state of new york needs. in order to deal with its situation.  only the inclusion of federal public housing. under whatever formula is finally decided on by the senate. but also the inclusion of city public housing and state public housing. and that all of them should be subjected to whatever formula the bill provides for federal public housing. that is the only purpose of my amendmentnamely. to make the bush amendment coextensive with the present provisions of the bill. so that whatever formula the senate ultimately decides upon at least will include both federal public housing. state public housing. and local or city or community public housing. harm will be done thereby. for it is desirable for the federal government to encourage both the communities and the states to have public housing programs of their own. and to give them the benefit of whatever formula is applied to federal public housing. inasmuch as the demand for federal public housing is reduced exactly to the extent that the states and communities are able to carry their share of that responsibility. so that is the purpose of my amendment. i hope it will be considered acceptable. so that the senate then will vote on the sole question of whether it prefers the bush formula or the committee formula.
. i do  want my position to be misunderstood. let me state that i intend to stay by the bill. rather than the bush amendment. i state frankly that i do  intend to support any formula except the one provided in the bill. but i believe that in all fairness it is necessary to protect the situation of new york. which makes an affirmative contribution to housing by providing public housing of its own. therefore. whatever may be the decision of the senate in regard to the main point. i believe that change should be made in the fundamental formula  provided in the bill. in answer to the senator from illis. let me state that new york is  seeking an escape hatch. new york considers the chief issue to be the kind of formula to be provided in regard to public housing on urban sites. and it is necessary to have that formula apply equally to federal public housing. state public housing. and local or community public housing. therefore. let us proceed in such a way that the bill. including the formula it contains. will  hurt what we do  wish to hurt.
but  uniquely taken care of. that is correct. second. we may add gover dewey and gover rockefeller to the list of distinguished govers who have carried on public housing. indeed. practically all public housing in new york was constructed during gover deweys administration. i think when the overall matter is taken into consideration. my colleague will accept the proposal. i may also say to my colleague i will fight shoulder to shoulder with him in all matters affecting chicago. exceptand it pains me to say sofor lake michigan diversion.
. i can be a party to a housing bill which is  balanced. i join in the very fine statement made by my colleague. the senator from indiana namely. that it is impossible to remove slums in which poor families live. without at the same time providing for their housing needs.
may i say to the senator. too. because housing has been a kind of partisan effort. that the way the senator from alabama has handled the matter should work out very agreeably for the president also. i should have been rather unhappy to leave the president in the position where. because of his honest convictions. with which i disagree and with which the senator from alabama also disagrees. with respect to the financial aspects of the proposed legislation. all of us. including the administration. would have ended up with the dust in our mouths of merely a bare extension. and with all of the fruitful effort having gone down the drain. i wish to address myself to only one of the very fruitful aspects of the bill and put it on the agenda for the future. i refer to the question of relocation payments. we have a very grave problem in new york city. with thousands of families displaced. and with relocation a really serious problem. involving a tremendous amount of family and human difficulty. i am delighted to say that. together with other senators. like the senator from pennsylvania . who is on the floor. i had something to do with the subject. the committee has endeavored to give more liberal understanding to the relocation problem. my information. which comes to me from james felt. the distinguished chairman of the city planning commission of my home city. a very eminent city planner and housing expert. is that we must still do some very basic and material things to help solve the relocation problem. for example. it is felt that this whole matter of relocation ought to figure into basic project costs. as i said. i shall  disturb with any amendments the balance which we have attained. however. i mention this subject just by way of recording certain unfinished business and putting it on our agenda both before the committee and the senate. it is a very grave difficulty. about which i shall have the privilege of presenting to the committee detailed information from the experience of the city of new york.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a threepart housing bill to. first. increase relocation payments to a $500 maximum for individuals and families and $5.000 for businesses under the federal urban renewal program. second. double the size of the urban renewal extender fund used to finance projects in states which have temporarily exhausted their shares of existing allocations. and. third. reduce the cost of multiple rental and cooperative housing units by permitting a reduction of the fha mortgage insurance premium to a minimum of onequarter of 1 percent. the most severe human problem which can cause bitterness and resentment to be leveled against the urgently needed federal urban renewal program is that of relocation. individuals. families. small storekeepers. and big business owners have been uprooted by the tens of thousands in recent years to make way for slum clearance and new construction. in many cases the relocation assistance available to them has been inadequate to compensate for the considerable expense and losses endured by those displaced. special relocation studies in new york city. site of the nations largest urban renewal program. point up a situation common to other large urban areas like chicago. philadelphia. boston. and others. in new york city. 20.000 families have been relocated under the program since 1954 and aher 6.500 families will have to be moved between  and 1962. since 1958. relocation costs have gone up 43 percent in two projects surveyedto about $500a figure which has hing to do with the higher rents that so many of these families must pay in their new neighborhoods even for substandard housing. against that figure. the federal government  pays a maximum of $200 per family and $3.000 per business. relying on local sources to make up the difference between that amount and actual cost. in the case of individuals and famflies the bill i am introducing today would raise the federal governments maximum relocation payment to $500. with the additional $300 to be treated as a regular urban renewal project cost which is shared twothirds by the federal government and onethird by the locality. in many instances. although the moving expenses of a small commercial tenant may  be too high. dislocation from a neighborhood where he has established goodwill and built a substantial trade can lead to crippling financial loss. removal costs for the larger concern often run to several thousand dollars. according to the same study referred to above. the $3.000 maximum urban renewal costs paid such commercial establishments did  sufficiently compensate for their relocation expenses. therefore. i am proposing that the maximum be raised to a federal payment of $5.000. again with the additional $2.000 to be shared with localities. as are other costs under the urban renewal program. as u.s. cities make war on urban decay and slums. these modifications in the law regarding relocation payments should enable them with intelligent planning and in coordination with other state and local housing projects for middle- and lowincome families to alleviate the more acute problems attending relocation of thousands of families and businesses in the next few yearscities must guard against creating a new type of displaced person who fruitlessly seeks decent housing in crowded tenement sections of our big cities after a slum site is demolished. the second amendment to the housing act of 1949 being proposed today would help insure against the abrupt cutoff of urban renewal funds when a state with many projects like new york has reached its state limitation of 121/2 percent and must reach into the "extender" fund until new allocations are authorized. the failure of congress to pass a housing act in 1958 necessitated that $39 million of new yorks project requests be met from the existing $100 million "extender" fund. until they could be charged off against new funds made available in 1959. this year. that state again has had to be charged with over $2 million from the fund with more than $57 million in requests pending. increasing the "extender" fund to $200 million would reassure large states like new york. pennsylvania. illis. and california. which need to participate in the urban renewal program extensively and vigorously. that extra funds will be on hand in sufficient amount to look after emergency needs of slum clearance projects in all states. finally. i propose that we make the most of our experience relating to necessary mortgage insurance premium rates for fha housing and permit the administrator to lower this requirement from the present minimum of onehalf of 1 percent to onefourth of 1 percent. under the present title 8 program of military housing. the onefourth of 1 percent rate has been satisfactory. and in single family fha home mortgages. refunds under the higher onehalf of 1 percent rate are frequently justified. it is time we authorized the administrator to extend the lower premium rate to mortgage insurance on multiple and cooperative units. which could result in a substantial reduction in overall building costs and considerable savings to cooperative apartment owners. at present. there are nearly 100.000 multiple rental and cooperative units with more than $900 million in outstanding insured mortgages which would be affected by the proposed reduced premium rate. it is estimated that owners of coop units would realize savings of at least $33 annually. while in cases where the landlord passed along the savings to tenants in multiple units. rents could be reduced about $30 annually. the actuarial costs covered in the premium requirement. which is also used as a reserve against losses. are often much less in large projects where only one or two landlords are involved. through reducing the mortgage insurance requirements. lower construction costs should encourage and stimulate the new type of housing demanded by those families which make up the backbone of big city life.
the public housing program which is asked for here is a very modest one and is consistent with what we have done in this program for some years. i shall  trouble the senate at this time with an analysis of the figures which have been given by the senator from pennsylvania. i shall make two points. when public housing first came on the scene in 1949. i had the privilege. in the house. of handling the taftellenderwagner bill. i had the deep gratification of seeing a sufficient number of my colleagues on the republican side of the aisle vote for the bill. so that it passed the house. let history show that the 23 votes which were garnered at that time from the republican members of the house were absolutely indispensible. and that the bill never would have passed without them. at that time many predictions were made to the effect that public housing would bankrupt the treasury. and computations were made of the astroical number of billions of dollars the program would cost over a period of years. more than a decade has passed. and we find the following: about 37.000 units a year of what is called public housing is just about essential to any kind of balanced housing program. we can do without them. that figure is just about right. it is just about what fits the need. it is the amount required every year in order to maintain a program that will  in any way jeopardize or embarrass the housing situation generally. yet it has been an integral part of every housing project. because it is placed where lowrent families can adequately be settled. in every urban renewal project. it is necessary to take into consideration a fair quotient of lowrent housing. that is absolutely essential in order to make the whole concept of urban renewal compatible. particularly in the large cities. where there are slum problems and a sufficient number of families having below average income. in all the years the opponents have been voting against public housingand they have been able and astute mee has proposed a substitute acceptable to congress. and one has offered a substitute acceptable to the advocates of a balanced housing program. the best the opponents have been able to do over all the years has been to kk down the program. work against it. and vote against it. if they could. there are two essential facts. first. the program has developed into a reasonably modest approach to the problem. it fits very tidily into the budget. second. it is the only way it has been found possible to deal with lowincome families. especially where so many persons have been displaced by urbanrenewal projects. it is a program which is highly desirable in cities and towns in which such renewal projects have taken place. it seems to me this is a modest egh authorization. and that the people who are the lowest on the scale of housing accommodations are entitled at least to this much consideration by congress. that has been a tradition in almost every housing bill which congress has passed. . i hope the amendment will be agreed to.
. the bill is to be reported as a separate bill. in view of the fact that it is a very important housing measure. since middle income housing represents the big gap with respect to housing. i should like to ask the chairman of the subcommittee. who is handling the housing bill. what his intentions are with respect to the middle income housing bill under consideration by the committee on banking and currency.
. i state to the senator that i do  wish to jeopardize the program by offering it as an amendment to the housing bill before the senate. that would  be fair. in view of the confidence vested in the program by the committee. that is the reason i have addressed the question to my colleague. i understand that my colleague will use his best efforts to see that we obtain action on the bill this session.
all of us have heard the expression about a pistol being held to someones head. we  see a pistol being held to the heads of a hundred people. i do  k of anyone who will  agree with us that this is completely inadequate legislation. yet i k of few better friends of housing than the senator from alabama . he is pretty much of a barometer in this field. if he feels it must be doneand both the senator from pennsylvania and i agreethen it ought to be done. it is sad that it must be done this way. i say that for this reason. it is almost inexplicable to me. the stimulation of housing is one of the root bases of american prosperity. why. all the fears that the fha mortgage plan. public housing. and urban renewal housing would become socialized or would become government controlled have been found to be absolute sense. on the contrary. the housing industry is probably as much a private industry as anything in the country. it could  have done the job it did. for its own prosperity and future. without these governmental aids. yet in the final analysis we are completely inhibited and prohibited from doing what is required to promote better housing. the senator from indiana . who is such a valued and extremely important member of the committee on banking and currency. has pointed to many of the other phases of housing legislation which are contained in the senate bill. i think all of us. whatever may be our views concerning individual details. must be deeply disappointed. even disheartened. that the comprehensive housing bill got here. i call particular attention to the fact that in the bill we sent to the other body the fha program was reduced from onehalf to onequarter of 1 percent. an extremely important saving to the small homeowner. i hope this will be impressed upon our colleagues in the house of representatives in terms of what we must do when we return in january. the 121/2 -percent limit on what a state could get for college housing was dealt with in the bill. there were increases in the relocation allowances for families having low incomes. and for the many families in the lowest income groups who were displaced by housing projects. substantial money was provided for state and urban renewal projects. so there has been a real loss. we are experiencing a real reverse in passing this bobtailed housing bill. i think we ought to realize that. i think that message ought to go out to the country. because it will have a major influence in the next campaign. when candidates are asked: "what do you intend to do about housing when congress convenes next year." finally. one of the casualties of this session is the middleincome housing bill. which the senator from pennsylvania and i had the ho to sponsor. in which the committee showed tremendous confidence. based upon what we have presented in the report. the distinguished senator from alabama gave fine leadership to the measure. and the senator from indiana gave us help. based upon the pattern which we had established and approved in new york in the socalled mitchellarmour program. of providing lowinterest credit to cooperatives and other reducedrental projects. especially for middleincome families. i should like to ask the senator from alabama what might be his intention concerning that phase of the program when we return in january. in view of the fact that it is falling by the wayside. although it was reported by the committee.
. i ice with great interest that some question may be raised by certain of our very distinguished colleagues about the confirmation of the appointment of dr. robert weaver. of new york. as housing and home finance administrator. this is an extremely important appointment. and i happen to k dr. weaver and to have worked with him in new york. also as he is a democratic appointee and both new york senators are republicans. i think. therefore. it would be appropriate for a fellow new yorker to speak about his record. his record in the field of housing is one of long experience and great accomplishment. and i think we must regard this in all fairness as one of those appointments which. though we on the miity side will look quite properly with the greatest care and the greatest scrupulousness upon each appointment. it must be considered as an appointment which is in real essence a high caliber appointment in this particular field. dr. weaver is vice chairman of the new york city housing redevelopment board. previously he served as new york state rent administrator. before that he served as deputy commissioner of housing for new york. as head of the hhfa he would be overseeing and directing the operations of agencies dealing with federal housing. urban renewal. public housing. community facilities. and the federal national mortgage association. dr. weaver is already thoroughly familiar with many of these activities. because there is state in the nation with more active federal housing programs than new york. it is also pertinent to e that both the democratic and republican platforms have pledged us that there will be an elimination of discrimination in housing. so the fact that dr. weaver has been active in the naacp. an organization with which he has been long associated. should  be considered as a disqualification. but rather as an added qualification. for the post to which he has been named. i speak entirely as a new yorker. and one who ks dr. weaver. and. therefore. as one who has a right to testify as to his character and competence. without regard to the fact that other senators may raise certain questions. which they have a right to raise. as bearing upon his confirmation. but i think it is only fair that the record should show his experience and his high character as we k it in new york. i ask unanimous consent that there may be included as a part of my remarks an article on his background appearing in the new york times headed "a genial intellectualrobert clifton weaver."
. i wish to say a word about the appointment of james b. cash. jr.. staff director of the housing subcommittee of the banking and currency committee. to be deputy commissioner of the public housing administration. and about milton p. semer. of the banking and currency committee staff. to be general counsel of the housing and home finance agency. i wish to express my pleasure and gratification at their receiving these high appointments. and to congratulate them and to confirm to the senate what has been confirmed by so many senators with respect to the outstandingly fine service and distinguished character and patriotism of these two men.
. this has all taken place since 1955. so we have for consideration a very current. extraordinary record of performance made by the very program which i present as an alternative to the one provided for in the bill. this record has been made in the state of new york. both on the state level and on the city level. over 30.000 unitsand this is to be found at page 78 of the committee reporthave either built or are in the process of construction in the city of new york and in the state of new york. and approximately $425 million in mortgage funds has been committed. in other words. those bonds have been floated and have been bought by the public. otherwise. the money would  be available. the emous difference is that if the administrations program had been tried. for the same 30.000 units. it would have required $427 millionthe amount of mortgage money involved in the new york programfor fnma. whereas my proposal will require only the "seed" money of $100 million. with which the federal government will get a limiteddividend housing corporation started. and will get back its money just as soon as the enterprise accumulates a sufficient reserve. it will do that fairly quickly. because it will charge onehalf of 1 percent for exactly that purpose. in connection with its operation. so the difference is the difference between a program which the administration frankly labels experimental and a program which has been tried and has been found extremely satisfactory and successful in a great state which has every conceivable housing condition which can be found in the entire nation. because new york is truly the empire state. and this kind of construction has taken place both in new york city and in smaller cities in new york. and all have been very successfuland also at a small proportion of the cost of the plan proposed by the administration. because it is a 40year. ownpayment plan. at the same time. our program avoids the problems and the issues which arise in connection with the 40year. ownpayment plan. because of the fact that it is felt very strongly by many members of the senate that to have downpayment would be very unwise and would jeopardize the security of the enterprise itself. finallyand this is very importantunder my plan there will be very representative and very responsible entities which will promote this type of housing.
i realize that. the question is. how would it work. it would work in a relationship. first. directly between a federal corporation and individual promoters. it is conceivable that a trade union. or an employer such as a large aircraft company or meatpacker. would find it a convenient way to develop housing. after which it would sell the housing to its employees. as i have said. trade unions have done it. it is conceivable that masons organizations. elks lodges. or other organizations which would have the initiative to use their organizations for this purpose to get the program off the ground would do so. second. my amendment provides that a state may also set up such an entity which will actually be the channel through which this kind of enterprise may get started in the state. the promoter dealing with the state agency. which in turn deals with the federal government. i have little doubt that benefits would come from such an arrangement in new york state. withstanding the fact that we have an active and working program. our state housing agency would make contact with the appropriate federal housing office to develop this kind of program. there are a number of peripheral benefits which strongly commend themselves and which have been sharply brought out by our colloquy. instead of the untried 40year. ownpayment plan. here is a proposal which offers benefits in a feasible plan. i reserve the remainder of my time
 at all. these are words of art. adapted from the public housing law. which provides for exactly the same situation. in answer to a question which has been asked. this is an incidental aspect of the plan. it is similar to action which the senate has taken on a number of previous occasions. i should like to key senators to the occasions when the senate itself originated legislation of precisely this character with respect to the very limited exemption which is related here. those cases relate to the federal land banks. the federal intermediate credit banks. under the federal farm loan act. the federal home loan bank. the federal deposit insurance corporation. the reconstruction finance corporation. and the public housing administration itself. in all those cases. the senate acted precisely as i am asking the senate to act in this matter. on a bill which was  a revenue raising bill. and did  have any of the conations which we would run into if this were the central core of a plan. it is hing but one peripheral aspect of it.
i point out again. as i did a moment ago. that in both cases. when we reach the element of the bill which deals with the moderate income housing plan. precisely the same situation exists. one must deal with a central sponsor who will. in turn cooperate with the individual owneroccupant. this is actually what happens in new york. it is actually provided. by the amendment which i have offered. and it is precisely a pattern of the way this plan works. the individual sponsor has in many cases actually cooperated with the apartment house by letting each individual tenant own his own apartment. that is entirely feasible. the only purpose the sponsor has served is to be the recipient of the mortgage money and to be the constructor of the project. this also leads to one other very important point. under my plan. once the corporation is financed. it stands on its own bottom. it can be as big as the investors will back. it requires federal subsidy. which is a limitation in the public housing program. it can go on and grow. depending on the confidence and the substantiality of its operation. so it has a very fine private ecoic system tiein.
yes. and i am glad the senator from maine has emphasized that point. because it points up an important matter. i can understand the great opposition to the 40year proposal. whereas i can see why there would be approval of the 50year plan. because under the 40year plan there would  be a leaning of project on project. whereas under my plan there would be. under my plan there would be a mutualization of risk. for instance. let us assume that the entire amount would be utilized for projects handled by a single borrower. so far as the handling of the bonds was concerned. in that event. if there were "in the deck" a weak project. it would be supported by the others. whereas under the 40year arrangement. each project would stand on its own feet. and in that event the entire picture would be weaker. i do  favor the argument. which has been made here. that in 40 years the houses would collapse. after all. in new york there are many excellent apartment houses which are 30. 35. or 40 years of age. and still are in excellent condition. for instance. the one in which i live is a very fine apartment house on the best street in new york. and it is 35 or 40 years old. in view of what i paid for it. i have every expectation that it will last aher 35 or 40 years.
i should like to point out. first. as one coming from a state which probably uses the largest amount of public housing authorizations. that public housing authorizations are absolutely essential to slum clearance and the intelligent use of urban renewal. because they are attributable to the need for a balanced housing program. in new york. where we have probably used urban renewal more than has any other area of the country. the program would be impossible without the balancing feature of public housing. the basic reason for allowing this authorization to be made  is that it would give the agency an opportunity to really let people plan. otherwise. with 37.000 units in a particular year. the agency would be almost in the position of trying to sell the units before the time limit expires. whereas on this basis. it could engage in orderly planning. the amazing thing is that businessmen would never dream of operating under these conditions. and yet those who want to impose these conditions are the first ones to say we ought to have businesslike methods in government.
. we are trying to change the definition which relates to the areas eligible for direct loans to veterans for mortgage purposesto change it from the limitation  imposed. which restricts it to any rural area or small city or town. we wish to make it applicable to any area as to which the administrator finds that private capital is  generally available. the difference is that heretofore we have confined the direct loan program for veterans to the rural areas or the small cities and towns. and we have  extended it to any area in which there is truly a housing credit shortage. the reason for that was that this type of mortgage credit for veterans administration loans was formerly available in metropolitan areas. but that reason has since disappeared. this type of credit is longer available in many such areas. hence. there is longer a reason for such discrimination against such metropolitan areas. so the matter is just that simple. i happen to have received from new york. from veterans there. a letter and a telegram giving evidence. in a personal way. of inability to find mortgage money for va loans. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. in addition. a table of home loans guaranteed by the veterans administration shows the sensational diminution of the veterans home loans which have been placed in very large cities. for instance. in three new york cities. the drop has been as follows: in buffalo. 90 percent. in other words. from the time when the program commenced until the present time. the veterans home loan ratio there has dropped 90 percent. in new york city. the drop has been 70 percentthat much drop in the largest financial center in the world. in rochester. n.y.. the drop has been 80 percent. in short. this type of mortgage money has tended to disappear from the large metropolitan areas. as it did some time ago from the small cities. towns. and rural areas. neither the senator from illis  i can see why this discrimination should continue and why the veterans in large metropolitan areas should  have the same opportunities. in view of the fact that they  face the same situation as that faced by veterans in the rural areas and in the smaller cities and towns. one objection which has been raised to our approach has been that it might result in applying the direct loan idea to an entire metropolitan area. but we do  believe that the language we have submitted is in any way susceptible of that interpretation. if there is any question about it. i state. and the senator from illis will state. as the proponents of the amendment. that we do  intend this amendment to mean that the administrator will  have complete power to designate an area or any part of an area a housing credit shortage area within the terms of the law. as we all k. there are in the large metropolitan areas emous numbers of veteransfar more than in the rural areas or the small cities and towns. yet they are really disfranchised. in terms of being able to obtain veterans home loans. therefore. we believe that in all fairness the time has come to put all these veterans on the same level. in view of the fact that they face the same conditions. finally. i point out that in the bill we are making a very extensive provision for precisely this type of loan. and we provide for phasing out the program over a long period of years. and we provide $1.200 million for making such loans. this is an appropriate time to establish equal opportunity for all veterans. regardless of where they may be located. particularly. in view of the fact that they face the same conditions. and also in view of the fact that the administrator would have complete power to designate any area or any part of an area a housing credit shortage area.
. in conclusion i should like to point out that the provision we are  trying to have included in the bill is already incorporated in a bill passed by the house of representatives. it is in house bill 5723. which the house passed in april. the bill is entitled "a bill to provide home loans for veterans in housing credit shortage areas." the house of representatives has already passed that bill. and in that way has done precisely what we propose to do by means of this amendment. therefore. there should be problem as regards the views of the other body. i  read from the report of the house veterans affairs committee on that measure. which already has been passed by the house: for veterans living in our semiurban areas. because veterans home loans in our cities are almost existent today. the house committee found that as a fact. and that is the basis for the presentation made here by the senator from illis and myself.
i think the administration has missed one point. and that is that it could apply the rule of selectivity in determining whether a part. rather than the whole. of a metropolitan area was in a housing credit shortage area. but even if we grant the administrations whole position it does  attempt to begin to justify the discrimination. in other words. is the discrimination removed by the fact that the administration says many people would be affected. it seems to me it only emphasizes the fact that we are discriminating against many people. that we are being unfair.  to a few veterans. but to hundreds of thousands of veterans. this is the point the senator from illis and i are arguing. this is something for which veterans stand in line. why should city people be excluded when the only basis has been that they could take care of themselves. and that is longer true. if there is to be a veterans home loan i program. and if there is to be a direct loan program. by what law of the medes and the persians is it to be applied only to veterans who live in small towns.
. it is an imposition upon senators to detain them at this hour. but this question is important. this is about the only opportunity i have seen in years for a large group of families in the country to get anywhere. if we are to do what the senator from connecticut chooses to do with respect to the bill. we can forget about its having any effect whatever upon moderateincome families. the only hope for moderateincome families is a low interest rate. we have a part of that plan in new york. the senate did  see fit to accept my amendment. i think perhaps the senate may be a little sorry tonight that it did  do so. because it was a much more practical scheme than anything we are fooling with . but be that as it may. the bill still preserves the only principle upon which we can operate with respect to a moderateincome familya lowinterest rate. i see very little opportunity for doing anything else except exactly what the senator from alabama proposes. and i think undoubtedly it will be refined in conference. what i have to say goes for every senator who comes from a state with a heavy concentration of population. we are really almost dutybound to those families. for whom hing has been done in housing legislation for years. to seize this one opportunity to do something for them. i very much hope that all the amendments will be voted down and that the main point will be voted up. that is the only way i can see to get on with the central point which must be established.
madam president. in view of the fact that this is a large bill. one of the largest. i think. that has ever been passed in the housing field. and there is some question about the extent of support which it will have on this side of the aisle. and in view of the fact that i intend to support the bill. i think it proper to state my reasons. i believe the bill should be passed. for three reasons. first. except probably for civil rights. it represents. in my view. one of the greatest affirmations of the ability of our internal institutions. in terms of the cold war. upon which we have the opportunity to vote. the fundamental difference which everyone finds between the communist system and our system invariably boils down. in practical terms of daytoday living. to housing. where we have a tremendous force for good. but the communists have  been able to handle that problem. madam president. it is  insignificant- and i take into consideration the very important points made by the senator from illisthat homeownership in the united states is  in the hands of approximately 60 percent of the american peoplea great increase since world war ii. this is a most important fact. and is one of the most critical things i k of in connection with our work for freedom. second. the entire fha system. which this bill buttresses. constitutes one of the most important factors in connection with our work for freedom. for the reasons pointed out. private efforts in connection with this industry can stand alone. the private building industry might be able to take care of twothirds of the homes needed. or a little more. but the difference between that amount and the 1.250.000 a year is essential to the growth of our society. and that is provided for in the pending bill. and is indispensable. i believe the entire fha system is an intelligent way to weld government credit into the private industry activities. and needs to be supported. third. madam president. the bill is  inflationary. because anyone who has run a business ks that what counts is  only what one owes. but also what one has. our government owes $300 billion. in round figures. but we also have an emously rich country. worth at the very least $800 billion. and perhaps a trillion dollars. or perhaps even more. when homes are built. they add to the assets and resources of the country. and this bill will add many fold to the number of houses. because individual owners will develop their homes. will embelish them. will furnish them. will use them. will add automobiles to them. and will have greater incentive to work harder. and thus will add to the wealth of the country. so. madam president. for all these reasonswithstanding my unhappiness and my dissatisfaction over the fact that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle have again. i believeand i say this advisedlyfor more partisan reasons than they had any right to. foregone the best middleincome housing provision. and i hope and believe that as time passes they will come to the conclusion that the way to handle best the middleincome housing is the way we have urged.  the 40year basisi shall vote for the bill anyway. because i believe that in a situation of this sort it is essential. madam president. i am very grateful to the senator from indiana for allowing to remain in the bill the provision which gives the administrator the right to reduce the charge for the fha program from onehalf of 1 percent to onefourth of 1 percent. this provision has within it the seeds of emous saving. and it can be of great benefit in confirming the fact that the fha has been profitable and has accumulated large reserves. which should be passed on to the consumers. i am also very grateful to the senator from indiana for  pressing for the adoption of an amendment which might very well have changed that part of the bill.
i read only part of that paragraph of the presidents message. at this time i should like to read that entire section of the message. and then the senator will understand my point. i  read from page 6 of the presidents message: more specific and urgent. however. are the problems of families displaced by new highway construction. as more and more rightofways are acquired and construction begins. tens of thousands of families are required to move from their path and find new places to livemore persons displaced. it has been estimated. than are displaced by all our urban renewal and slum clearance programs combined. for many families of modest income. especially those displaced by expressways in congested urban areas. adequate housing is often difficult. if  impossible. to locate at prices or rents which they can afford. or in places reasonably convenient to their jobs. as a result. many are compelled to accept substandard accommodations. others. by overcrowding otherwise adequate housing help to create new slums. those already in substandard housingcrowded into a tenement in the path of a new expressway. for exampleare hard put to find any housing at all. yet are given help or priority by existing federal housing programs. to date this serious problem has been largely overlooked. neither the federal government  the state highway departments have assumed any positive or explicit responsibility for meeting these needs. in contrast. the federal urban renewal law. enacted in 1949. requires that every contract for federal assistance include provisions assuring the availability of decent. safe. and sanitary housing at prices they can afford and in suitable locations for all families displaced by urban renewal projects. i urge that the federal highway law be amended to require similar assurances of help in finding reasonable housing at reasonable costs for all those displaced from their homes by future federalaid highway projects. as a practical matter. we actually have included in the urban renewal law a provision for paying the cost of relocating. and we set upper limits of $200 per family and $3.000 per small business. we have done that for a very considerable time. my estimate of $60 for relocating a family is based upon experience under the urban renewal program.
we tried to get it done in the housing program. and we got here. if the committee tells us it should be dealt with under the heading of housing. then we will have a clear path for seeking relief. but if the senator merely says the house was adamant. that does  get us anywhere. here is an injustice for which there is relief as matters stand . unless we create some relief.
first. let me say that i shall support the conference report. although i look with great regret--and i think all of us will have cause to regret iton the fact that the conference report does  include a middleincome housing program which would  require the federal costs which are called for by this report. i think that is a shame. but i am so very much in favor of a middleincome housing program that. withstanding that deficiency of the report. i shall vote for it. but i deprecate that deficiency very greatly. as i have already said. i think those who favor. and who voted for. the new york plan. which i had the ho to present here in the senate. will live to regret its omission. it would work as an ecoic balance system which would give the program validity and viability. i k my friend. who is so gracious. will  find fault with that. it typifies what we ought to be doing. we ought to be bringing forth programs heavily based on the private enterprise system. and yet doing the job which the social needs of our country require to be done. it is in that spirit that i brought my proposal forward. i say to my colleague what he would say to me. i hope his mind is  closed on it. he told me as much. he said. "you have to work on these things a long time." king the amount for fnma has been doubled. to a billion and a half dollars. i must say i am depressed that we have chosen the least desirable road and the most expensive road. when we could have done the job with $100 million. as i had proposed.
i will vote in exactly the opposite way. but i join the senator from kentucky completely in the statement he has made. i will vote in exactly the opposite way because i am one of the architects of this bill. and i believe that housing is essential to the country. and. therefore. does  represent a reduction in our assets. but i wish to join in the injunction to senators on the other side. they can carry this on indefinitely. and there are measures against which i. too. will vote. senators on the other side can pile expenditures on expenditures on expenditures. in the present grave situation. without regard to the exigencies we  face. so i wish to join the senator from kentucky in that injunction.
madam president. one of the greatest domestic challenges facing our nation today is in our ability to solve the myriad problems of our urbansuburban centers. an adequate response to the necessities of life in our cities is contingent upon the institution of an effective housing program. such a program must meet the demands of slum clearance. urban renewal. suburban sprawl and. most important. it must solve the middleincome housing enigma. one of the greatest paradoxes of our nation is the existence of our unprecedented prosperity with an unprecedented shortage of homes for moderateincome families. the crisis precipitated by the reluctant flight of many families from cities to the suburbs because of the lack of decent urban housing is related to some of the basic problems of the modern metropolis. the steady retreat of moderateincome jobholders from our cities has had a serious effect on the labor supply available for our commercial and industrial enterprises. it has compounded the difficulties plaguing our transportation and commuter complex. the lack of adequate middleincome housing has intensified our crime problem. particularly among juveniles. this increases the burden on overworked social. welfare. police and education departments. a rise in the crime rate also heightens the middleincome exodus from our cities which. in turn. forces our municipal governments to face a decrease in income derived from real estate. the source of 45 percent to 50 percent of their total revenue. these are only a few of the problems which are corollaries to the omis shortage of middleincome housing. the recently passed housing bill represents a major step toward the solution of these grave national problems. it contains a number of sorely needed inations and improvements. however. it fails to deal with many of the fundamental causes of the housing situation. the major questions of slum clearance. of code revision. of land costs. of tax abatement. and of financing are still before us. most important. the provisions adopted in regard to moderateincome housing fail to meet the needs of our people. i have contended that government funds and existing federal administrative machinery can alone cope with these problems. so great are the demands that all available resources must be utilized. an adequate program must incorporate and marshal the strength of our private enterprise system. my amendment to the housing bill. which would have created a federal limited profit corporation. could have insured the support of private enterprise for the middle income housing program. this proposal would have provided lowinterest loans for profit or limited profit rental and cooperative housing. closely paralleling the existing mitchelllama program in new york state. though the housing bill was a major step. i would like to take this opportunity to state that i consider it only the first step toward the solution of the housing problem. i shall continue to explore new proposals and to fight for new measures which i believe are necessary. consequently. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point an open letter to the president which appeared in the april issue of house & home magazine and which contains some salient criticisms of the administrations program. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed a copy of a letter which i have received from mr. robert c. weaver. administrator of the housing and home finance agency. in reply to the contentions of the editors of house & home.
. the figures of 1920 which are the basis for wealth of a nation  only lies in its natural resources but upon the talents of its people. our greatness as a nation has been founded on the abilities of the worlds homeless and oppressed who came to our shores seeking refuge. today. our immigration laws stand in opposition to the rich tradition of opportunity for all which gave our country strength. because we have failed to reconstruct our discriminatory and outdated laws. we are denying our responsibility as the leader in the worlds struggle for peace. the immigration proposals which i have sponsored with senator keating recognize the fact of life that we are living under a 1960 census.  the outdated quota system. this provision and that providing for the reallocation of unused quotas to oversubscribed countries would certainly help to improve the unjust. inequitable. and hopelessly archaic national origins quota system. progress in this area is the most urgently needed revision. if we continue to fail to modernize our immigration policy we will negate our own best interests in foreign affairs as well as our own domestic. ecoic. and social wellbeing. the homeless cry out to us in the name of justice and humanity. we can turn a deaf ear to their pleas. the american committee on italian migration.  celebrating its 10th anniversary. has prepared a statement illustrating many of the inadequacies in the present immigration structure. i ask unanimous consent that this statement be printed in the record.
madam president. it is essential that the program be continued under which certain alien orphans adopted by u.s. citizens are allowed to enter the country under special quota immigrant visas. that is why i am supporting s. 2237. this program was also a great concern of our former colleague from new york. senator irving ives. who joined with me before my present colleague became a member of the senate in his place. and also worked hard on this matter. the alien orphans program was begun more than 12 years ago as part of the displaced persons act of 1948. it was extended in 1953 and in subsequent years. while this program has enriched the lives of thousands of childless american families and brought happiness and a chance for a happy life to the 17.000 homeless waifs they have adopted under this program. much unnecessary hardship. delay. grief. and frustration has accompanied the process of admission to the united states. i have introduced legislation to correct the abuses which have developed in the course of the program to eliminate the danger of commercialism in proxy adoptions. and set standards for children adopted abroad cvii990 equal to those which prevail here. but until the congress can act on such legislation we must continue the present program on a temporary basis. i point out that i still retain the point which i have constantly made in the senate that. to get any immigration bill that is worthy of the name. i shall seek to attach to it by way of amendment all the modernization of integration laws which was sponsored in the previous administration. and which is represented in the bill which i. together with my colleague . have introduced on this subject.
the president is complaining about himself. as i see it. he has as much an obligation to examine his own performance. both in the executive department and in his leadership of his party. as he has a right to examine the performance of congress. particularly in view of the fact that this is  the first session of the congress. but the second session. when we shall be leaving earlier this year than we did in the first session. and when things should be humming right . finally. i call attention to the fact that even that famous strokeofthepen order to eliminate discrimination in housing has  been issued by the president of the united states. in short. i ask the president to take a good look at his own establishment. his own leadership. his own party which preponderates in both houses of congress. and then to account to the country as to whether he is moving with "all deliberate speed." to use the supreme courts phrase. on the various questions which are crying for decision in our nation.
i am glad to join with my colleague from new york in this request. i am completely familiar with the area. as is senator heating. it is my distinct feeling that the housing granted by the house was deserved. i. too. should like to join in the inquiry and ascertain the committees reasoning and ideas
the u.s. civil rights commission said: federal programs. federal benefits. federal resources have been widely. if indirectly. used in a discriminatory mannerand the federal government has done virtually hing to prevent it. when dr. robert c. weaver was appointed housing and home finance administrator. hopes ran high that such an order would be made. recently it has been said the order has been delayed because of the impact it might have on the ecoy and on the housing construction industry. a study submitted to the president by the national committee against discrimination in housing. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks. shows that this is  a proper objection. and that a fair housing order is  only morally right. but feasible as well.
the experience of states like my own state of new york. the state of new jersey. and cities like new york city. where there are  fair housing laws. bears this out. in conclusion. at a time when american democracy is being tested by the communist challenge among the developing nations of africa and asia. when twothirds of the people of the world are yellow or black. the united states must use every opportunity to truly commemorate the 100th anniversary of the emancipation proclamation by action. i k of single act which the president could take which would more clearly refute the charges made against our country. and the concerns expressed within our country with respect to equal opportunity and with respect to our determination to proceedwhether it be in mississippi. or georgia. or throughout the nationwith an even hand in giving our people their sacred constitutional rights. than the issuance of an executive order eliminating discrimination in housing. i urge the president to do that on the 100th anniversary of the emancipation proclamation.
 kennedy from  of the commission on race and housing which issued a report in 1958 calling for an end to desegregation in housing. the bowery savings bank. which he heads. is the largest mutual savings bank in the united states. its assets exceed $1.8 billion and its investment portfolio includes almost 100.000 home mortgages totaling about $1.4 billion.
would it be fair. then. to say that a beginning has been made. for this i am grateful. the people concerned will be pleased that it is actually happening. i am sure the senator would agree with me that if it were found. as we did in the housing program. that the limits work out unjustly. at least we can get an audience and a hearing if we seek to improve the limits.
i thank the senator. my aim would be to make the assistance for relocation under the bill consistent with the relocation provisions under the housing act for the removal of families and small businesses. such people can see any reason why they should be treated differently when roads are involved than when housing is involved.
i point out to the senator the magic of that little word "average." what we were doing in the housing program was to take care of those unfortunates for whom the average would have been a gross injustice. i appreciate the senators remarks. we will proceed accordingly. i am delighted that perhaps my testimony had some little effect in getting that appropriation in the bill.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend title i of the housing act of 1949 to increase the maximum amount of relocation payments made to commercial tenants displaced by urban renewal projects. i hope that the agencies involved will begin their study and evaluation of this proposal before the beginning of the next congress. the bill deals with a major problem in urban renewal which has remained unresolved since its inception. compensation for the loss of good will built up by small businessmen over years in one location. under the bill. payment would be equal to onehalf the average annual net taxable income realized from the operation of the business during 3 years prior to the date of displacement. two limitations are imposed upon such payments: first. the business concern must have been continuously located in the urban renewal area for 3 consecutive years prior to being displaced. and. second. payment may exceed $7.500. relocation assistance has been a part of the urban renewal program since 1956 in a form which compensates business tenants for such costs as moving expenses and fixtures which are lost. my amendment to the 1961 housing act resuted in removing the maximum limitation of $3.000 upon such costs. which was too low. i am most gratified that as of yesterday. as a provision of the highway act of 1962. a comparable provision for tenant relocation for both individual and commercial tenants. the result of a long campaign on my part. was accepted by both houses of congress. however. a vital problem remains for many small businesses. particularly retail establishments. whose moving expenses may be very low but whose very continued existence is dependent on reestablishing good will which the long conduct of business in one place builds up. hence my bill. during the past year the wall street journal and the new york times both discussed this problem very effectively. i ask unanimous consent that the articles be printed in the record in full at this point in my remarks.
as the senator ks. i favor the bill. i have fought to help to bring it out of committee. i must say that i am  very happy about the punitive aspects of the bill. as the senator has said. "thereafter. the administrator shall  extend any assistance" under the act "to finance in whole or in part" such projects. i think that is entirely justifiable. i would be with the senator on that point. but i must say that the idea of extending the ambit of punishment to the laws with respect to housing and community facilities and other matters is a little unusual. under our law. i think it places a strain upon the bill which is really more than it ought to bear. for instance. on the next page of the bill. there is provided a possibility to qualify for additional grants after 3 years. that is the kind of thing i would want to cut off. but i am very much concerned about extending the ambit of this power to other laws because they happen to be administered by the housing and home finance agency. we might just as well include any other administrator. they are all under the same federal government. can the senator tell us what was the rationale in extending the provision and going so far afield .
i would appreciate it if the senator in charge of the bill would hear me on this point. i ask him to consider the following proposed amendment: thereafter. the administrator may in his discretion refuse to extend any assistance under this or any other law administered by the housing and home finance agenci (except pursuant to a commitment entered into prior to such ice) to finance in whole or n part any project to further the purposes of this act to be undertaken in such areai should like to explain very briefly my reason for that proposal. what i am seeking to do is to limit the discretion of the administrator to housing or any other project which has a relationship to the development of the mass transportation system. that is  a light matter. because a great portion of community facilities. housing. and so forth. could very well be tied in with the effort to create a viable mass transportation system. my aim would then be to give him the maximum latitude possible consistent with what he has a right to do. that is. with the assistance which is contemplated under his act. to leave it so that an administrator could select a lowcost housing project perhaps 10 miles away. and say. "i am going to deny funds to that project because of the rate schedule." would offend my sense of the balance of statutory law and the kind of authority that we want to have administered. i make that suggestion only because the senator invited me to see what i could suggest.
i believe the amendment would confine the authority which would be given to the housing and home finance administrator and would further the purposes of the act. the act has a rather limited life. projects under it similarly have a limited life. therefore it would meet the valid objection that power in perpetuity should  be granted. i think it is an effort to give some sanction. without giving a sanction which is out of reason.
parallel with what the senator from michigan has said. i. too. am addressing the various government departments upon this subject in order to ascertain why they are administering the law and making grants through their departments in mississippi and elsewhere. withstanding violations of the constitution. as has just been so eloquently discussed. for years i have attempted to amend appropriation bills on the floor of the senate to deny the use of federal funds for discriminatory use. on the same theory adverted to by the commission report: funds contributed by citizens of all states. and i would add. of all shades of color. should  under the constitution be restricted to citizens of only one color. as far back as its 1959 report the commission found that discrimination could validly be required as a condition of the receipt of federal aid. and in connection with the field of housing. it found that this could be done either by congress or by the president by executive order. again in its comprehensive 1961 reports the commission repeated this principle. stating that "federal financial support should be withheld from programs which are so administered as to discriminate on racial grounds." the legal authority for this principle is clear beyond reasonable doubt. i ask unanimous consent that at this point in my remarks there be printed in the record a fine analysis of the legal basis for the executive order on housing which is relevant here. prepared by the new york county lawyers associations committee on civil rights. the committee recommends. it should also be ed. that the order be amended to cover all public housing. urban renewal projects. and other housing programs to which federal grants are made. irrespective of when the commitments for their construction were made. subsequent sale or lease of property covered by fha or va insurance. and mortgage loans by federally supervised mortgage lending institutions.
in response to the question of the senator from california i would say that we have actually organized the atlantic community development group for latin america. it has been financed. it is enthusiastically backed by all elements of the ecoy in western europe. the united states. and latin america. we are at work on drafting a plan under which this kind of investment from europe. in association with the united states and latin america. may be forthcoming. we have a target of a billion dollars a year. as i said a moment ago. i k it can be done. the only question is whether we can do it. i k it can be done.
. i am pleased to call the senates attention to the signing on april 22 by the gover of new york. nelson a. rockefeller. of two measures maintaining new yorks place in the forefront of the states in the field of civil rights. one broadens the new york law against discrimination in housing. which previously covered the sale or rental of housing accommodations in multiple dwellings and in developments of 10 or more houses on contiguous land. it also barred discrimination by real estate brokers with respect to housing covered by the law. the new measure prohibits discrimination in the sale or rental of any housing accommodation. except rentals in an owneroccupied one- or twofamily home. and it also extends to all housing the provision relating to real estate brokers. a second bill signed by the gover makes it an unlawful discriminatory practice to retaliate against any person because he has opposed any discriminatory practice or because he has filed a complaint. testified. or assisted in any proceeding before the state commission for human rights. the first law against discrimination in new york in 1945 made such retaliation unlawful in all cases involving discrimination in employment. this measure brings the rule against retaliation into step with the many other constructive advances made in the state since that time toward eliminating racial discrimination in issues cognizable under the state constitution. it should also be ed that the city of new york is this month celebrating the fifth anniversary of the enactment of its fair housing practices law. these are indeed auspicious steps in the continual effort being made in new york state and in many other states to achieve the goals which we proclaim in the constitution of the united states for all our citizens and hold out to the world in the hope of emulation of our way of life. what is needed is a comparable effort at the federal level to obtain meaningful civil rights legislation in the congress. i am proud to say that new york state practices what it preaches through its two senators. and that it remains in the forefront of those who wish to guarantee equal rights to every citizen in all areas in which civil rights are concerned. without regard to race. color. or creed.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the biographies of the appointees and a statement of the objectives and structure of the atlantic community development group for latin america.
madam president. in my view. this request by the president is unnecessary as a matter of law since the executive already has such power. in fact. i believe that the executive already has a duty in this regarda mandatory requirement under the powers of the president in article 2. section 3. which gives the president responsibility to see that the laws are enforced. and under the 5th amendment and the 14th amendment. which impose upon both the federal government and the states the responsibility for affording equal protection of the laws to all u.s. citizens. under those three sections of the constitutionarticle 2. section 3. the 5th amendment. and the 14th amendmentthe president has such authority. the president has long been urged to take action to cut off aid to state and municipal programs with respect to which discrimination and segregation have been practiced. in august 1961 the leadership conference on civil rights submitted to the president a carefully documented memorandum entitled "federally supported discrimination." which detailed the facts about segregation and discrimination in federallyaided programs in military affairs. education. employment. housing. health services. and agriculture. and called for an executive order ending federal support of such practices. the memorandum also cited legal authority and precedents for such an order. which were more than ample. including executive orders by presidents roosevelt. truman. and eisenhower barring discrimination in various fields. the president has  issued such an order. although the memorandum specifically referred to the 1960 democratic platform pledges of executive action. i call attention to page 8 of that memorandum. which reads as follows: the democratic party platform pledged executive action to achieve "equal employment opportunities throughout the federal establishment and on all government contracts." "the termination of racial segregation throughout federal services and institutions." "an end to discrimination in federal housing programs. including federally assisted housing." instead of hoing those pledges. almost 2 years after taking office the president issued a limited executive order against discrimination in federal housing and he is  broadening the federal contract order to cover federally aided construction. as to the federally aided housing. i shall refer to an answer to my inquiries from the housing and home finance agency. which very clearly shows that in view of the limitation of applicability of the order to new housing. hing appreciable has yet happened. but there is hope that it will happen as new housing comes into use. both of these ordersthat is. the one on housing and the one on discrimination in government contracts with relation to federallyaided constructionadded further precedents for the broadscale executive action which the.memorandum called for. the clear legal authority for such action. even in the absence of legislative direction. was again supported unanimously during a hearing held on may 17. 1963 by the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. by legal authorities. including a panel of southern law school professors and the united states civil rights commission. this was also the meaning and intent of the commissions april recommendation to the president in regard to the flagrant denial by the state of mississippi of rights granted to citizens there under the constitution of the united states. in my view. there are four ways to insure that all state and local programs supported with federal funds shall be administered without regard to race or color. two of those four ways can be accomplished by the executive alone. and two by congress. first. the president can issue an acrosstheboard executive order banning the use of federal funds for programs in which discrimination or segregation on racial grounds is practiced. second. each of the executive departments and agencies can. even without executive order. refuse to disburse funds for such use. which is in effect what the u.s. civil rights commission called for in the mississippi case and in their recent testimony before the subcommittee on education. third. congress can specify in each program authorization and in each appropriation bill that funds shall  be used for such purposes. i have repeatedly offered such amendments. and in each case my amendments have been tabled on motion of the leadership. so that does  seem to be a route congress wishes to travel. fourth. congress can enact an acrosstheboard prohibition against the discriminatory use of funds. as the senior senator from oregon recommends in the bill he introduced on june 4. and as the president recommends in the omnibus civil rights bill. in discretionary rather than the mandatory form. certainly congress has a grave responsibility in the field of civil rights which it has greviously failed to fulfill. i am pleased that the president has finally come around to this view. i was one of the first to pledge my full support for the prompt enactment of the measures he has proposed. but i believe this one aspect of his request for legislationthat is. discretionary authority to cut off federal aid to existing state or local programs engaged in segregation or discriminationpostpones too long the results which can be achieved immediately. without legislation. the prospects for civil rights legislation and the cloture vote hurdle in the senate are difficult egh without adding to them the burden of enacting a provision which is unnecessary. at least in the form in which it is proposed. i have made a determined effort to ascertain whether the executive branch itself believes it is necessary to have such a law. i take the floor today to make kn the results. so far. of my inquiry. i believe the results of that inquiry will enable congress to tailor the legislation to the specific need to which the executive branch testifies. so that immediate progress will  be deferred in areas in which legislation is considered necessary. even by the executive branch itself. i have already made clear the implications of time in this whole situation and. therefore. the urgent reason why we should  let time get away from us . in the same respect. i have had called to my attention statements made by the distinguished senior senator from georgia [. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to the commerce department and its reply be printed in full in the rscord at this point in my remarks.
first. there is a distinction between what i am trying to do with respect to this bill and what i have tried to do in connection with other programs. s such as the youth employment and l mental health programs. and others. it ) is necessary to offer this amendment. ) and i have so drawn it in this particular instance. in order to give authority to e the hew to do what it is doing for children who live on the base. namely. build r schools and otherwise provide for their schooling. this is affirmative action. t  merely the negative action of withholding the funds. although i believe the withholding of funds could just as v effectively accomplish the purpose. i - do  believe schools are going to pert sist in their practices if important elements of support are withheld from a them. etheless. if this amendment t should be adopted in this case. it would i allow the hew to do what it is actually c doing for the children on base. this e amendment would correct a very serious d discrimination within the federal estabn lishment. d children who live on base fare differ.t ently from children who live off base. 3ome10 percent of .themare going to segregated schools because they iave to live on a base. some go to segregated schools90 percent of them. because they are unfortunate egh to ive off base. the fundamental argument against the amendment is that the program will go down the drain. is  that the very reason why it has been possible to frustrate and kill civil rights legislation on the floor of the senate. it is always considered by itself.  in relation to things which are of vital interest. hence. senators who oppose civil rights bills with a filibusterand they are a miity---can always have an edge over the rest of us. because we are fighting the battle. yet they are ahead. they lose hing. if they defeat the legislation. they defeat it. if they do . they do . they do  lose anything in the substantive program. whereas in this program. they do lose something. this is one case where they can lose something by defeating the bill. yet we always shy away. for how long are we going to submit to the tyranny of a miity. that is exactly what it is. there is just as much tyranny. as history has shown for a century. in a miity as there can be in a majority. the final and very important point of difference is this: it is beyond me to understand why one of the presidents departments. the department of health. education. and welfare. has to follow a policy of dissent. for that is what it comes down to. in the department of agriculture there is some dissent. but the consequences are  so great. in the department of health. education. and welfare it is very great. the situation does  exist in the department of defense. in the post office department. or any other government department. the department of defense is the most salient example. consider the attack mounted against the department of defense because of secretary mcnamaras directive with respect to offbase facilities. that department has  budged an inch. that department is right. i hope it does  budge an inch and will stick to its guns. but hew is a department that runs a government within a government. the president can avoid responsibility for it. the members of his party can avoid responsibility for it. the president was  afraid to make a housing order.  so comprehensive as it should have been. but quite a sweeping order. he made it. why do we have to bridle at a proposal which affects children and would direct the payment of taxpayers money into totally new programs. why must the president be looking over his shoulder to see what is happening in the southern states on this matter. why did he. after a time. issue the housing order. in a sense. equality in this instance is even more crucial. because it involves direct payments by the federal government to state agencies which are segregated. under the housing order. federal credit or federal insurance was generally involved. which is pretty potent. but it is  getting money on the barrelhead. for all these reasons. and with great regret. i feel that this battle has to be fought. the miity party has a duty. i am a member of the miity party. the miity has a duty to expose. and a duty to propose constructive alternatives. the miity would  be doing its duty otherwise. it could go down to defeat 50 times. it could go down to defeat but could ultimately prevail. in my judgment. the miity would  be doing its duty unless it exposed this situation. which is what i am doing today. i am trying to point out where the duty lies. where the responsibility lies. and what must be done. particularly in light of the dangerous situation which exists in the country today. we are  living in the 1940s or the 1950s. we are living in 1963. when bombings. raids. and disorders are occurring. with great fear of more to come. thus it is our duty to do whatever we can to make certain that justice is done. in order to avoid dread consequences. that is my argument. if the senator from oregon is ready to move to table my amendment. i should like to ask for the yeas and nays. . a parliamentary inquiry.
. i send to the desk. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent that it be received out of order and appropriately referred. a bill to authorize the federal housing administration to remedy substantial defects in federally insured homes. the proposed section 517 of the national housing act would enable the fha to extend aid to distressed homeowners who. after relying upon fha appraisals and inspections. find substantial defects in their properties. such cases are isolated and relatively few in number. but there have been situations in which faulty inspections or mistakes in judgment have resulted in serious deficiencies in the properties. in many instances builders when ified correct the deficiencies and. especially during the first year following the completion of construction while the builders warranty remains effective. this is obviously the most preferable solution. however. from time to time the press has properly reported certain "horror cases" where the corporation which built the home is longer in existence. has assets. or refuses to cooperate. the proposed section 517 would enable the fha to handle such cases as well as those in which the property is more than 1 year old and the deficiencies. such as the failure of septic tanks to function. make the 1963 ". property uninhabitable or unfit for occupancy. in these hardship cases under present law the family owning the home generally defaults in mortgage payments. and the property. after being acquired by the fha under the provisions of the mortgage insurance contract. is repaired and sold on the open market. thus the fha bears the expense of correcting the deficiencies. but only after the original homeowners have been displaced and have lost their equity. the bill would permit the fha to correct the defect before the family is pressed to the point of abandoning its home. the fha has operated in a similar manner for a number of years by providing a limited guarantee or warranty against defects in properties which have been acquired and sold by the commissioner. the cost of performing under such guarantees or warranties has been relatively small and claims from home purchasers have  been excessive. under the proposed section 517 the fha could give similar protection to families purchasing homes in reliance upon fha appraisals and inspections. the cost of administration would be kept to a minimum by making decisions of the federal housing commissioner final and conclusive without resort to the courts. aher bill to deal with this problem. s. 1200. introduced by senator gruening. takes a somewhat different approach. hearings have been annced by the housing subcommittee for october 17 and 18. and i very much hope that the bill  being introduced can be considered at the same time. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i am very grateful to the senator. as i explained to the senator from wisconsin . were it  for the problems with the senator from oregon . the amendments would mally be accepted by the senator in charge of the bill.  feels that this will be desirable in our national interest and (b) 100 percent of any loan investment for housing projects. in pursuance of the program. there is an authorization of $180 million. outstanding are $8.2 million in guarantees. applications in process total $9.5 million. it is clear that an effort is being made to apply the extended risk guarantees to housing as well. this is a desirable way to manifest our aid to a particular country. one of the problems encountered has been the rather small staff available to work on the guarantee contracts. hence in respect of the extended risk guarantees and the latin american housing guarantees a very small amount has been used. for the latter program $60 miltion was authorized. $1.3 million is actually outstanding. and $20 million is pending. the difficulty has been in assigning the necessary personnel for the purpose. in the case of the specific risk guarantee program there is still an 18month backlog. this particular phase of the program  totaling $900 million is administered by 16 people. a u.s. investor. wishing to invest in a developing country and get a guarantee. would have to wait some 18 months before he could mally expect action on his request. it has been only recently that nine additional individuals have been authorized to work directly in this program. supported by three attorneys. the 2yearold extended risk guartee program is still in the process of formulating policy. i understand. however. that a policy directive is to be issued in 3 to 6 weeks. the latin american housing program. which is also 2 years old. until recently was manned by three individuals.  they have nine fulltime individuals. i believe it would be desirable for the chairman of the committee to express his opinion as to the desirability of providing the necessary staff in aid. so that the investmentguaranty program may be effectively implemented all the way down the line. i am sorry to report to the senate. in respect of -the major guaranteesthe specific risk guarantees for which we are asked to authorize $2.5 billion in the billthere is an 18month backlog. this information is from the agency itself. many proposals. subjected to that kind of timelag for approval. may well be withdrawn or become academic. business is  mally in position to wait all that time for a particular guarantee to come through. to facilitate an investment. so i ask the chairman to comment upon that situation. which is troublesome for those who are anxious to use the program. when it is certainly very much in the american interest that it be used.
i do  believe so. either. i appreciate the administrative difficulties. and that there was a shortage of personnel on the housing program guarantees. what disturbs me most is the 18month lag in the major guarantee program. that is. the specific risk guarantee program. as a person who represented business interests when i was active in the practice of law. it seems to me that if there were any delays they would kill most proposals for which guarantees were being sought. from the point of view of encouraging rather than discouraging the guarantee mechanism. and therefore private investment. it seemed to me it was well worth putting some pressure on and moving it more actively than it seems to be moving.
a number of reports were submitted by members of the ecoic committee itself. from the u.s. point of view. i would say that the reports and recommendations dealing with eastwest trade and the atlantic community development group for latin americaadelaare of prime interest. therefore. i ask unanimous consent to have these reports inserted at this point of the proceedings.
. there is some misapprehension in some quarters about whether the pending civil rights bill deals with housing. as i read the bill. there is hing in it which changes existing regulation. existing law. the federal law on the subject is. of course. the executive order against discrimination in federally financed housing which was issued in the fall of 1962. trends in housing. the bimonthly journal of the national committee against discrimination in housing. recently assayed the first year of the executive order and emphasized a point which i believe may be of interest in connection with many of the more sensational predictions being circulated about the pending civil rights bill. when the executive order was first issued. there were dire predictions about the havoc it would create in housing. . even trade journals agree that business has never been better than during the first year of the order. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the trends article may be printed in the record.
i shall be glad to answer that question. the laws of new york have worked well in many respects. but with the increasing number of people and the number of additional problems that an increasing population brings. they have  worked perfectly. the laws regarding fair housing opportunities. even in private housing. are fairly recent. the housing patternthe concentration of negroes in certain areas in new york cityhas been contributed to by reason of the fact that ecoic opportunities are behind the times. let us remember that there has been a large movement of negroes from the south into new york and other large cities. they come to us with the heritage in their own lives. and the lives of those who came before them. of being a suppressed class. ecoically and otherwise. it requires time before we can come abreast of that kind of situation. whereas. in the social order of the south. the system and the fears which it engenders keep negroes relatively quiet.
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of my colleague. the junior senator from new york . be added as a cosponsor to amendments . 458. 459. and 460. which i submitted to senate bill 2468. the housing act of 1964. on march 3. 1964.
 of the interamerican development bank. by walter j. sedwitz. assistant secretary for ecoic and social affairs. pan american union. by warren wilhelm. executive director. atlantic community development group for latin america. by teodoro moscoso. u.s. member. interamerican committee for the alliance for progress--ciapand by h. courtney stickey. of the chase manhattan bank. new york. i ask unanimous consent that the articles referred to above be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i ask unanimous consent to include in the record at this point the final report of the executive directors of the atlantic community development group for latin america. showing exactly how this program was brought to its present state. it is a remarkable achievement. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a chroogical summary of the atlantic community development group for latin america. prepared by its executive secretary. herbert blitz. formerly in my service and  in the service of adela.
. one of the most difficult myths to dispel about the pending civil rights measure is that it has some effect upon sales or rental of housing. it does  have any effect on these. which are already governed by the executive order against discrimination in housing financed with federal guarantees or loans. the real estate board of the bronx recently recognized. most commendably. both the moral imperative embodied in the bill and the fact that the bill does  even yet approach in effect the existing new york law against discrimination. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial from the june 1964 issue of bronx real estate & building news be printed in the record at this point in my remarks. along with an editorial broadcast by station wmca commending the real estate board of new york for its similar stand.
i believe the bill which has been brought in by the senator from alabama and the majority of the committee represents a careful balance between what everybody. including myself. wanted and what was possible and attainable within the broad concensus of opinion in the. congress. at the same time it does  run afoul of the decision that a major overhaul of housing legislation should come next year. my colleague. the senator from texas. was specific in pointing out the things with which he dealt in his substitute and which were omitted from his substitute because it was felt it was inconsistent with the concept of a "barebones" bill. i should like to point out a number of things which the committee bill did  do and which were passed over precisely because. as the senator from alabama advised. quite properly. the bill had to be held to those areas in which there was substantial agreement. for example. with respect to urban renewal. on which the senator from pennsylvania . a former mayor. has spoken. it is desirable to have a program on which communities could depend for a very extended time for their planning. but in the committee bill the amount of money available for that purpose has been sharply curtailed because the view of the senator from alabama prevailed that we had better  go into that field. and that we will get into a longer range consideration of urban renewal later. in aher respect. with relation to public housing. a temporary expedient was accepted rather than a comprehensive plan under which communities would be given a reasonable opportunity to plan.
. i deeply feeland there are others who feel as i dothat we have  done as much as we should have done for middleincome housing. since 1961 we have been trying out a program by which a lower interest rate than is obtainable for fha mortgages is used to encourage middleincome housing. the chairman of the committee is frank egh to say that if that did  work he would be inclined to go along with the new york plan. which calls for the pooling of housing mortgages and their sale by a governmental authority. but without any guarantee. necessarily. i advanced this proposal. because it has proved its worth in new york. where we have put up a billion dollars worth of housing without involving the credit of the state government. the chairman said he would much prefer  to deal with it at this time. and it was laid aside. withstanding that this is one of the most urgent problems in the country.
finally. perhaps where the shoe pinched the hardestand this goes again to the senator from pennsylvania -is in housing for the elderly. if anything cries for attention it is the need to do something really appreciable in housing for the elderly. but when we look at this bill. there is almost hing in the bill. except for a few meager provisions on this subject. yet we have to stand aside this year. if that does  define the bill as a barebones bill. i do  k what does.
. this is a very significant housing bill because through it a great program is being continued. we have illusions about any new initiatives which are being taken in this bill. there are major initiatives in this bill. i k that the chairman shares with others on the committeeespecially those from the big urban centersthe fact that we shall soon have to undertake some major initiatives. i believe that they can be undertaken without necessarily spending money. but instead by bending the coordinating capability of the federal government to more effective use of resources which are potentially available for housing. there is gainsaying that we can hide the great need under a bushel. that urban situations such as the recent riots in harlem are very heavily attributable to the fact that housing is miserable. we have tried hard: certainly the state of new york is a leader in the united states in the effort to afford people decent housing. but try as we will. slums seem just about to keep pace with the housing we create. it would be infinitely worse if we did  have these programs at city. state. and federal levels of government. but we do need major initiatives which will help more quickly to break the back of segregated housing. housing which just does  represent common humanity to individuals. we have tried. in this bill to improve existing programs. although it is  a major move along that road. i hope that a major one will be made next year. certainly it is urgently dueand long overdue. i have mentioned the middle income housing field. where several hundred thousand more units can be created in the country. the entire program could be revamped along the lines of the program in new york for middle income housing. which involves real property tax abatement and acceptance of lower interest rates on money. but laying that aside. we have tried in this bill to make some contribution within the ground rules prescribed by our most distinguished and able chairman. who has dealt with this subject so constructively in this matter. i count the principal contribution to be code enforcement. concerning which the senator from illis has so graciously spoken in connection with me. the inclusion of this idea in the workable program concept for urban renewal can have probably as important an effect as anything in checking deterioration into slums. it is unbelievable that in this day and age there should be so relatively little code enactment and code enforcement in areas of the country which could vastly benefit from such codes. we seemingly have been unable to get back of this idea in the techniques we have used. so the committee has  said that in 3 years it wants to see real action. by including this in the "workable program" concept. the committee wants this program made to work. i point out to my republican colleagues that this idea emanated from representative widnalls substitute bill in the other body. the republican housing bill. it was one of the most dearly held objectives of former senator capehart when he was chairman and ranking republican member of the committee on banking and currency. it is a significant achievement of the bill. we are also dealing in the bill with substantial defects in fhainsured housing by getting the fha to take care of those relatively few cases in which the builder does  take care of them. i think it is a very desirable measure of justice. senator gruening and i have worked hard on it and both introduced bills on the subject. i thank senator douglas for calling attention to it. i would also like to mention the additional relocation assistance that was provided for small business. also. we have begun a limited experiment in relocation assistance through rent supplements for low- or moderateincome families and elderly individuals. we shall be watching it very closely to see if it is deserving. i have pronced opinion about it at the moment. but i think it is a useful experiment in an area in which we have justification for trying it. finally. the treatment of air rights sites for housing as urban renewal. which the bill authorizes. is a very enterprising move taken by the committee. gover rockefeller has been the leading exponent of this concept. particularly in the city of new york. air sites may be extremely useful in crowded urban areas if they can be treated as urban renewal sites. i invite my colleagues to come to the city of new york to see the highrise apartment buildings in which the concept of air sites has been utilized.
. will the the house who successfully carried through mr. sparkman loan fund for slum rehabilitation. in mr. clark. i should like to e my lieu of tearing down buildings  stand- concurrence in the kind words spoken by ing and building new ones. this will be the senator from new york about the of great benefit. outstanding work done by the chairone could have sat in the confer- man of the senate subcommittee on ence without paying tribute to the dis- housing. who was also the head of the tinguished senator from alabama [mr. senatorial conferees. the distinguished sparkman]. his interests were  per- senator from alabama . sonal as necessarily affecting his state. through the years since i first came to but so wide his range of interest and the senate. it has been my privilege every so understanding is his mind with respect year to work under senator sparkmans to the housing problems of the great kindly. intelligent guidance in bringing cities that he was the main instrument. housing bills to the floor of the senate. on the senate side. in bringing about through the senate. and into conference what i believe should properly be hailed. with the house.  as a bare bones housing bill. as we his kledge ot the whole subjectthought it would be. but as a milestone and a vast subject it iswhich is covered housing bill. by these omnibus housing bills is uni wish also to pay tribute to repre- equaled by that of any other man in the sentative albert rains. who is unfor- country. i k of more skillful netunately retiring from congress. who has gotiator. or any more genial and kindly led the other body on housing legisla- presiding officer. under his guidance tion. and to whom also we owe a great there was a minimum of partisanship in debt for his understanding of many of connection with getting the important these problems. as was the case with housing bill through the senate and conthe senator from alabama. these prob- ference. lems were  typical exclusively of his we have a big task to perform next community. but the understanding and year. as the senator from alabama broad outlook which he brought to the ks. in writing a more permanent conference were materially responsible housing bill than we were able to write for this result. all of us. without re- this year. to a large extent this bill. gard to party. especially those who come although excellent. is a stopgap measure from large cities. are deeply indebted to intended to keep existing programs rollsenator sparkman and representative ing until september 30. 1965. rains and. of course. to all the other there are many recommendations of conferees othe administration and many recomconferees. mendations of members of the subcom-
. i wish to address a series of questions to the senator from rhode island. who is in charge of the bill. first. will he give the senate an explanation of exactly what took place with respect to urban transportation activities under the housing and home finance agency. as referred to on page 8 of the committee report. this is a subject of burning concern to us in the great urban areasand. of course. the state of the senator from rhode island has a great urban area in providence. so the senator ks something about bigcity problems. it will be ed that the urban mass transportation provisions were cut by nearly twothirds in the house. the senate committee. apparently  content with that rather drastic cut. made an even further cut in the bill by $15 million. the only restoration was $2.500.000 for loans. so there is. over and above the amount of the house cut. a $12.500.000 net cut in the senate bill. may we have from the senator from rhode island some explanation of why that was done.
i appreciate the assurance of the senator from massachusetts. there is the great urban complex in boston which is directly affected by this problem. . returning to the urban planning grants. it will be ed that the urban planning grants provision of the new housing act takes in the larger as well as the smaller counties of the country by amendments made to the law. and  includes 450 of the largest counties in the united states. etheless. on this rather large. new demand for urban planning grants. the allowance has been cut in half. both by the house and by the senate. i would deeply appreciate it if the senator from rhode island would explain that.
. i should like to call the attention of the senate to a remarkable effort in the middle income housing field which has been carried out under new york states mitchell lama program plan i have previously proposed in housing bills. i have long believed in and proposed a federal program parallel to the mitchell lama program which would include a federal limited profit mortgage corportation. financed by taxfree bonds issued on the money market. to underwrite limitedprofit middleincome housing at a cost within the reach of families earning between $5.000 and $8.000. i ask unanimous consent that the details of this successful project in new york. as published in a new york times article of february 10. 1965. entitled "big cooperative to rise in bronx." may be printed at this point in the record.
 of the first national city bank. of the merger of three u.s. business organizations concerned with latin america into the new council for latin america. till  the three organizations have carried on separate activities. the purpose of the new council will be to coordinate and strengthen ecoic. community. and cultural relations within the western hemisphere. the merger of these organizations into a single unit is laudable and should help in the further strengthening of u.s. business activity in the broader fields of ecoic. social. and community development which are so essential in creating a favorable atmosphere for the growth of a viable private sector in latin america.
i am proud of my association with this effort. there are few ways in which we have an opportunity in our lives to help in a more le manner than providing assistance to homeless and parentless children. i have seen some magnificent and wonderfully happy results of adoption. king the senator from connecticut as i do. i should like to ask him a question. i k the answer. but i think it is important to get it from the senator in charge of the bill. we shall be watching this program as it is worked out. the senator has the same humility about it that the rest of us have. if we find that for any reason this measure has missed the mark in fulfilling its intended purpose. the senator from connecticut will be the first to do something about it.
. new yorks successful mitchelllama program. along which this measure was patterned. has. as of december 31. 1964. had the following results: projects units completed ----------------------- 43 15. 784 under construction--------------- 17 12.221 in planning -------------------- 6.381 total --------------------- 69 34.386 new york city mitchelllama program projects units completed ------------------- 137 116.305 under construction --------------- 9 2. 855 in planning --------------------- 15 4.858 total ------------------- 61 24.018 i includes 7 lowrent projects and 6.170 units which are conversions to coops. total mitchelllama program in new york state projects units completed ------------------- 180 32. 089 under construction --------------- 2 1.076 in planning--------------------- 24 11.239 grand total --------------1130 158.404 i includes 7 lowrent projects and 6.170 units which are conversions to coops. the use of lowcost. longterm financing with federal garantees. together with limited profit vnership. government supervision ox construction and encouragement of local tax abatement would provide a new arsenal of weapons to meet the urgent needs of moderateincome housing and would allow the gap to be filled between lowcost public housing and the higher rentals resulting from conventional financing. i believe that the private enterprise system can and should be stimulated to fill this need to a far greater extent than has been the case up to .
. i send to the desk. for printing and appropriate reference. three amendments to s. 1354. the administrations housing bill. the amendments wouldpermit the housing and home finance agency administrator to waive the present 15percent limitation on allocation of public housing funds for use by any one state. upon a finding that imposition of the limitation would cause hardship to a large number of lowincome families in that state. the result of the present limitation is that fewer dwelling units are built in states with higher construction costs. waiver of the limitation would provide authority for the allocation of more lowrental housing in new york as well as other states with large urban centers. the continuing 15percent dollar limitation for any one state is unrealistic as well as unfair. it iges the need for larger amounts of lowincome housing in the highcost. densely populated urban areas. it does  recognize the fact that metropolitan areas ige state boundaries. it inhibits the administrator of the housing and home finance agency from allocating public housing on an areawide and regional basis. and it is out of step with the growing emphasis on area development that has been recognized in other sections of the housing and urban development act of 1965. it is a relic of the past. it should be discarded. . increase the federal cost limitation on construction of rooms for lowrental housing by $1.000 per room from the existing limitation of $2.750 per room in new york and $3.750 per room for housing for the elderly existing in areas of acute need and high cost such as new york. increasing the per room construction cost limitation would permit more desirable and livable lowrent housing. expand relocation assistance for small businesses displaced by urban renewal projects to include payments of up to $10.000 upon relocation. the present limitation on relocation compensation is $1.500. but this figure was found to be totally inadequate by the select committee on real property acquisition of the house committee on public works. this additional payment is designed to aid small businesses which are less able to adjust to a new environment than the larger and more flexible business enterprises. strengthen the existing national housing act middleincome program by providing for a program of federal matching grants for state and local contributions to such housing projects. the amendment would permit the federal government to make matching grants equal to onehalf the value of state and local contributions to the federal program and thus permit substantial reductions for existing middleincome programs. contributions could take the form of local tax abatement or donation of land prior to construction of a project or local rent subsidy. where the state or local contribution was made in the form of tax abatement or rent subsidy on an annual basis. the federal contribution could be made yearly up to 25 percent of the development cost of the housing project. in new york city. for example. where real estate taxes on a $12.500 unit amount to approximately $490 per unit. a matching grant of full value equal to the dollar amount of a tax abatement of 50 percent would result in a reduction of $41.50 per month for a rental of a single unit.
. this is an amendment to s. 1599. the bill to establish a department of housing and urban development. to create in the department. an office of urban program coordination to provide specific machinery for the coordination of the approximately 60 programs concerning urban development which are  under the jurisdiction of the department of housing and urban development. as the bill is presently drafted. i am cosponsor of s. 1599. and support its objectives. however. while the bill provides generally that the secretary shall have authority to coordinate federal activity affecting housing and urban development. there is machinery for the secretary to utilize in coordinating the administration of the more than 60 federal programs concerned with urban metropolitan areas. the secretarys direct jurisdiction. it is expected. will cover only the constituent units of the housing and home finance agency whose functions and powers will be transferred to the department. there is an urgent need that the secretary of the department of housing and urban development be the focal point for the many development programs having an impact on urban areas and that he have the machinery to coordinate these programs. the amendment would. in addition. authorize the establishment of an interagency coordinating council. to be made up of distinguished citizens outside the government appointed by the secretary to provide the secretary of the department with their recommendations for developing proposals for improving programs of the various departments and agencies of the government which have a major impact on urban development. the council also would be composed of ex officio members including the secretary of housing and urban development and the secretaries of labor. commerce. health. education. and welfare. and treasury. the director. the administrator of the federal aviation agency. the chairman of the interstate commerce commission. and the administrator of veterans affairs and other designated officials. i trust that the executive reorganization subcommittee of the government operations committee under the able chairmanship of senator ribicoff and of which i am a member will consider the objectives of this amendment and evaluate how best these objectives may be carried out.
i appreciate the senators allowing me to join in sponsoring his amendment with him. having served on the committee and having had the ho of serving under the chairmanship of the senator from alabama. who is one of the greatest friends that housing in this country has ever had-
. i wish to make a few observations on the bill and to express my appreciation to the committee for the acceptance of a number of amendments which i proposed to the committee. i wish to express my appreciation especially to the senator from texas .  the ranking member of the subcommittee on housing. who gave my amendments the greatest personal attention and went to considerable personal pains to see to it that they receive the consideration of the committee. i also express appreciation to the distinguished senator from alabama . chairman of the subcommittee on housing. and the senator from illis . who have always been most sympathetic to any proposals i have made. first. the committee adopted an amendment to increase the cost limitations for the construction of rooms in lowrent public housing from $2.000 to $2.400 for regular units and from $3.000 to $3.500 in the case of units constructed for the elderly in alaska. the increases are based on the higher costs of construction today. such increases in the statutory limitation on construction costs for rooms in lowrent housing are vitally important to improve the living conditions of the larger number of lower income citizens who utilize this important program. in my second amendment. the committee authorized the existing 15percent limitation for public housing funds for any one state to be implemented in conjunction with the right of the administrator of the hhfa to reallocate units of public housing  placed under construction within 5 years from the date reserved without regard to that limitation. in states such as new york. the statutory limit on funds may be reached even though there is urgent need for more lowrent housing. and the local authorities could proceed without delay in providing such additional lowrent housing because of this amendment. for several years. many of us have endeavored to insure that states which have the heaviest need for lowincome housing shall  be burdened with the same inflexibility as states  having such heavy. pressing needs. the committee has dealt with the injustices of the 15percent limitation in an excellent manner. this action will enhance benefits for those who urgently need public housing in large cities. such as those in my own state of new york. third. the committee has adopted an amendment which i proposed to increase the amount of relocation adjustment payments authorized to be made to any small business concern displaced by urban renewal from the present $1.500 to $2.500. in the housing act of 1964. congress provided for $1.500 payments to displaced businesses when earnings were under $10.000 a year. since that time the problem has had considerable study. incidentally. the senator from alabama has led in that study. in fairness to families and small business. and the study has shown the difficulty which small business faced with the inadequacy of relocation payments. i  feel that the committee has made a real contribution on that score. and i am hopeful also that the senate committee on government operations. which is conducting hearings in an effort to establish uniform policy for relocation adjustments. will provide additional means for aiding those displaced by federal programs. the select subcommittee on real property acquisition of the house public works committee. in a report completed in december of last year. provided new evidence on the insufficiency of certain relocation payments. the study emphasizes the difficulties which small businesses incur in relocating without the loss of established patronage. the variety of costs incurred in establishing a business apart from moving expenses and those required to develop new patronage are . in many cases. properly provided for. displacements are particularly difficult for the elderly and white displaced. the inadequacy of relocation payment and the absence of advice and counseling also contribute to the high rate of business discontinuance which in many communities ranges between 25 and 40 percent. i also commend the committee for bringing the focus of the rent supplement program upon lower income families having the greatest need for such housing assistance. the program as it was originally proposed by the administration was intended to aid middleincome housing with those having incomes of between $4.000 and $6.000. the committee has seen fit to establish an experimental program with respect to housing built by private profit or limited dividend corporations or by cooperatives and financed with section 221(d) (3) below market interest rate mortgages. as well as programs under housing for the elderly. under the committee bill. only 10 percent of the amounts appropriated for the purpose of making rent supplement payments could be used for this experimental program and rent supplement payments could  be made with respect to more than 20 percent of the dwelling units. i believe that we should give very careful consideration to helping our middleincome housing programs and should give serious attention to the results of this experimental program. the action by the committee in placing an interest rate ceiling of 3 percent on mortgages which may be insured by fha under the section 221(d) (3) below market interest rate program will do much to reduce the costs of middleincome housing and may provide a stimulus to the program which has  existed. in a meaningful way in areas of the theast such as new york. however. i urge the administrator of hhfa to continue to review ways of improving the existing middleincome housing program. i have this year introduced legislation to establish a program to set up federal guarantees for taxfree housing bonds issued by local housing authorities for sale on the public market. and allow these authorities to use the revenue to make lowcost. longterm mortgage loans available to profit. or limitedprofit corporations for construction of moderateincome housing projects and housing for the elderly. mortgage loans would be authorized in an amount up to 90 percent of the development cost of a project with 50year maturities and at interest rates  in excess of 5 percent. dividends of the eligible borrowers would be limited to 6 percent and all rents and carrying charges would be subject to the approval of the lcoal housing agency. such a program would follow the successful pattern of the new york state mitchell lama program established in 1956 and the pioneering program of the new york state housing finance agency which has sold $429.239.000 in longterm obligations in the open market to permit financing of privately owned housing at rentals low egh to make modern housing available to a vast segment of the population that previously could  afford new housing. some 130 projects consisting of over 58.000 units have been initiated under this program. i believe that based upon the precedent of new york states efforts in financing private moderateincome housing that the private enterprise system can and should be stimulated to fill the urgent needs of moderateincome housing to a far greater extent than has been the case up to . there is strong precedent for such an emphasis on the role of private enterprise throughout existing housing legislation. particularly the congressional declaration of national housing policy in the housing act of 1949 which states: the policy to be followed in attaining the national housing objective established shall be: (1) private enterprise shall be encouraged to serve as large a part of the total need as it can. (2) governmental assistance shall be utilized where feasible to enable private enterprise to serve more of the total need. (3) appropriate local public bodies shall be encouraged and assisted to undertake positive programs of encouraging and assisting the development of wellplanned. integrated residential neighborhoods. the development and redevelopment of communities. and the production. at lower costs. of housing of sound standards of design. construction. livability. and size for adequate family life.
. i have  spoken in detail on the rent subsidy proposal. that issue has  been basically decided. and i say to the senate that i believe i k of this situation from a social point of view. i believe i can say to the senate that socially it is a wise move. one of the real problems that we have had is that we have cased people up. from a social tension point of view. in barracklike housing structures in which they feel that they are shut off from the rest of the world. they feel that they do  necessarily belong to the rest of the world because they are part of the large segment of substandard housing. such amount of substandard housing is reflected by the fact that in 1950 new york city had approximately 367.000 units of substandard housing. today it has a good deal less. but much more remains to be done. i believe that the rent supplement experimentand i say this with the greatest respect for those who oppose the billmay very well prove to be a very desirable social effort in the big cities in which we have had a tremendous buildup of tensions. including racial tensions resulting from inadequate housing. i believe that has been somewhat attributable to the fact that we have segregated people in emous housing structures and immunized them from a broad community responsibility. new york has a vital need of new housing units and improved housing. also of importance. is the legislative oversight which we should give to the program to insure that it is administered constructively and well matter what amount of funds we finally agree on.
the purpose of the amendment is to focus much needed attention on the plight of the homeowner near airports where the homeowner finds his property reduced in value by virtue of aircraft ses. the amendment also directs a study at one and the same time of what might be done in the housing construction field to see if such aircraft ses could be reduced. the reason that i have been moved to suggest my approachwhich. as i emphasize. involves a study. the report on which shall be rendered as soon as practicable but in event later than 1 yearis that there is a very grave problem here. in my particular part of the country there are a number of airports surrounding new york. and undoubtedly there will be moreand other senators will have the same problem in their areas we found in our research that in england it was finally decided. after considerable inquiry. that a great deal could be done to abate aircraft ses by the method of home construction. a report prepared for the parliament by a committee on the problem of se proposed a grant program to help people seriously disturbed near airports to improve dwellings. there seems to be reasonwhy there should be a damaging depreciation of home values because the homes are 1cated near airports. based upon that precedent. instead of trying a specific detailed programbecause i felt we should proceed to get the administrator of hhfa to dig into the problem and to bring back some word as to what might be done. and then we can decide whether we want to do it or . the house report urges a study of the question of depreciation of homes near airports and urges that it be the subject of subcommittee hearings.
that is very true. but really. the senator from alabama. with his great devotion to housing. has in this bill been able to provide leadership for a great many programs which the cities urgently need. many problems remain unsolved. but the bill contains a number of items which are especially helpful and important to the cities. they should be ed. because they indicate the kind of concern over where the housing shoe pinches the most in human misery and deprivation. i invite attention to some of these provisions such as the allowability of an increase in the per room cost limitations on public housing. to the opportunity to reallocate public housing units  under construction within 5 years from the date reserved without regard to the 15percent state limit. when one realizes how hard it was to get that. one is appalled at how difficult it is to get things done that seem meritorious. i invite attention also to the needed increase in compensation to small businesses displaced by urban renewal. i also feel that the remarkable efforts of the committee. under the leadership of the senator from alabama . in respect to code enforcement are important aspects of the bill. as is the new breakthrough in rent supplements. which i supported. the efforts to bring the focus of rent supplements upon lower income families with the greatest needs was a most constructive one. the efforts to improve the 221(d) (3) below market interest rate program were also most valuable. i am pleased to see that the senate was able to retain the increase from $50 to $100 million in the authorization for rehabilitation loans. which i proposed for urban renewal areas. the bill makes contributions to the major and vital needs of low- and middleincome housing. finally. i can tell the senator how happy i am and how happy it must be for many other representatives and senators who come from highly metropolitan areas with respect to the action taken on airport problems. this is the time to really obtain the research and organizational help of federal housing officials in the se abatement field and k that something tangible will be done in terms of examining into what can be done to improve housing near airports and to alleviate many of the existing problems concerning valuation. citizens living near airports do  seem to be asking for the millennium. they k that airports can be eliminated. they k that airports have to be near fairly sizable space. but. at least. they want the resulting problems examined and efforts made. on this ground and many others. i express appreciation for the fine leadership of the senator from alabama. i appreciate the sympathetic consideration which he gave to these proposals and many others. i am proud of the leadership of the distinguished senator from texas . he may have agreed or disagreed with particular aspects of the bill. but once the senate spoke. he was a powerful advocate for doing what the senate wanted done. and he acted in a most dedicated way. we owe much. with respect to what has been done in the bill. to the fine collaboration which  exists between the chairman of the subcommittee on housing and the ranking miity member.
. i am pleased that the matter of the disposition of ellis island will be finally settled with the passage of this joint resolution. over the years. this islandwhich holds such an hoed place in the history of the nationhas been the subject of study and controversy. and many alternatives have been proposed for its use since it ceased to be the immigration reception center for the east coast. lying at the entrance to new york harbor. it is in an ideal location for any one of a number of projectsa great memorial. a university. a housing development. a hospitalall of which. have. at one time or aher been considered by the federal government. but the plan upon which we have  settled is by far the most suitable. ellis island will be developed as part of the statute of liberty national monument. a museum will be built on the island and park land landscaped and developed. it is hoped eventually. that the island will be connected by walkway or causeway with the proposed jersey city waterfront park. with the passage of this joint resolution. we authorize the expenditure of $6 million to develop ellis island along these lines. it is an investment in needed park space and a commemoration of a most storied part of our nations history. the shares of many immigrant sons and daughters who have contributed so much to make our nation great are with us today. their living descendants like myself and generations to come will deeply appreciate this deed.
s need for an administrative instrument to facilitate both the formulation and the execution of public policy in the broad fields of housing and urban development. the senator from connecticut is to be highly commended for his outstanding work to secure favorable action on this bill and equally so for his recognition that much remains to be done with respect to the organization of a department of housing and urban development. the bill which the committee reported out is a stronger bill than in its original form in that it recognizes the need for considering the inclusion in the department of other federal agencies whose functions concern the development of urban areas. the bill also provides machinery through the creation of an office of urban program coordination. which i proposed. for the coordination of the some 60 federal programs of various departments and agencies having a major impact on community development. this office. created to assist the secretary of the department in carrying out his responsibilities. is intended to enable the department to keep in touch and coordinate all urban development programs operated by the department and those operated outside. such as the interstate highway program. the area redevelopment program. airport planning and development. transportation programs in the department of commerce. and physical development programs in the department of hew as well as the antipoverty program. the need for increasing the coordination role of the department had been strongly emphasized in the house of representatives and in testimony before the government operations committee of both houses. in describing the purpose of this new office of urban program coordination. the committee report states: the committee believes that the office will be an extremely important source of assistance to the secretary in enabling him to carry out his coordinating responsibilities. in providing assistance to the secretary of the department. the director of the office would. under the committee amendment.make such studies of urban problems as the secretary shall request. and would develop recommendations relating to the administration of federal programs affecting community development. the director would. in carrying out his responsibilities. (1) establish and maintain close liaison with the other. federal departments and agencies concerned. and (2) consult with state. local. and regional officials. and consider their recommendations with respect to community development programs. the need for eventually bringing under the jurisdiction of the department many of the other urban programs should  be overlooked in acting on the bill today. aher amendment which i proposed was the creation of an urban interagency advisory council composed of certain cabinet secretaries and heads of independent federal agencies concerned with community development programs to advise the secretary of the new department with respect to developing proposals for improving existing and creating new programs for the various federal agencies. rather than requiring that the composition of this advisory group be locked into the statute. it was suggested that such a body could be created with greater flexibility by means of an executive order and in view of this belief the amendment was  pressed. accordingly. i hope that such an urban interagency advisory council will be established to insure maximum effectiveness and coordination of programs affecting urban areas.
the other point which i should like to mention is the fact that the new department is directedand i emphasize the word "directed"-by section 3(b) to do two things: first. to consult and cooperate closely with state governmentsand i hope that the mandate will be taken seriously by the new secretary. second. provision in 3(b) which is important. is the encouragement given to private enterprise. we specifically spell it outthat private enterprise serve a larger part of urban development needs. again i hope that the department will understand the seriousness with which we take this particular provision.  appoints as the secretary. whose ination will be confirmed by the senate. will have a deep understanding of the fact that perhaps the hallmark of this whole century will be the culture and development of the cities in art. music. literature. education. as well as in the physical development and that millions of people in close relation to each other can live together  only in peace and mutual understanding. but also in comfort and happiness. this will be one of the greatest things which will have been proved by this century. and the new department of housing and urban development upon which we are acting today will go a long way toward helping make it a reality.
subsequentl said: . the conference report on the bill to create a new federal department of housing and urban development. approved by the senate today. represents an important revision. and in my judgment a stronger measure than the one introduced with administration support last march. i am most gratified that the department. which i have supported since its beginning in the 86th congress. is  almost a reality. creation of this new urban development executive department represents the dawn of a new era in recognition of and in providing hope for the solution of the serious and complex problems of this nations metropolitan man. the department will provide important new organizational machinery to deal with the critical problems of metropolitan communities. the senator from connecticut and .the members of the committee did a most outstanding job in working on this bill. the need for coordinating all federal programs which have an impact on urban development has been provided for in the bill by the creation of staff responsibilities in the department to coordinate such programs. i believe this coordinating function in the department is vitally important. a second amendment which i suggested was the establishment of an urban interagency advisory council composed of certain cabinet secretaries and heads of independent federal agencies concerned with community development programs to advise the secretary of the new department with respect to developing and improving existing development programs and considering new ones. it was suggested that such a body could be created with greater flexibility by means of an executive order. accordingly. i very much hope that such an interagency advisory council will soon be established to ensure maximum effectiveness of the new department. the bill contains a number of effective proposals by the members of the committee and is very much a bipartisan product. the miity was particularly interested in defining the important role of the states in working with the new federal department. including provision for informal public hearings on controversial projects administered by the department. the strengthening of the departmental machinery for coordination of the some 60 federal programs having an impact on urban communities operated both within and outside the department and emphasis upon a strong and vital role for the federal housing administration within the department. i believe constructive solutions were reached on points and both the senate and house conferees are to be commended for their determination to forge meaningful new authority for the cabinet secretary. this is a landmark piece of legislation and we look forward to its implementation with hope and interest.
. that thinking went out of american life 30 years ago. we hear in the chamber today echoes of those reverberations. all we have is echoes. one of the most distinguished and outstanding conservatives was the author of the housing bill. which provided for 800.000 units. i refer to the famous taftellenderwagner bill. of which i was a cosponsor in the house. in all the years since. we have  met the standard which senator taft. one of the most distinguished conservatives of our time. was urging was needed by the people in the lowest ecoic level of our country. and was the only way to obtain housing for them. as an inheritor of that tradition. i feel that it is my duty to stand on the floor and urge my colleagues on the republican side to support the concept of such constructive legislation. which is a way of interesting private enterprise to help deal effectively with the housing needs of those who can get it any other way.
i am grateful to the senator for his kind expression in regard to what i am saying. but i point out to the senator that this is hing new. there are thousands upon thousands of housing units in new york city and in other cities built by unions. church groups. and by limited dividend corporations. these organizations have done an outstanding job. under the new york law and the laws of other states incentives are provided. there are two other points that i would like to make in the same connection. this is the first program passed by the congress that has introduced private enterprise into the public housing picture. second. it provides an incentive for the poor family to pull itself out of the doldrums. it would enable them to live in a good place and have the dignity of improving their lot. finally. the program is a modest one. there are 400.000 housing units in new york which we call old law tenements. which were built before the turn of the century. when a country which is resisting communism is analyzed. almost invariably it will be found that housing for the people will give an indication of how the country is going. it is one of the proudest aspects of our free society that we are making so much more progress in housing than has been made behind the iron curtain. because it is a private enterprise in the full tradition of senator taft. i urge that the amendment be rejected. on the issue of whether the actual program ought to fund a study. and that our efforts should be to accelerate this program to the maximum extent. we should  stand by idly and hold it off merely because we are reluctant to put up a modest sum of money which may be required to get it underway. the results of the proposed program would be far ranging. it will be cheaper than building public housing projects. it is socially much more desirable. and it is much more fully in accord with the concept of the author of this program. senator robert taft. i should think it would appeal strongly both to the conservative members. as well as to the liberal members in finding a new way that private industry can be made a part of the effort to deal effectively with the housing needs of those who have been public housing clients. for those reasons. the amendment should be rejected.
. there are two reasons why we should turn down the amendment. the first reason is that the language of the amendment which is in the bill concerning the $12 million is already only 40 percent of what the administration has asked for. therefore. the cut has already been made. the second reason is that the senate has done what the house did  do. namely. legislate for the program by a vote of 45 to 37. thus. my point is addressed to the 45 senators. because the 37 senators probably can be persuaded. but the 45 senators are persuaded that 20.000 units is a fair start. that is what they voted for. therefore. why cut it down and make it half a loaf instead of a whole loaf. any man who sponsored the original housing programand former senator robert a. taft was one of its principal sponsorswould bless us today because at least we are trying to get private enterprise into the program. that is what this is all about. that is what senator taft would have wanted. that is what i want. that is what many other senators want. let us  kill it off aborning. let us do what the committee in its best judgment said was a fair and decent start for which 45 senators have  voted affirmatively.
. there are many fine programs in the appropriation bill and i compliment the senator from rhode island upon his customary skill. fortitude. and eloquence. there is one item in particular which i would like to comment on and which i k will also interest many people living in metropolitan areas near airports. that is on page 13 of the bill and represents $100.000 for the study of relief to homeowners who live in proximity to airports. as this is  in the house bill. i hope that the conferees will study this problem which is of critical importance to the cities and will include these very important funds for the hhfa study authorized by section 1113 of the housing act of 1965. the house banking and currency committee in considering the housing bill ed this problem in some detail in its report on that bill. this is the first time that we have really done anything in the field of airport se abatement through improved methods of housing construction. an english government commission recently recommended exactly this method--of improving soundproofing and other housing construction approaches. this study would also be helpful concerning problems arising from the flight of supersonic aircraft. funds for which are also included in this bill.
madam president. i introduce. for appropriate reference. proposed legislation which is sorely needed to correct inequities in the law governing cooperative housing. in 1961. legislation was enacted to authorize a reduction in premium rates for mortgage insurance for managementtype cooperatives. last year. i strongly supported a bill to provide mutuality for cooperative housing. and this was incorporated in the housing and urban development act of 1965. yet. i am informed that the premiums have  been reduced. and the new mutual fund has  been fully put into effect. the proposed legislation which i introduce today will make the premium reduction mandatory. and will also settle the confusion which exists with regard to some aspects of the mutuality program so that the latter may soon be effectively implemented. the management cooperatives have made an enviable record which is demonstrated by the fact that they have contributed well over $27 million to the fha housing fund. while their defaults have amounted to less than $700.000. their record deserves our immediate attention. since the inception of the insurance program in 1950. the managementtype coops have been paying the standard premium rate for fha mortgage insuranceonehalf of 1 percentand have thus contributed over $27 million. on the theory that good insurance experience deserves a reduction in premiums. the congress in 1961 authorized the fha to reduce the premium to onefourth of 1 percent. the fha has thus far failed to carry out the will of the congress even though the fund is sound beyond any doubt. my first proposal would require the fha to reduce the premium to onefourth of 1 percent as it should have done long ago. last year. the housing act established a separate mutual fund for the management type coops so that their premium payments. administrative costs. and any losses. would be segregated from the general fund. it was also stipulated that when the fund was sufficiently strong. the fha would distribute shares of rebates to the coop owners whose premiums had provided this strength. it was. also stipulated that such disbursements may be paid out until any funds which might be transferred to the management fund from the general fund were repaid. my second proposal would clear up the doubt which has arisen as to whether all initial transfers from the general to the management fund or only subsequent loans made to the management fund must be repaid to the general fund. the bill makes it clear that the intention is that only the subsequent loans need be repaid. further. in order that the management fund reflect the full strength of the coop program. the bill provides that an amount equal to the premiums already paid by the coops minus the administrative expenses will be transferred to the management fund. this amount is over $15.5 million at the present time. finally the second proposal is designed to overcome a key obstacle to the implementation of this mutuality provision. under the present law. the mortgagee or lender has to consent to any transfer of funds from the general fund to the management fund. there is legal basis for this requirement. and in fact it was  required in the case of other funds which were consolidated into the general fund. seventyeight mortgagees have refused to allow such a transfer due to a restriction on the use of fha debentures. the debenture restriction appears an unintended effect of present law and my proposal would remove it. with the restriction removed. the requirement of consent is longer appropriate and would therefore also be removed under my proposal. thus all accounts of managementtype coops will be transferred into the management fund. which the congress established for that purpose. the sole objective of these proposals is to provide equitable treatment for uwners of managementtype coops. where a class of property owners has demonstrated over the years its determination and ability to meet its obligations. they should  be called upon to bear the brunt of the defaults of other classes of propertyholders less heedful of their responsibilities. i ask my colleagues to join with me in securing the early enactment of these two bills. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the bills be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that i may be joined as a cosponsor of s. 2934. the community development district act of 1966. introduced by the senator from louisiana . for himself and other senators. i do this with the permission of the author of the bill.
i can assure the senator that i do  see any such really practical danger in this program. i think this is the first time we have had a chance to get off the rabbittrack of public housing and really make a new effort to do the right thing. i say let us do it reasonably and practicably. instead of in a teenyweeny way. . how much time have i remaining.
. i k of few proposals before the congress this session with greater significance to the state of new york and the entire nation than the demonstration cities act of yet. i would be unrealistic if i did  say at this point that i feel there is a grave danger that the great potential contained in the principle of comprehensive physical and social renewal will  be fulfilled unless certain changes are  made in the measures as introduced. therefore. i submit the following amendments to the demonstration cities proposal: first. to grant express authority for more than one demonstration project in any one city. although i do  personally interpret the bill as written as restricting the program to one per city. i wish to make the applicability clear. each of the boroughs of new york city has sections or neighborhoods needing immediate attention and i do  think that each of these large areaslarger in themselves than most of the other american citiesshould be penalized simply because they are part of the larger municipality of new york city. second. to channel the available funds to the most critical areas. i recommend a more definitive section setting out the eligibility. in particular to require. (a) the secretary to determine that a neighborhood is subject to great ecoic and social pressures and also to require a workable program be submitted by the local communitya similar amendment has been introduced in the house by mr. reuss. of wisconsin-(b) that any demonstration area will contain sufficient housing of low and moderate cost. utilizing to the fullest extent possible housing eligible for rent supplement benefits. (c) maximum opportunities for employing residents of such areas who are unemployed or underemployed. (d) fullest utilization possible of private initiative and enterprise. (e) that housing be made available in such a way so as to allow ecoic integration within the demonstration area. third. to increase the demonstration planning funds. i recommend that the proposed $17 million for fiscal year 1967 be supplemented with funds from the urban renewal program grant authorization.  exceeding 1 percent of that fund in any one year. this would amount to $7.5 million in fiscal 1967 if the urban renewal authorization is retained at $750 million. however. if as i propose the urban renewal authorization is increased to $1 billion. the amount available for demonstration city planning would be $10 million.
. i intro- duce for approprlate reference a bill to amend section 4339 of title 10. united states code. a companion measure was introduced in the house by congressman alexander pirnie who is a member of the board of visitors of the u.s. military academy. the purpose of this bill is to allow those civilian instructors who were hired by the u.s. military academy on the explicit understanding that there was to be charge for their housing to continue their services under the terms of the original contract. if this bill is  enacted. they will retroactively be subject to a 1963 reinterpretation and ruling by the comptroller general which imposed a $1.500 per year charge for housing. while the bill provides relief for those 14 instructors injured by the gao ruling. those hired after the annced change would be required to abide by the new ruling. thus the legislation provides for an eventual termination of the privilege through personnel turer. the bill has the support of the superintendent of the military academy and the department of the army. for the above reasons. i strongly urge passage of the proposed legislation.
madam president. i should like to ask the manager of the bill some questions. i e that certain things have been done about cooperative housing in the bill for which i am very gratified. the proposal picks up a number of the measures i have introduced to deal with the question. as the new york area has a good deal of cooperative housing. i e that one question still remains unresolved. which dates back. as a matter of fact. to when i was on the committee on banking and currency. that is the question of why. withstanding excellent actuarial experience. the mortgage premium in cooperative housing is still onehalf of 1 percent. with the difference of the actuarial figures being actual contributions of some $27 million and losses of several hundred thousand dollars. this would make a material difference to the cooperatives in the costs which are required to be shared by those who occupy cooperative apartments. i should like to ask the senator from maine why provision has been made in this bill which would make that reduction mandatory. and what the general situation surrounding it is at this time.
madam president. i wish to explain this amendment. as follows. this concerns one of the questions i was about to ask the senator from maine. in the state of new yorkand i understand in the states of illis. pennsylvania. massachusetts. and connecticut alsoare many multifamily structures which have been constructed by limited dividend housing corporations. cooperatives. and similar organizations. in new york we have a state program called the mitchell lama program. which makes available money at a much lower rate of interest than is otherwise available in the way of mortgages to cooperatives. and so forth. the rent supplement programi do  k what the committees explanation would behas substantive base for making the distinction and does  allow the rent supplement to extend to structures of this character. in order to qualify them. without in any way compelling the housing authorities to use the rent supplements for this purpose. but just to qualify them legally so that they could be considered for that purposealthough they may  necessarily be includedi have offered this amendment. the question i was about to ask the senator from maine is this: is there any reason why they should  be eligible. they may  get it. they may  find the program applies to them. but at least they ought to be eligible.
it is a fact that we gave the mandate to treat these premises in actuarial experience separately. they have  done it. in 1965 we came to the conclusion that these cooperatives should be considered separately but we did  mandate the reduction on the agency. i want to be fair with the committee. i served on the committee. i wish to serve ice  that on the next housing bill i will move to amend it to mandate the onefourth of 1 percent. we have tried to make it clear to the agency how we felt. we authorized them to keep separate the insurance funds for this program. as the colloquial saying goes. they apparently can take the hint. it seems clear to me that hing is going to happen unless congress mandates it. a large prairie fire can be lit among the coops. when we have before us the next housing bill. whenever that may beand it may  be too far off it will be my intention to move to mandate the onefourth of 1 percent premium. this is  a satisfactory way to handle the matter. the agency should have flexibility. but the agency misused its flexibility to cause its inflexibility in defiance of the views of congress. i do  think that that is playing the game. so most reluctantly i will make an effort to make them do it. the experience has been exemplary. if. having expressed our will. we are  going to reward people who have had such excellent experience with mortgage insurance. we are  rewarding that kind of experience and success. there is alternative left. i hope that the committee will face the fha with this situation. we have done it before but i must tell the senator that i think that reasonable patience isabout at an end and the matter has to be brought to a showdown. i can assure the senator that i am going to do everything that i can to bring it to a showdown here and in the other body. i hope the committee will make that clear if they go to the fha. in the hope that they may handle the matter much more wisely than they have. by  responding to what was a very clear expression of congressional will a year ago.
on the rent supplement issue may i point out that the amendment that i have sent to the desk in way increases or changes all conditions of the rent supplement. it makes additional multifamily structures available for that kind of treatment as the administration decides is desirable. it seems to me that to make more housing available as a matter of choice for the program is very constructive and in way jeopardizes or embarrasses the program. on the contrary it gives the program a greater opportunity to do its job. if it is taken to conference and bugs are found in it i will understand if it can be done. but as far as i k it is a very simple mechanical matter of broadening the opportunity for housing to which rent supplements will be applied. there are many such structures in my state and in the various other states i mentioned earlier. there is reason in logic why they should be excluded from the operation of the program. if for other reasons of criteria they could properly qualify. madam president. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
like so many of the housing authorizations. this is a borrowing proposition. the money is borrowed from the treasury through the hud and loaned to the institutions. and the institutions repay on varying terms. under what is equivalent to a mortgage. the amendment fits into the statutory scheme. the only part of the present statutory scheme that i do  carry out in the amendment is the 3percent fixedinterest rate provided by law. because i feel that under present circumstances. we can lend money at that rate. so my amendment specifically calls for a higher rate of interest on these particular resources. going up to almost 5 percent. by reason of the fact that money is at such high cost right .
. it is the aim of my amendment to give the administrator a little more flexibility in the administration of what would  be a very much smaller amount than was originally contemplated by the bill. we did the same thing in urban renewal in 1965 under similar circumstances when we gave the secretary of housing and urban development the right to use his discretion if and when he thought a project was of such importance as to require a somewhat larger portion than the 12.5percent state limitation. he could do so under those circumstances within the limitation of $100 million under urban renewal. the proposal i make would extend to the secretary. again the secretary of housing and urban development. the right to exercise a similar amount of discretion up to an aggregate amount of $50 million. the proposal does  increase the authorization or change anything about the bill except to give the secretary some added discretion in respect of the allocation to individual states within a maximum limitation in cases in which he feels that a project is of such importance and of such value as to justify it. this would  absolutely latch the present 12.5 limitation. as the amount involved  is very considerably smaller. by onethird. than what the committee contemplated. it seems to me that it is an intelligent thing to do. to try to use the money to the greatest advantage
i had intended to seek the same proviso with respect to this bill which we worked out the other day on aher housing bill relating to areas which have used up or are close to using up their allowable percentage. in view of the fact that the percentage is fixed at 15 percent. instead of 121/2 percent. i would be willing to see what the experience will be with it in this shape. to see whether we can live with it without this proviso. under the circumstances.
 this amendment is precisely the same as the provision in the house bill. which was  carried in the senate bill. the purpose is to authorize $100.000 for the purpose of implementing a section of the housing act which we adopted in 1965 regarding what can be done about insulating homes which are located near airports relating to se from aircraft. at that time. the $100.000 required was  included in the supplemental appropriation bill. the senator from massachusetts said. when the appropriation bill came back from conference. that the amount w. -  included because it was thought the federal aviation agency had egh money to do the job. it developed that while the federal aviation agency had the resources. it was interested only in a study of the ses made by aircraft as they approached airports or se within the aircraft. but was  concerned with the se as it affected housing. therefore. since that amount of time has elapsed. it appears that the purpose sought to be accomplished should be done in a housing bill. it was provided for in a section of the housing act of 1965. it may be that the department of housing and urban development can "scrounge" money egh to complete the study. perhaps that can be done. but it is an irregular process. since there has been a concentration of jet airplanes. the administration is interested in the field of se. and the amount of $100.000 was included in the house bill. from a practical basis. and so long as it is found necessitous. i hope we can assure that it will be provided for by adopting the amendment to the pending bill.
. for congress to say "well. if they want to riot. we are  going to do anything about it until they quit." it is the mission of government  to have to rely upon policemen and the national guard. it is the mission of government to do justice. and to try to alleviate the causes which make people riot. while at the same time sternly and rigorously putting down the riots. third. existing civil rights laws should be enforced conscientiously and firmly. and sufficient appropriations should be made available for these activities. i have in mind  only the justice department. but also the department of health. education. and welfarewhich has a considerable responsibilitythe equal employment opportunity commission and the civil rights commission. let me say to these agencies. make mistake about it: strict enforcement of these laws will be supported vigorously in congress and laxity will be criticized and condemned.  condoned. fourth. the community relations service should organize meetings in key tension areas between the negro community and officials at all levels of government. the defeat of this measure could cause grave trouble and resentment in negro communities across the country. every effort should be made to reassure these citizens that the federal government has  turned its back on their petition for the redress of grievances. it should be explained that a majority of the senate favored this bill. i think they will show again today that they favor it. and will fight again next year to secure its passage. and revise rule xxii so that we do  find ourselves in this situation again. existing programs of both state and federal governmentand many states have far more effective housing laws than this bill would have provided including my own state of new york. should be publicized. and assistance given to those who have such laws available. state human relations commissions and the private national committee against discrimination in housing should take a particularly active role in this area.
. along with many others. i have become increasingly distressed at the critical proportions of the inadequacy of decent. safe. and sanitary lowincome housing in our urban areas. and at the prospects of improving this situation under present programs. i believe that if we are to make truly appreciable progress in eliminating the urban slum. we are going to have to start with the structures that are already there. we are going to have to make maximum use of rehabilitation. and we are going to have to give incentives to the owners of these buildings themselves to make the first effort. we must also provide local housing authorities and city governments with financial and taxing techniques to grealy increase their efforts in rehabilitation. accordingly. i hope that the series of urban rehabilitation and tax incentive proposals i introduce today will act as a catalyst for the essential concerted action by federal. state. and local governments and private enterprise to expedite the job of rebuilding the central cities and give this emous task a greater chance of success. the plain facts are that all the federal and state programs  in existence to provide low- and middleincome housing have  been able to make an appreciable dent in the hardcore problem of the urban ghetto. these programs should continue. of course. what i am proposing  is that we use modern financial and taxing techniques to enlist the entire community in this fight. which should be the concern of the entire community. the census of housing in 1960 indicated that in urban areas 4.3 million units were considered substandardor 10.5 percent of the entire inventory. in new york city. for example. local estimates are that in 1965 there were still 43.000 old law tenements built prior to 1901. containing approximately 950.000 persons. about as many persons live in this substandard housing as live in the entire city of baltimore. more than 11.000 aging one- and twofamily homes used  for multifamily purposes are considered to be in an advanced state of deterioration by the new york city building department. the proposals introduced today. taken together. place what i believe to be the proper shared responsibility on the federal government. the localities. and the private sector. it is clear to me that a proper mix of all three is needed to do the job. for example. with regard to the bond guarantee program. the federal government adds its prestige and financial support to the local public agency which administers the program best suited to the community. and the private sector gets the job done to the eventual benefit of the many low income persons throughout the country who are denied the very essentials of decent housing. there is strong precedent for the concept of shared responsibility throughout existing housing legislation. particularly the congressional declaration of national housing policy in the housing act of 1949. which states: the policy to be followed in attaining the national housing objective shall be: (1) private enterprise shall be encouraged to serve as large a part of the total need as it can. (2) governmental assistance shall be utilized where feasible to enable private enterprise to serve more of the total need. (3) appropriate local public bodies shall be encouraged and assisted to undertake positive programs of encouraging and assisting the development of wellplanned. integrated residential neighborhoods. the development and redevelopment of communities. and the production. at lower costs. of housing of sound standards of design. construction. livability. and size for adequate family life. it is just this balance of responsibility which i hope to foster in this and other proposals which i will later introduce. the bills seek to strengthen the hand of local government. the use of local governmental agencies in the bond plan has the merit of working within the confines of existing and newly created state authorities rather than bypassing them through exclusively federal programs. and the guarantee approach will stimulate the sale of local bonds. the guarantee plan will strengthen local housing agencies where they already exist and act as an incentive for their creation where they are   in existence. the fast depreciation writeoff will contribute to the making of a more livable city and undoubtedly add to property valuations. in the event that the city finds itself in the position of owning property as the result of code enforcement. the federal government will lend up to twothirds of the cost of rehabilitation of substandard residential property for use by lowincome families. thus. cities will be encouraged to implement strong code enforcement programs. the cities also will be more likely to grant certain tax abatement on lowincome housing. king that the federal government will bear half the burden. this set of proposals places the responsibilities clearly on the line for all concerned. if the federal government keeps its promise through bond guarantee. tax incentive. and the advance programs. then the responsibility will be on those at the local levelboth the municipality and the private citizento do the job of remodeling many parts of our cities into places where all people will take pride in living. i believe that the series of proposalscoupled with improved techogical advances in speeding up the rehabilitation process--can make the greatest contribution toward the improvement of many of our slums and ghettos.
. i offer these proposals with great seriousness. because of my deep conviction. based on hearings and everything else that has happened. that we can possibly. in time. get at the problem of slums and ghettoes and give the people in those areas decent housing without engaging in a massive program of reation and rehabilitation. we can do this in the most ecoic way by interesting private enterprise in it. i should like to point out a very important aspect of this particular matter. namely. that it is best to have local government as well as private enterprise in such programs. because local government is given a premium. and such a program makes local government a key element in it. finally. such a program ties in very closely with the antipoverty program. because it will enable us to set up social agencies to help the actual tenants who are rehoused in rehabilitated housing. they will also redirect the way in which they take care of the housing. and in the training of themselves and in the way they deal with their families. in the general hopefulness of this approach in dealing with housing in slums and ghettoes. together with the antipoverty program. we may really have a massive improvement in the situation of the poor in this country.
. i call the attention of the senate to an extraordinary effort at rehabilitation of slum property undertaken in new york. called "instant rehabilitation." which took place in 48 hours. and in which the insides of an apartment in a typically beaten up slum dwelling were torn out and new insides installed. my wife was present at the ceremonies. and from her report and press reports it seems to me a most auspicious experiment in rehabilitation which would materially accelerate the attack upon slums and: solve. many other problems. like relocation costs. i ask unanimous consent. that -news stories from the new york times and the new york daily news on this subject may be made a part of my remarks. there being objection. the articles were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: [from the new york times. apr. -14. 1967]
. the new york times of july 8 published a story which should be of interest to legislators and realtors throughout the country. the article concerns a recent statement by john i. hasselblad. a director of the national association of real estate boards who. 2 years ago. was a sincere and ardent foe of the proposed colorado fair housing law. that law was enacted over the protests of mr. hasselblad and many members of the industry. but he  declares that such laws are necessary throughout the nation "if we are going to solve this problem of human relations in housing." furthermore. mr. hasselblad finds. "the real estate industry has  been hurt by the law" and the extent of public acceptance is "amazing." he destroys the myth that property values deteriorate when miity groups move into a neighborhood and urges his colleagues in other states to support the passage of fair housing laws. mr. hasselblads statement certainly encourages those of us who have been working for a national fair housing law and. hopefully. will go a long way toward eliminating the opposition of the real estate industry to such a federal law. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the times article be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from wisconsin be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend title iv of the housing act of 1950 to authorize annual grants to reduce the cost of private borrowing by educational institutions as an alternative form of assistance to the direct college housing loans presently provided for.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from idaho be added as a cosponsor of the bill to amend title iv of the housing act of 1950 to authorize annual grants to reduce the cost of private borrowing by educational institutions as an alternative form of assistance to the direct college housing loans presently provided for.
. i was  present in the chamber when the senator from montana finished his speech. i did learn of what he had to say. i join my colleague from alabama in the deep feeling that this is the right position for us to take. it is nice to hear all of the fine words about the basic causes of riots and the various things we intend to do to eliminate the riots and the violence. however. we must actually perform. i think the majority leader has been of great assistance to all of us in laying out in an authoritative way some of the things that we needed to bring about reform. it is most helpful and extremely gratifying that the chairman of the committee on banking and currency and of its housing subcommittee should have taken a parallel attitude. i k senator sparkmans record in this field for a very long timeindeed. right back to the taftellender housing bill. with respect to which he was a stalwart figure. i wish to express what i k is the satisfaction of the people of cities everywhere to have two such distinguished senators. and such important and powerful senators in this field. rise today in order to support what people like myself k we simply must do. i thank the senator from alabama and the majority leader for their fine statements of today and for their dedication to what i k to be one of the really critical reasons for the posture in which we have found ourselves in a number of the big cities this summer.
. the letter was written by the secretary of housing and urban development. and a separate letter was addressed to each of us. for the purpose of the record. may the record show that this is the letter addressed to me.
i can see it under all the programs we have. except that we are making progress. we are trying to make dents in the problem. we are trying to make some progress. if the senator talks about discrimination. if i have 64 clients. as compared with one for whom we can get a housing unit. the 64 are discriminated against. but we are doing the best we can. we want to go forward.
. last year an amendment which i sponsored to relieve the overwhelming load of prospective applications for college housing was passed by a rollcall vote of this body only to be dropped in conference. i am informed that . a year later. the situation is worse. the $300 million directloan program has failed completely to keep up with demand. under existing law. $300 million in direct loans are available from the federal government at 3 percent interest rate to colleges across the country for building new dormitory facilities. the present amount fails to even come close to meeting current needs. in january 1966. the department of housing and urban development stopped accepting loan applications because the backlog was over $700 millionmore than twice surpassing the funds available. the department was unable to reopen its doors until this past april and then only for 30 days. as of this morning. hud is still  accepting applications. it is almost 2 years since the january 1966 date when hud stopped taking applications with the exception of a brief 30day period. i think this is ample proof that the existing program is totally dead. this insufficiency may well have serious effects on our educational capabilities in the future. together with the distinguished senior senator from wisconsin . who has cosponsored s. 2000 and whose assistance in the committee has been invaluable. letters were sent to colleges across the nation to solicit their views of the proposal and to find out their expected needs for housing. over 150 responses have come in and with almost exceptions. the colleges supported the enactment of s. 2000. i have also received unsolicited responses from individuals interested in education across the country and even from the distinguished gover of the state of delaware. charles l. terry. jr. the proposal also. received the endorsement of the american council on education and -the national association of state universities and landgrant colleges. who testified before the housing subcommittee of the banking and currency committee. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at this point some responses from across the country. i hope members of the senate will read these letters carefully. senator proxmire placed in the record last wednesday a number of other responses. this proposal is really a new ination in financing quasipublic and public facilities which can have emous implications for the future of all such financing.
. i regretted very much that the proposed omnibus housing act of 1967 which is  on the calendar. was  acted upon by the senate during this session. i had intended to introduce several amendments to the bill. however. since there is some question as to whether the proposal will be taken up as it presently is written. i have instead decided to introduce several of my amendments as individual bills at this time. if s. 2700 should be brought to the floor as reported. i would then submit these proposals as amendments to that bill as well as several other amendments.
. let us remember where there are legitimate complaints and escape from punishment by bombers and murderers. by reason of the fact that states are passive or lend themselves to injustice. the effort to answer such complaints becomes a critical factor in dealing with the climate in a community which allows killings and bombings which we have seen in so many cities in the united states. even with respect to the network of civil rights laws. it is very well kn that they are by means as yet complete. there cries out also for action a federal law against discrimination in housing which denies dignity and opportunity to so many americans only because they are negroes. it is also well kn that we have to have an adequate federal law to deal with discrimination and denial of opportunity in employment. which is the case in a good many states. there is such a law in a good many states. we have something on the federal books. but  an effective system of laws.
i can answer the senator on the question of better housing and better schools by saying that if the negro is free from intimidation and coercion. either directly upon him or upon those who would work for him and with him. then he has a greater opportunity for the redress at grievances by concerted action. through the ballot. through assembly. through the development of ideas and financing of projects. and through better educational opportunity. which will contribute. to some extent. by providing freedom of movement. i believe the bill will make a contribution. i was the first person to say that this is  decisive in that respect but it will make a contribution.
. my only purpose in rising is to point out that cloture would do hing but free our hands to act. amendments must be acted on. even the hart bill must be acted on. the housing measure must be tabled. or it can be amended. of course. all amendments which are on the desk qualify. that limits the field very materially. i can testify to my colleagues personally. as the senator from qregon has said. that if we do  act favorably at this time. our actions will have the most deleterious effect imaginable. we will be showing to the world that our hands are tied and we can act. then zealot extremists can say: "what is the use. they can even act. let alone act fully and effectively." i hope very much that cloture will be voted.
. the country had better take e. in such times of grave emergency. that a majority. after full. fair. and free debate. can be frustrated from doing what is elementary justice for the country. this could be a very. very dangerous thing at this time. and those who have  supported us. i think. had better think about that matter very. very seriously. i am satisfied that we can contrive a housing measure which will get the necessary support. including cloture. by virtue of the showing we have made on this vote. which i consider to be a real victory. considering the nature of the coverage of the discriminationinhousing amendment. i am prepared. with my colleagues. to move forward vigorously to effect the desired result. as we said before. the cloture vote has been taken. we are  stiff necked. we are confident that we can find means of accommodating our proposal to satisfy those of reasonable view so that we may seek to effect some changes in the housing package to bring us within the required goal. however. more than anything else. let me emphasize that it has always been said. and it is again attested to. that if a majority of the senate is really determined upon something. it can effect it. and we shall continue to try to do that .
in a little while we shall undoubtedly be acting. as the majority leader has already given ice. on a motion to table the housing amendment offered by the senator from minnesota and the senator from massachusetts . it should be clear to every senator precisely what we are voting on. and precisely what support this issue has. first. let us remember. . that a fair housing bill has passed the house of representatives. which we never acted on. so the argument that it will  get by the other body is  valid. second. let us understand very clearly that the terms of the particular housing amendment before us. as every senator ksand rightlywill  be the terms upon which we finally vote. the housing amendment before us will. i have doubt. be shaped and guided by what is felt in conscience to be correct. and by whatever is necessary in order to win the necessary support in the senate. the important thing. therefore. to bear in mind in voting on the motion to table. is that this is an expression of the sentiment of the senate as to whether it wants any fair housing provision in this civil rights bill. let us understand that very clearly. does the senate want any fair housing provision in the bill. i strongly urge that the senate should express itself as desiring some fair housing provision. for this reason: as one who. i believe. has a right to speak  only with feeling but with some degree of experience of slums and ghettos. i remind the senate that the concept we are trying to get across before the long hot summer is that we are endeavoring to do. in every way open to us. justice. which has too long been deferred. more than a century in this country. in terms of equal opportunity. it is obvious to anyone who sets foot in harlem. bedfordstuyvesant. or watts. or any such area one chooses to visit: the first thing that assails us is the dilapidation of the housing. and that is likewise the first thing that assails the negro or member of any other miity group who lives there. this is what he suffers under. this is one of his priority gripes.
by permitting him to move elsewhere. we set a premium upon dignity. and drive home the lesson that if you show initiative. are lively. do a job well. and learn a trade. you get something for it. and one coin that is universally understandable is the ability to get out from under dilapidation. away from the houses with empty eyes or broken windows. which is what they are. and away from the littered courtyards. the littered streets. and the general air .of depreciation which. unhappily for all of us. except where it has been broken here and there by urban renewal. by public housing. or by middleincome housing. represents the total antithesis of living which one sees in the slums. so i ask the senate. in voting. to bear in mind that we are voting on the principle. shall there be something on fair housing included in this bill. in that regard. . urging that we give favorable attention to the fair housing provision. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record.
i ask the senator from minnesota. as one of the authors of the amendment. is it fair to say that the altered and reduced version will be a substantial alteration and reduction. that we have in mind coming to an approximation with the house bill. which has already passed the house. and that what we are hoping for. from our fellow senators today. is a favorable vote on the principle that there shall be something. in this bill with relation to open housing. rather than that the amendment as originally offered should stand or fall solely as a work of perfection on the fair housing issue.
. i wish the senator had been in the chamber this morning when the colloquy between senator mondale and myselfhe is the author of the amendment. together with senator brookemade very- clear that the sponsors intended to lay down before the cloture vote on monday a different and what senator mondale called a reduced version of this housing amendment. i wouldsay to the senator from iowa that i am sure that the authors of the amendment would be very pleased to have this consultation and the senators views as to how he feels it should be changed.
. just so that the senate may be informed and so that we do  have any slips at the last minute. i think it is fair to say that i shall vote for the tabling motion. it is well to e that it is  as strong a fair housing measure as we would like to get. however. in my judgment. this is the extent of the legislative achievement possible within the framework of the times and the legislative situation we face in the senate. i have beeri a party to it. and i am proud to have been. i think it is an excellent beginning to what we are seeking to effect. the senator from michigan and i will be in the odd position of voting to table the measure that we dearly want to get enacted into law. i feel that this fact must be made kn to our colleagues and to the whole world. however. this is the way that it must be done. we will shed a little blood this aftern and get it done. i think it is important that the senate understand this insofar as the pending motion is concerned.
 it is very important. first. that we understand the limitations of this amendment. i am  for it. and i am going to vote "nay." but i think it is critically important. whatever the senate does. that we k what we are doing. as i understand it. this language would  apply to a private individual owner. it would  apply if that owner sought to sell property covered by the proviso to a broker or agent after december 31. 1969. it would also  apply if that particular owner was in the real estate business. as defined in subsection (c) of this very same section. on page 10. from line 10 to page 11. line 2. finally. it would  apply unless it were a bona fide owner. a mal convenience proposition. this is what the senator is trying to confine it to. so there are three distinct exceptions: selling through a broker or dealer. a person being in the real estate business himself. which disqualifies him as a person. and the other exception to which i have referred. we worked with the senator from west virginia . trying very hard to work out something. it is my definite view that we have so eroded this section and so reduced its coverage that to have an openended proposition. the end of which ody can anticipate. what we are really doing is opening aher door. a way out of the bill other than the terms of it already agreed on with senator dirksen. in my judgment. this is an openended thing. the end of which i can see  can any of us. the senator from west virginia can argue that it is going to have a very narrow reach and that only a few people might be inconvenienced. but we just do  k. under the circumstances of having the bill materially cut down anyhow. i deeply feel that if we want some kind of representative openhousing statute. we have to vote ""
. some weeks ago i described in these pages the activities of the niagara mohawk power corp. in providing technical assistance to the communities of new york state applying for and conducting urban renewal projects. on its own initiative. niagara mohawk had put together a set of detailed materials and a community development services group to help the communities it serves to take advantage of this federal program. this kind of concern for the development and ecoic stability of its market area makes sound business sense and stems. as well. from important moral and social motivations. niagara mohawk has  spearheaded aher business effort. this time in the syracuse area. to establish a syracuse community development housing corporation. this corporation would be funded by private loans from the corporations involved and would also receive grants from a variety of other private sources. once again. the idea is for business to come together to assist the community through the provision of seed money and technical assistance to take advantage of important federal programs. the proposed corporation would be particularly active in aiding profit housing sponsors seeking funds under the fha 221 (d) (3) program. i ask unanimous consent that an article describing this new private industry effort. published in the syracuse post standard of february 14. 1968. be printed in the record.
. is the prime piece of legislation dealing with the kerner commissions report. there are other parts of the program involved in the housing bill which will be before us soon. there are other parts of the program involved in the anticrime bill. which will also be before us soon. the senator from massachusetts and the senator from oklahoma . who have been members of that commission. are at work on other aspects of implementation.
. pursuant to my statement to the senator from alabama. having stated the case. i would be prepared to withdraw this amendment. provided he can give me the following assurances: first. that the committee. if it is at all practicable. will give consideration to this question before the housing bill is reported or as a portion of any other bill upon which it would be a suitable amendment. second. if that should prove to be impossible. that the senator will cause the committee staff to study this particular amendment and its implications. and obtain a report on it from the appropriate department of the federal government. so that when i do raise this matter as an amendment to the housing bill. the argument can and will  be made that this is a matter of first impression. and that the committee is  prepared to deal with it. . with such assurance. i would certainly wish to accommodate the senator from alabama and the senator from utah . with both of whom i have worked so closely for so long. and will  press the amendment on this bill.
. i ask unanimous consent that this exchange of correspondence with the secretaries of housing and urban development and transportation be inserted in the record. in addition. i urge the secretaries of housing and urban development and transportation to set a deadline for the development of these guidelines and arrangements and to make public and to submit a report of such criteria to the government operations committee of each house of the congress. in this manner. the congress would maintain its oversight role and could seek to insure that this reorganization is fully carried out so as to achieve the stated objectives of federal policy. the criteria. once publicly disclosed. would serve to guide future actions and operations of the departments of housing and urban development and transportation in planning and developing urban transportation systems.
. just one further statement in behalf of myself. senator tower. in a sense. succeeded me on the committee. and i can refrain from telling him with what satisfaction i have seen him develop as a leader on the committee. many think of him as a conservative. but. like the late great senator taft of ohio. he has grasped and acted upon the problem of housing in a really unparalleled way of statesmanship. and i heartily join the senator from wisconsin in ing that fact.
. is the senator  contemplating extending the provision to cover riottorn areas. i had an amendment to the bill containing a provision along the same line. i understand that it was involved in quite a controversy yesterday when i was. unfortunately.  present on the floor. however. because i am so anxious to see a housing bill passed. i was  going to raise the matter within this context. in view of the fact that the senator has related this measure to the sba. i should like to clear up the matter.
s commission on civil disorders. which i endorse. this would be the least costly. it is all too apparent that because of the present budgetary crisis. as shown in the attitude of the congress. implementation of most of the commissions recommendations will  be possible this year. at least. but s. 3465 is one almost ost measure which can and should be adopted . i therefore urge the majority leader to call up this bill as soon as possible. and preferably next week. if he can do it. in any case. i point. with the hope that it receives the attention which it deserves. to the fact that we should  be intimidated in respect to this bill by threats of a filibuster. any more than we were earlier this year in respect to the fair housing legislation.
i thank the senator. my next question is this: is it the chairmans understanding that the department of transportation will. with the department of housing and urban development. insure that comprehensive planning exists in a particular urban area. and that such planning is adequate. prior to the approval of a federalaid urban highway.
. this is a matter of deep interest to the cities. i represent the largest of our cities. other senators represent the others. housing is a critical and integral part of what we are trying to do to improve conditions in the slums and ghettos of america. which are causing such concern to all our people. we had quite a goaround about this matter in the committee. i thought that the figure which had been settled upon represented a reasonable meeting of the minds. and though i. like the senator from washington. fought for and voted for $1.400 million. and i am rather disheartened by the fact that the $1.300 million. which i thought represented a reasonable consensus of opinion. has  proved agreeable to all the committee members. i agree that senator magnusons judgment is probably correct. and that wheit we get into figures of this magnitude. it is difficult to hold a bill in balance. and there are other items of vital importance to the cities which we shall come to in due course. i believe it would probably be unwise. much as i differ with the senator from colorado. to challenge the judgment of the chairman on this particular item. considering the percentage of the $1.300 million which is involved. much as i deprecate the reduction. therefore. i personally will accept .the judgment of the chairman.
has  the senator found that. of all the housing programs. this is the most popular with mayors. who have the heat on their backs every day. that this is the one they think can do the most for their city.
so that the only precedent set is that they  have the power in treasury securities. and  it is being opened up to the guarantees of housing obligations. and whether it is opened further than that is up to congress.
it is a very creative bill. a lot more can be done than is being done in respect of housing in the core cities of the country. but i do think that a very important amount of progress is being made here. the senator and i have discussed this before when i was a member of the committee on banking and currency. this time. the concentration was upon the new ownership policy. which i think is very commendable and displays real initiative and the techniques such as underwriting the interest rate on which the senator accommodated me. it was my own contribution on college housing. i might tell the senator that we  have such a provision in the bill for teaching facilities in the colleges. we also have such a provision in the hospital modernization bill. it is a very important breakthrough. and the senate committee gave it the legitimacy which is  carrying it into other fields. i suggest to the senatorand of course. i am with him on confirming the reportthe possibility of very carefully reviewing the whole reation question. and whatever may be the arguments of the bulldozer versus the reatorand that question rages in the city of new york very extensively because the mayor and the gover. for example. are  of the same mind on the questioni think that a tremendous amount of the housing stock can be consistently saved. even with neighborhood planning. we are  installing. for example. in a very congested part of new york. in the bedfordstuyvesant park section. a linear park which would break up the traditional sidewalk concept. i hope the senator next year could give some consideration to reation on the neighborhood basis structure. it is clear that in many areas. by a tremendous acceleration of the whole problem of housing for the people of slums and ghettos. additional advantages might be obtained through reation. a good deal of housing stock in some areas has to come down. there is way out of that. however. much of the housing stock could be preserved with new techniques and with research. i think many areas can be dealt with so there will  be the traditional box pattern. but the houses will be merged into a good pattern. consistent with reation. i hope the senator will keep that in mind.
. the senator may remember that we had an amendment agreed to. again when i was a member of the committee. i think it was my amendment. i worked it out with former senator paul douglas of illis. the amendment dealt with conditions of code enforcement and code writing. and we conditioned a certain amount of very important assistance to communities in the housing field upon their engaging in the code program. i think it would be very useful to congress if. in the exercise of legislative oversight. the staff might work up the information. we deferred its applicability for several years.
. we have long spoken of the urgent need to fight air pollution but  until the last few years have we seen any significant legislation in that direction. with the clean air act and the air quality act of 1967 we have made tremendous strides in that fight. the emous size of the problem demands continued legislative action though and the legislative oversight of those agencies which control this hazard. certainly. we can treat air pollution as an isolated problem. we must recognize the interrelationship of the environmental problems and treat them accordingly. the laws that we promulgate and. the regulations by which the agencies abide must ensure a coordinated development of the structure in which we live. federal. state. and local governments must provide positive incentives and the necessary direction to achieve our unified environmental objectives. the planning and development of our cities is so multifaceted that coordination of all facets is essential. air. water. and se pollution. for example. must be considered when developing a transportation network or a complex of housing projects. i am particularly concerned about the interrelationship of public housing and the problems of air pollution. with this in mind. i wrote. on december 10. 1968. to the then secretary of housing and urban development. robert c. weaver. expressing my concern and requesting a report on the issue of federally aided housing projects in areas of high pollution. secretary george romney. responding to that letter. has informed me thatall programs within the department of housing and urban development must comply with any appropriate local codes and ordinances. these local regulations frequently include standards designed to deal with conditions of air pollution. with particular regard to lowrent public housing. when local requirements permit lower standards than those required by the low rent housing manual. the manuals criteria are applied. i am pleased that such efforts are being made to provide constructive coordination of our overall environmental goals. i ask unanimous consent that this letter from secretary george romney. which clearly indicates this coordination. be printed in the record.
. the committee on federal legislation. of the new york state bar association. has just issued in its bulletin a review of selected issues before the 90th congress expected to arise in the 91st congress. the bulletin contains an analysis of such issues as law enforcement. equal opportunities in housing and education. and the process of political change. as well as the role of the bar in promoting citizen participation in lawmaking. i ask unanimous consent that the bulletin be printed in the record.
 from lists submitted by the national academy of sciences and the national academy of engineering. the directors will be selected so as to represent a wide variety of interests throughout the building industry and the national academies will advise and assist establishing the institute. among the powers and duties of the p::oposed national institute of building siences would be to develop and publish standards affecting all building materials. to develop and publish standards for use in iccal building codes. to promote and coordinate tests and studies of new building produ..ts and construction techniques. to provide research and technical services with respect to such materials and techniques. and. to ar:semble and coordinate to the extent practicable all present activities in this area. the bill i introduce would authorize a $5 million federal appropriation for each of the first 5 years of operation of the institute. after that. it is hoped that the institute will be largely selfsupporting through fees and grants. although sufficient federal funds are authorized to permit its operations to continue. the need for such an authoritative national source of applied research in housing has been recognized by such groups as the american institute of architects and the council of housing producers. it is recognized that the fragmentation in the housing industryincluding the fragmentation caused by the multitude of differing local building codes and the differences in their applicationmust  be allowed to obstruct the development of new techogies and a mass market for the construction of lowcost housing and must  be allowed to defeat the national housing goals. moreover. i believe that the establishment of this institute can be of assistance to the current commitment of the department of housing and urban development to promote the development and institution of new lowcost housing techogies. s. 2368 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
. on october 14. i introduced s. 3025. the urban land improvement and housing assistance act of 1969. the bill was cosponsored by the senator from michigan and the senator from pennsylvania . in the course of introducing the bill. i ed that the housing crisis is particularly serious in our central cities. where the available land is most limited and most expensive. etheless. the poor are effectively locked into a decaying innercity housing stock through fragmented. outmoded. and restrictive suburban zoning ordinances. in an article published recently in the national observer. mark r. ard ed that the greatest barrier to lowand moderateincome housing in the suburbs is municipal finance. mr. ard writes: the plain fact is that under present tax policy it is unprofitable for municipalities to welcome lowcost or highdensity housing for large families. in his article. mr. ard calls for incentives to the suburbs to make lowcost housing opportunities available. the urban land improvement and housing assistance act of 1969. which i introduced with senators hart and scott. would encourage states and localities to reform their laws and institutions and to assist them in overcoming obsolescence and fragmentation in zoning. taxing. and building standards. this would be done through federal incentivessupplementary grants for those impacted local services which would be affected by more intensive land use and expanded lowcost housing. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record. l i invite attention also to an article on "new towns." written by edmund b. lambeth. and published in the most recent issue of washington monthly. mr. lambeth es the inadequacy of presk ent legislation in this area and emphasizes the role that new town development could play in relieving the pressures on the central cities and directing urban growth. s. 3025 would respond to this challenge by authorizing a program of federal assistance and loans to states s for the establishment of landdevelop- ment agencies. such a program. if eni acted. would go far to giving government. n at all levels. the tools needed to implem ment a national urban growth policy. r i ask unanimous consent that the arr ticle be printed in the record. i there being objection. the articles .f were ordered to be printed in the recoad. r as follows: [from the national observer. oct. 20. 1969]
. on ember 6 and 7. 1969. the committee on housing and urban development of the new york state senate held hearings on the housing crisis in new york city. these hearings were chaired by state senator roy goodman. although i was unable to testify personally before senator goodmans committee. i did prepare a statement for those hearings. which i submitted for the record. because i believe that the housing problems of the nations largest city are indicative of the emous crisis which the nation faces in this sector of the ecoy. i ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the record.
. because i have had direct experience with efforts concerning housing in urban areas. especially with every major city in new york. i realize what this amendment means. the very base upon which the whole housing effort rests is the availability of urban renewal money. because. literally. before anything can be built there must be land to put it on. this appropriation covers both the urban renewal program and the neighborhood development program. with the funds subject to allocation by the secretary of housing and urban development. but unless you have the basis. unless you have the platform upon which to put housing. neither of these programs will have a chance to operate. i am the first to hail the tremendous contribution which is being made to the development of the cities by the independent offices subcommittee with the approval of the appropriations committee. dealing with the model cities programs. with the provisions of sections 235 and 236. with the very imaginative home ownership programs and low rent programs. with the rent supplement program and so forth. all of this is splendid. but i should like to point out that you still have to have a platform upon which to put these programs. and it is these urban renewal funds which give you the platform. i think we have in my state as imaginative a unit for the purpose of trying to develop the housing picture and deal with the housing problem in the cities as
. i hope very much that the committee will consider very seriously the acceptance of my amendment. the bill itself gives certain special consideration to housing erected under special federal programs for low- and moderateincome families. through a tax on sale incentive to the sale of such projects to participating tenants or profit entities. the amendment i offer would extend the same treatment to housing projects constructed under state and local laws similar to the federal programs. we have such a program in new york. financed by state bond issues. combined with local tax abatement. there are similar programs in massachusetts. connecticut. new jersey. michigan. and illis. the criteria of the amendment are sharp egh so that the incentive would  be available in projects other than those contemplated by the provisions which the committee has already made part of the bill. (the amendment reads as follows:) on page 536. line 12. delete line 12 through and including page 537. line 8. and insert in lieu thereof the following: "(1) qualified housing projectthe term qualified housing project means a project to provide rental or cooperative housing for lower income families"(a) with respect to which a mortgage is insured under sections 221(d) (3) and 236 of the national housing act or is financed under similar provisions of state and local laws. and "(b) with respect to which the owner is. under such sections. provisions or regulations issued thereunder"(1) limited as to rate of return on his investment in the project. and "(ii) limited as to rental or occupancy charges for units in the project. "provided. that with the respect to housing projects financed and constructed under similar provisions of state and local laws and secretary of housing and urban development shall certify that such projects are qualified under the terms of the definition contained in this subsection. "(2) approved dispositionthe term approved disposition means a sale or other disposition of a qualified housing project to the tenants or occupants of units in such project. or to a cooperative or other profit organization formed solely for the benefit of such tenants or occupants. which sale or disposition is approved by the secretary of housing and urban development under sections 211(d) (3) and 236 of the national housing act or regulations issued under such sections or is approved by appropriate state or local public agencies under similar provisions of state and local laws or regulations issued under such law."
. the purpose of this amendment is to deal with a problem which represents itself in the following states: new york. massachusetts. connecticut. new jersey. michigan. and illis. in those states. the state. itself. has programs for low- and moderateincome housing. this bill would provide incentives for housing constructed under. section 221(d) (3) .and 236 of the national housing act. our interestand i have letters to support it from the housing authorities in new york and new jerseyis to extend this kind of tax incentive to a state program which provides for the same controls as are found under the federal programs. the problem was one of working out the language. this amendment would extend the incentive to housing under a state program. where the state program is like the federal programs. based upon either a guaranteed mortgage or a direct loan. this amendment also would apply to a state program of assistance through tax abatement. in this amendment i also seek to insure that rental rates and return on investment are controlled. therefore. the amendment provides. as a control mechanism. the requirement for certification by the secretary of housing and urban development. this amendment. in its present form. is satisfactory to the chairman of the committee and of the ranking miity member. i might point out that this is  an inconsiderable matter. in the state of new york 100.000 apartment units have been constructed under the state mitchelllama program. i e that the senator from new jersey is in the chamber. the state of new jersey is similarly concerned. i am hopeful that the ranking miity member of the committee and the chairman may see fit to follow what is the policy of the department of housing and urban development. under the 1968 housing act. to encourage the development of housing for low- and moderateincome persons.  only under federal law. which is  done under this bill. but also under state law. provided that such state and local programs meet the same objectives and contain the same safeguards.
 just reserving 30 seconds to say that i have just conferred with the senator from massachusetts . the provisions for agricultural credit and selfhelp community development projects which are contained in the amendment which he submitted are contained in my amendment only because we have the whole opic provision as contained in the house package word for word. is that correct.
the senator is absolutely correct. the quorum was for the purpose of giving ice to senators who may desire to be heard upon this very important question. i take full responsibility for it. one other point. . on aher subject: we had a debate here in respect of the appropriation for hud. the housing and urban development administration. on the adequacy of urban renewal funds. and the bill was then under the management of the senator from rhode island . we very deeply felt that the urban renewal funds provided were inadequate.  only as to the need but also as to the urgent requirement of plans which would be very seriously interfered with. the stock of housing in the country would be materially curtailed if the plans did  proceed. in view of the very strong opinion of senator pastore and our great confidence in him. those who felt as i did stayed our hand from any effort to increase the amount of the urban renewal funds. with the understanding that when a supplemental came alongthe time of the supplemental  being expressly designatedwe would have an opportunity to deal with the question again. based upon a specified set of facts as to the exact parameters of the requirement. within the strict limitations as i have stated. this is the first supplemental that has come along since that time. and we have endeavored. with the secretary of hud. to get the kind of figures that could be used as a basic representation to the senate for the purpose of seeking supplemental appropriation for urban renewal funds. the secretary advises us that he will be unable to give us the kind of figures he wants to give us in terms of accuracy and predictability. and in terms of the kind of figures we want. until january. i make this statement only to explain that this is an ongoing matter of action for me and the others interested. and that we will seek the earliest opportunity with relevance to the essential factual data to bring about an adequate appropriation for that purpose.
. for everyone who is concerned with providing more housing and also with environmental problems. this development represents a most important advance in this area. especially since it involves such a large tract of land. i ask unanimous consent that a news story. describing the project. published in the new york times of march 5. 1970. be printed in the record.
i am delighted that the senator has taken this action. i think it is entirely fitting that he should be the one to do it. i can affirm that this is the key to the problem relating to the debilitation and wreckage of our cities. this will help emously to correct many problems in the housing area.
. i am delighted to join in the amendment of the junior senator from new york. he is a member of the committee. he has done a tremendous amount of work in this area. we have 13.000 abandoned buildings in new york city involving 250.000 housing units. during his recent tour of the city. the senator from connecticut visited the section of the city referred to as brownsville and called it a national disaster. it is a singular. most striking devastation sight as one watches these yawning hulks of buildings where other people live and children play. where narcotics addicts set fires. where there is filth. and where every kind of degradation can be carried on with impunity. i think one of the most critically important things we can do about correcting the slums is to adopt this program. i hope that the senate can see fit to accept the amendment.
. if i could have the attention of the ranking miity member of the committee. in the absence of the chairman. and the attention of the senator. from wisconsin who has taken the managers chair. this amendment is. really. an amendment to conform the law to a situation which we face. and which other states may face. concerning mortgages which have the benefit of the subsidy under section 236. where the government subsidizes interest over 1 percent. the facts are these: the amendment would make eligible for this subsidization a group of charges called "fees and charges" charged by the mortgagee. which is an official agency. in my case the housing finance agency of the state of new york. the "fees and charges" include its administrative expenses and reserves. and so forth. which a bank. enjoying this guarantee. would. to use a bank term. load into its interest rate. however. the law of my state. and of other states likely to be in the same position. provides that the agencyto wit. the housing finance agencymust pass on to the borrowers the exact interest rate which it gets when it floats its own bonds. the practice is for the housing finance agency to aggregate the mortgages in its own hands of the various local housing authorities and agencies and. having aggregated them. to issue its own bonds. the bank dealing with the same situation would put its administrative charges. and so forth. into the interest rate. the housing finance agency and similar agencies do  do that. they must pass on to the borrower the same interest rate they pay on their bonds. hence. merely because of the label of the charge. or the label of the cost. it is excluded from ability to get a section 236 subsidy. it does  include arbitrage. discounts. on anything resembling any such costs. but includes the administrative expenses and the reserves which. i repeat. briefly. a bank would mally include in its total interest rate.
yes. that is exactly right. they are state programs. it has brought about $1 billion worth of additional housing in our state because of the gifted nature of this particular program. however. because it carries the wrong label. it can participate as a bank does. hud told us the amendment is fine with them. i hope very much that the committee can take this amendment to conference. to see if there are any problems with it.
. congress has repeatedly established goals and objectives for the provision of housing and the renewal of our cities. we must recognize. however. that even if the funding were adequateand it has  beenthe achievement of these objectives has been and will be frustrated by significant institutional obstacles. the federal government must be more sensitive and farsighted in judging the impact of its own construction programs on the pattern of urban growth and of the effect of the useand misuseof the land that it owns. more importantly. local zoning ordinances. building codes and taxing powers need to be significantly revised. so as to promote maximum housing opportunity and proper land utilization.
subsequently said: . i rose when the senator from alabama asked unanimous consent to defer .the filing of the rules for the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. because i wished to reserve the right to object. it is  material. and i shall " press it. but i do wish to call the attention of the senate to the fact that this is .a very desirable provision. and if committees loosely. in a sense. can just get up and get unanimous consent to put it over. it can easily mean hing. therefore. while i realize that this committee has a special problem. and i have objection to an extension for them. i serve ice that i shall object to any effort to extend that particular -provision hereafter except for cause. and i shall. as any senator is entitled to. ask for the cause. there may be good reason. in that the committee can get together. or something like that. but i do feel. in all honesty. since i was the author of this particular provision. that it can be made meaningless by successive unanimous consent extensions. so i shall object unless extension is sought for proper cause.
 nixon to call a conference of builders. construction union leaders. new york city officials. and mortgage officials to plan a strategy of largescale slum renewal. i believe that this idea of a conference is a very good one. i have also been working along with others to try and bring the resources of the private sector into play for massive rehabilitation of housing in new york. i ask unanimous consent that articles published in the new york times. the washington post. and the real estate builders record and guide discussing the lefrak situation be printed in the record.
. board of trustees: francisco aguirre. luis jos6 alvarez. william h. bolin. john f. gallagher. francisco v. garciaamador. jorge grieve. serglo gutlrrez olivos. felipe herrera. abraham horwitz. edward m. kennedy. israel klabin. alberto lieras camargo. sol m. lincxvi--420part 5 owitz. eugenio mendoza. jos6 a. mora. wayne morse. peter r. nehemkis. jr.. stuart portner. hickman price. jr.. jay r. reist. victor g. reuther. patricio rojas. armando samper. reinaldo c. santos. carlos sanz de santamaria. l. ronald scheman. walter j. sedwitz. carl b. spaeth. t. graydon upton. m. rafael urquia. the foundation is dedicated to the proposition that all citizens. representing the broadest spectrum of the ecoic and social scale within latin america. have a common responsibility to participate in the development process within their own countries. recognition of the need to supplement largescale governmental development efforts with community oriented selfhelp programs is encouraged by the padf. which offers technical assistance to community leaders to help them organize their own profit. community development foundations which in turn may receive matching loan and grant funds. a summary report on the status of this program was recently highlighted in the vision newsletter by winthrop p. carty. in view of the significance of this program in terms of our current concern for identifying inative and creative government development alternatives. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. i send to the desk and introduce for appropriate reference a bill to establish a national institute of building sciences. a companion bill has been introduced today in the house by representative moorhead of pennsylvania. the absence of an authoritative national source to advise the housing industry and local authorities as to the latest techogical developments in building materials and construction techniques and to propose nationally acceptable standards for local building codes has proven to be a great obstacle to efforts to meet the national housing goals set forth in the housing and urban development act of 1968. moreover. the lack of a system of uniform building code standards increases the cost of construction and inhibits ination in building techniques. the resulting fragmentation in the housing industry is clearly  in the public interest. this bill seeks to meet the problems in the housing area by establishing a governmental profit corporation which would develop and publish standards affecting building materials and local building codes. would promote and coordinate tests and studies of new building products and construction techniques. would provide research and technical services with respect to such materials and techniques. and would assemble and coordinate. to the extent practicable. all present activities in this area. the bill carries authorization for appropriations for 5 years starting at $5 million a year. and scaling down to $2 million a year at the end of the 5year period. after that time the institute is expected to be selfsupporting. this bill is similar to s. 2368 which i introduced in the last congress except that federal agencies would -be required to make use of the standards. techniques. and developments which have been certified as acceptable by the institute and the same requirements would apply to all programs and projects which are dependent upon federal financial or other assistance. i believe that this bill meets a very important need and should have the support of all groups who are involved in the housing and construction industry. i would hope that this legislation will receive prompt and favorable consideration in the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i urge the senate to approve an increase of $25 million for the section 235 homeownership assistance program. and $25 million for the section 236 rental housing assistance program. this would fund the section 235 program at $200 million. and the section 236 program at $225 million. recently this year. senator hart and i fought in the senate to add $25 million for each of these programs to the supplemental appropriations bill. this was done by the senate but was eliminated in the conference. for fiscal 1972 the house committee has only recommended appropriations of $165 million out of an authorization of $225 million for each of the programs. the senate committee has raised the level of 235 funding to $175 million. and the level of the 236 program to $200 -million. however. i believe that these level are still inadequate to meet the rising and highly justifiable needs under the programs. section 235 and especially section 236 are increasingly becoming the programs which will be used to supply the bulk of the subsidized housing in the country. section 236 subsidy funds have literally become the lifeblood of moderate and middle income multifamily housing construction and rehabilitation in new york city and other heavily populated sections of my state. without these subsidies. efforts by federal and local housing agencies to overcome a disastrous housing shortage. which worsens every day. are well nigh futile. gover rockefeller has recently stated that housing is new yorks  1 problem. the states major housing development agencies have as a result accelerated their capability to handle the volume of new construction and rehabilitation that must be achieved. the three largest agencies combined project a statewide demand for 236 funds of between $70 and $75 million as of june 30. 1972. yet. they can expect to receive only about $25 million under existing funding levels. huds more conservative estimates. prepared at my request. indicate that new york city alone will require $25.6 million for projects that will be under construction by december 31. 1971. huds best estimate of the statewide 236 demand by december 31. 1972. is $77 million. against this backdrop. which i am sure is similar to the situation in many other areas around the country. an appropriation of $175 million or even $200 million is  sufficient. the problem is similar in the section 235 program where the senate committee report states the backlog on a nationwide basis at $100 million. a primary complaint in the urban areas of our country is lack of adequate housingit is the root of many other evils. in order to alleviate this problem we must fund key programs such as 235 and 236 at the highest possible level. therefore. i urge my colleagues to approve the amendment today which would increase the two programs by $25 million each.
. i would like to congratulate the appropriations committee and especially senators pastore and allott and the other members of the subcommittee handling this bill for their exceptionally fine job in funding many of the valuable housing programs at high levels which will allow these programs to proceed at an even faster pace in this fiscal year. when i testified before the subcommittee on june 29. 1971. i recommended that numerous items in the housepassed appropriations bill be increased and i am pleased to see that in most of the important cases this was done. for the urban renewal program the house amount was increased by $300 million to $1.5 billion. even though this is  adequate with a backlog of $2.7 billion in applications. it will go a long way toward helping to clear the backlog. especially if the $200 million appropriated last year for urban renewal but which was impounded. is released by the administration as it should be. in the rent supplement program. the house amount was increased by $5 million to give a total contract authority of $60 million. while i had hoped that this important program would have been given authority to contract up to $80 million. i commend the committee for its increase over the house figure. i am also pleased that the committee increased the house amount of $3 million for counseling services under the section 237 program to $4 million and also ircreased the $3 million appropriation for the low- and moderateincome sponsor fund by $2 million to be used for advice and assistance to profit groups and low- and moderateincome families under section 903 of the housing act of 1970. one of the pressing problems in many areas of new york state and especially new york city is that of abandoned housing and i believe the committees action in adding $15 million to the house figure of $35 million for research and techogy deserves special praise. i had urged that $10 million be used for research into the abandoned building problem. $10 million for the experiment with the new housing allowance and $5 million for research into leadbased paint poisoning. one of the serious problems in many areas of the nations cities. the committee did add an additional $5 million over the budget request to accelerate research in those areas and i would hope that hud will concentrate its efforts on these critical problems. i am also pleased that the committee went along with the house recommendation of an additional $500.000 added to the budget for training assistance to continue the urban fellowship program. this program is necessary if we are to provide the technical housing specialists who will be out in the field helping to generate needed housing. i am also pleased that the committee increased the house amount of $8 million for fair housing and equal opportunity by $500.000 although i had hoped that the figure would be. increased. to the budget request of $9.254.000. this is a very important program which must be vigorously pursued if our citizens are to be granted equal access to all types of housing. while there were certain items that i was disappointed in and which were the subject of amendments today. the committee is to be commended for their fine job in attempting to fund key programs at the highest practical level. i trust that senators pastore. allott. and others will convince their house counterparts on the conference committee of the wisdom of adequately funding federal housing programs so vital to the housing crisis for our people.
. i believe that the amount which is involved here is much too small. i think we ought to be talking about at least $5 billion or $10 billion. i think that is much closer to the size of the problem which the united states faces. however. $2 billion is better than  having any authority at all. i hope very much. therefore. that the bill will pass withstanding its present vicissitudes. i repeat: it is  a lockheed bill. it should  be. i k it is in the sense that that is what is involved. but i hope very much an amendment will be agreed to which will show it is  a lockheed bill. because that is  the point that should be involved. my credentials for dealing with this matter may interest the senate. first. i introduced the bill for a $5 billion general guarantee authority last year1970. then. i introduced a bill. s. 1641. again this year and testified with respect to it before the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. this was during the time an individual bill was pending to guarantee a $250 million loan to lockheed. i urged the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs  to confine its action to so limited a measure as that and so special an interest measure as that. but to expand the bill into a bill required by the national ecoy. subsequently it did that with the administration coming along rather reluctantly. i think the entire country is indebted to the senator from alabama and the senator from texas
. i have learned from long experience two things about the senator from louisiana : one. never to forget the first and major bill i was permitted to introduce in the other body. the taftellender housing act. and so one must never forget the very fine record that the senator has in this general field. and. second. i k of man in this body who has less intention of cheating the legislative process. whether he agrees or disagrees. if congress has spoken. he will give us an honest break on the appropriations.
. my purpose in rising was to emphasize that point. i can understand why we have been denied this information. finally. i wish also to invite the attention of the senate to denial of anything in impacted area funds for the public housing aspect of this situation. this has been neglected a long time. we must continue the fight in the hope of getting some resources. i realize all the problems of the committee on appropriations but i believe these points essentially needed to be made in this matter
. in the tax reform act of 1969 section 1039 relating to sales of lowincome housing projects was added to the internal revenue code. the purpose of this section is to provide for recognition of gain if a "qualified housing project" is sold by a taxpayer and within a certain specified period the taxpayer constructs or acquires aher qualified housing project. the term "qualified housing project" was defined as one in which a mortgage is insured under section 221(d)(3) or 236 of the national housing act and which is limited as to rate of return on investments and as to rentals charged for units in the project. this section allows an initial investor in a federally assisted housing project to sell the property to the occupants or to a taxexempt organization managing the property without paying tax on any gain that might be involved in the transaction. this would allow private developers to construct housing and turn it over to profit groups or to tenants for their use. at the time the tax reform act was passed by the senate i offered an amendment. which was accepted on the senate floor by the managers of the bill. to apply section 1039 to state and local programs which contained the same controls as the federal programs. and which would be approved by hud. my amendment was deleted in conference and did  become law. i believe that this tax incentive should be extended to housing under state or local programs which are assimilated to the federal program and which are based upon guaranteed mortgages. direct loans or which operate through tax abatement. in new york state this would apply to programs such as those operated by the state urban development corporation and the state mitchelllama program. according to the department of housing and urban development approximately 19 other states beside new york have enacted legislation establishing viable state assisted housing programs. under my bill state programs would be eligible for the same preferential tax treatment in section 1039. which is  granted to the federal programs. i believe that this would further encourage the development of housing for low- and moderateincome persons. much greater use could be made of section 1039 than is presently being done. i have written to the department of housing and urban development and the treasury department asking them to comment on this legislation and both have indicated that the extension of section 1039 to state and local programs would be a desirable step. 1 would hope that this legislation could be enacted as soon as possible so that greater use could be made of section 1039. i ask unanimous consent that my letters to the treasury department and hud. together with their replies be placed in the record at this point.
. i have joined with senators cranston and taft in sponsoring a bill to establish a new housing program which would allow for refinancing of existing mortgages on housing for low- and moderateincome families. the existing housing shortages for low- and middleincome families remains quite severe throughout new york state and the nation. heretofore. national housing efforts have focused mainly on the production of new housing while neglecting the existing housing stock. at this time we need new initiatives to preserve and upgrade our existing housing. i believe that this bill will be an important first step in that process. in new york city. energies. and resources have been poured into new housing for depressed commmuitiesthough  really eghwhile housing in transitional areas has deteriorated at an alarming rate. neighborhoods such as washington heights in manhattan. crown heights. east flatbush. and bushwick in brooklyn and tremont in the bronx can be the devastated brownsvilles of tomorrow. a far more logical strategy would be to stabilize what we have at modest cost while continuing production efforts. that is why i have joined with senators cranston and taft in this bill. hopefully. this bill will help with the problem of neighborhood decay and mass abandonment. i believe that the questions raised about several of the present fha insurance programs should  deter the congress from initiating new programs which will help us solve the tremendous housing problem which still exists in many of our major cities. shortly. i intend to introduce a bill providing for an interest subsidy where necessary as an adjunct to this bill to provide additional tools in the struggle to save on our existing housing stock. i hope that the senate banking committee will give all these measures thorough consideration at its executive sessions which will be starting soon. by mr. weicker (for himself.
 i appreciate very much the attitude of the senator from alabama. he is generally supportive. with the senator from texas. in trying to work these matters out. i am much minded to move along the lines the senator has suggested. i do have one problem. which i would like to submit to both the senator from alabama and the senator from texas. king me as they do. they k i will submit the pros and cons. it so happens that the one who runs my new york office is present here. mr. dennis allee. he tells me. from the people who work. actually. work on these problems. that one of the real problems in many neighborhoods which use the subsidy program is that when it comes to utilizing the tools which the bill would provide. is that there often is great difficulty in retaining the traditional tennants. neighborhood people of good standing in the community. in housing which receives subsidy payments. we have drafted an amendment enabling them to stay. withstanding mandatory increases which result from the committee bill. i would greatly appreciate it--and i do it with my eyes wide openif the committee would take this matter to conferenceso an opportunity may be had to confer with the department of housing and urban development and perhaps to check back into the local communities to see whether the merit of this amendment could be shown. if the committee decides that hing should be done about it. i will rest on their judgment. but as we k the practice. unless it is taken to conference. hing will happen. even if it is highly deserving. on that amendment. i would greatly appreciate it if the committee would give us aher chance to get this matter considered through conference. to determine whether. in equity and fairness. something ought to be done about the older tenants who have income levels perhaps higher than would enable them in order to qualify for subsidized rents. but who should  have to go to the socalled market rents. i would understand. in respect of that particular amendment. that the committee would just be taking it to conference really for the purpose of looking into the question to determine whether or . in justice. something ought to be done.
 of chase national. was able to advocate a national program of $10 billion for housing rehabilitation so great are the resources which these financial institutions represent. i simply can.  can anybody else. do anything  in the field of middleand moderateincome housing unless we are able to crank in adequate section 236 funding. if we do want the private sector to activate itself. as it undoubtedly can in an unusual way to realize a greater housing effort than we have ever been able to make thus far. this is the way to do it. increased funding for the 236 program has been advocated by all those organizations who have been concerned with housing problems in this country over the years. these include: the american institute of architects. the national association of homebuilders. the national housing conference. the national association of housing and redevelopment officials. and numerous state and local housing officials. we should  lose sight of the fact that in 1971 we produced 445.000 new low- and moderateincome units as compared to more than 50.000 as recently as 1967. in fact. during the past 3 years more subsidized housing for low- and moderateincome families has been provided than in the preceding 30 years. this is substantial progress and we should  be stampeded into reversing this progress. i strongly urge the committee and the senate to increase the funding for this extremely valuable program to $200 million. i am very grateful to my colleagues on the committee. they have made a real contribution. i am only making this argument in the hope that they will be fortifled in their own convictions and will be able to persuade the members of the conference committee from the other body of the necessity for participation in this. effort which is so important for the construction of low- and moderateincome housing.
. within the past several years residents of lowincome neighborhoods in new york and similar older cities have suffered from the rapid deterioration of existing housing and a marked increase of abandonment of residential units. existing housing entrapped in this deterioration cycle is. for the most part. of basically sound stock that could be returned to standard condition with preventative repair and responsible management/maintenance. deterioration is on occasion attributable to destructive tenants. however. it is usually caused by deferred maintenance and inadequate or existent management by inexperienced or absentee property owners. a related cause is excessive debt service resulting from the unavailability or high cost of mortgage financing from institutional lenders. a critical underlying factor is the failure of traditional new construction and "gut" rehabilitation programs to keep pace with. and thereby offset. the decay and abandonment of existing housing stock. there is little doubt that major devastation of many innercity neighborhoods will result within the next 5 to 10 years if new programs are  devised  to combat the alarming rate of housing decay and abandonment. my amendment proposes that oeo sponsor a special program designed to repair. rehabilitate and maintain existing housing stock in selected lowincome urban neighborhoods and which seeks to encourage. as an integral part thereof. homeownership by lowincome families. the need for such a program in new york has been repeatedly manifested by planning and housing groups active in housing for depressed lowincome neighborhoods. arch in central harlem. an oeofunded design and planning organization. and the coalition for human housing. located on the lower east side of manhattan. have recently proposed. independently. preservation schemes which feature repair. moderate rehabilitation and preventive maintenance by communitybased entities of entire neighborhoods. the martin luther king. jr.. health center and the morrisania youth and community service corp.. both supported by oeo and located in the south bronx. have embarked on pilot programs to save and upgrade existing housing stock. and other groups throughout new york. including the united housing fund of the settlement houses which operates in all depressed sections of the city. have espoused similar programs. the bedfordstuyvesant restoration corp. has already engaged in a successful exterior reation/homeownership program in its target community which has had marked positive impact. in east harlem. the prototype for one type of communitybased repair. preventive maintenance and training program envisioned by the proposed amendment has existed for 2 years. the east harlem environmental extension service. a profit corporation run by area residents. combines under one format the following program components: training and employment of repair and maintenance personnel. repair. maintenance. and management services to residential structures under contracts with property owners and tenants groups. environmental and health servicesrat control. debris removal. insect eliminationin housing treated and tenant counseling and organization. interest in homeownership within lowincome communities. although in the infancy stage. *has been equally great in new york. preliminary investigations by columbia universitys sdhool of urban planning indicate that selfhelp cooperative efforts in new york city have. in general. been highly successful as a means for upgrading and maintaining existing housing in standard condition. the financial tribulations of the ehees program. referred to above. which have impeded its development of a fully comprehensive program. is symbolic of a fundamental problem faced by repair and maintenance efforts in lowincome neighborhoods. to wit. the absence from national or local government housing policy of strategies and programs to preserve basically sound housing stock in lowincome neighborhoods through repair. moderate rehabilitation. preventive maintenance and tenant ownership. because of the slow pace and underfunding of new housing programs. and the new federal emphasis on housing dispersal. huds present policy means. in effect. that deteriorating innercity communitieswhich shelter millions of familiesare being left to die a natural death through neglect. specifically. federal housing programs under the national housing acts focus entirely on the production of new housing and to a lesser extent. on gut rehabilitation of existing housing stock. public housing programs. in particular. have been traditionally geared toward new construction. the cornerstone of hud subsidy programs. fha insurance. has built into it requirements of ecoic life and quality that prohibit anything less than new construction or major rehabilitation. our investigations have indicated that existing hud philosophies and programs are  easily altered to encompass repair. moderate rehabilitation. and preventive maintenance concepts. on the local level. some attention has been devoted by model cities and cdc programs to preventive repair and maintenance but their major emphasis continues to be on traditional housing approaches. local government in new yorkdespite a 1970 management consultant study recommending a shift to a strategy of moderate rehabilitation and maintenancealso devotes minimal resources to preventive maintenance. moderate rehabilitation. lowincome cooperatives. and management programs. new york citys office of special improvements. the repository of such programs. has a program budget of only a few million dollars. recent federal and local efforts to address the problem of neighborhood housing preservation. both from a legislative and programmatic standpoint. have focused on "transitional" neighborhoods characterized by ecoic and racial mix as opposed to more depressed lowincome communities. thus. new york states only rehabilitation/tenant cooperative program is virtually unavailable in areas such as harlem. the south bronx. and the lower east side. the same is true of huds experimental preservation programs  being developed. the comprehensive neighborhood conservation bill which i introduced on february 7. 1972. also contemplates hud emphasis on "transitional" neighborhoods. as opposed to traditional poverty neighborhoods. and the same concept is embodied in the senate version of the new housing bill. thus. under existing and contemplated housing programs. low income neighborhoods still will  have at their disposal resources and programs to stem the tide of widespread and acceleratng housing deterioration and the human suffering attendant thereto. this amendment seeks to lay the foundation for a new approach to blight in inner city neighborhoods predicated on the following assumptions: first. that lowincome families in such communities want to remain and in many cases to own homes or apartments in their neighborhood. second. that neighborhood residents have the will and capacity to repair and maintain existing stock if given the necessary tools. third. that the shortage of funds. timelag. and other difficulties inherent in traditional housing programs of new construction and gut rehabilitation make it imperative that lowincome neighborhoods embark immediately on complementary programs of interim repair and maintenance of existing housing stock to curb increased deterioration. and fourth. that such programs can best be carried out by communitybased housing development corporations or similar organizations responsive to the neighborhoods served. the amendment seeks in a systematic way to infuse into designated lowincome neighborhoods. selected by the oeo director. some basic tools which will make possible proposed programs of repair and preventive maintenance. these tools will be used to. first. preserve and upgrade existing housing stock through communitybased programs of repair. preventive maintenance and related environmental and health services designed to provide decent. safe housing. second. to encourage and assist tenant cooperatives and homeownership by lowincome families within their communities: third. to develop communitybased capacity to operate programs of repair. rehabilitation. maintenance and management. fourth. to train and employ lowincome residents for meaningful occupations in construction and management/maintenance professions and to stimulate business opportunities for area residents. and fifth. to develop new programs of moderate rehabilitation which will provide decent housing at reasonable cost as an ecoical alternative to continued decay and abandonment. the program will have the following essential components: first. an authorization of $20 million for each of 3 fiscal years. second. applicability in specified lowincome neighborhoods of essentially sound but deteriorating housing stock as selected by the director. and third. implementation of the proposed program by communitybased housing development corporations and other appropriate entities or groups. funds will be available for a variety of purposes. including administrative expenses of housing development corporations and other entities. seed money or development funds. acquisition funds. relocation expenses. costs of repair. rehabilitation and related environmental and health services. construction writedowns. tenant organization and counseling. management/maintenance services and entities. training and employment of lowincome residents. other expenses designed to encourage and assist homeownership by lowincome families and tenant cooperatives. cost of repair and maintenance of essential neighborhood facilitiesthat is. streets. sidewalks. lights. lots. signsloans for or on behalf of lowincome families to further homeownership and to facilitate rehabilitation of existing housing to standard condition. i would hope very much that this rather inative suggestion would find favor with the senate.
i thank my colleague. could my colleague give us the assurance in the legislative oversight. as the senator is managing the bill and is on the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. and is chairman of the appropriate subcommittee. that this assurance which underlies the bill will be given every consideration.
i thank my colleague from rhode island very much. i owe him an explanation. i have myself. and so have members of the finance committee and others. often acted against our own parochial interests and i was  meaning to imply that. if i did. i withdraw it and i apologize for it. but i feel. on the facts and the figures. that a serious bias is created against the urbanized state. i think we have a right here in order to break through the thinking--as the senator says. there is a lot of apathy on this anyhowto make it as dramatic as we can. one thing i should e to the senator. especially as we both have served here a long time together. is that he has often voted for measures which were  necessarily loaded in favor of his particular state. i have. toovery frequently. i should like to give the senate an illustration of that. with regard to the conference on the antipoverty bill. i allowed to be stricken from the bill a provision dealing with a certain type of housing in slum areas in the cities. in order to help a similar provision which came over from the house about slum areas in rural parts of the united states. in the hope that from some other housing project we would be able to help the cities. that is one illustration of many. the example i gave of former senator keating and myself parting company on an education bill which was heavily against new york in its formula is also germane. i voted for that bill. indeed. i was its principal protagonist. i understand that and i accept it. i am proud of it in my legislative career. ala i argue is. when many states come along. on what is a transfer of dollars and cents from one areato wit. the federal governmentto states and cities whose needs are so urgent. that the formula should at least accommodate the place of urgent need which gave rise to the whole concept. rather than being loaded. as i see it. expressly against the very urbanized areas. for these reasons. . i hope that my amendment will be agreed to.
may we count. then. on the continued support of the senator from alabama and his continued effort to find a way to effectuate the senate purpose. as shown by this amendment to the housing bill and the public works bill with respect to urban mass transit.
. this is a question of assimilating. for tax purposes. the sale with recognition of gain of a qualified housing project to the extent that the proceeds are invested in aher qualified housing project. without a tax applying. right . the law provides that such treatment is extended to projects which are insured under section 221(d) (3) or octobe14. 1972 section 236 of the national housing act. this is thus an inducement for private people to get out of the ownership of such a project or out of the ownership of a group of properties and sell them to aher cooperative or aher qualified owner for such a project. limited only to federally sponsored housing projects. there are a number of states. about 19 statesi will submit a list for the recordwhere similar housing projects come under state law also. with limited return. limited rate of occupancy charges. et cetera. those states are alaska. connecticut. delaware. hawaii. illis. maine. maryland. massachu-. setts. michigan. minnesota. missouri. new jersey. new york. th carolina. ohio. oregon. pennsylvania. south carolina. vermont. and west virginia. the amendment simply provides that the same treatment may be afforded if the secretary of hud certifies that the ownership will be the same kind of ownership as under projects under section 221(d) (3) or section 236 of the national housing act. if the clerk will return the bill. i will read the pertinent portions.
that is correct. i have letters from the treasury department and the secretary of housing and urban development commenting on this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that my letters to the treasury department and hud. -together with their replies. be printed in the record.
the tax legislative counsel of the office of the secretary of the treasury. in replying. said: i agree that there is meaningful distincticn between housing projects sponsored under federal programs and similar housing projects sponsored under state and local programs. in the letter received from george romney. the secretary of housing and urban development. he stated: i certainly agree that the extension of section 1039 to the state and local programs. where they qualify. would be in our interests in assisting thegrowth of those programs. the pertinent provision of the bill is as follows: which is approved by the appropriate state or local agency administering such laws pursuant to regulations or procedures which the secretary of housing and urban development has certified are in accord with the standards applied by him in approving the sale or disposition of a "qualified housing project" under section 221(d) (3) or 236 of the national housing.act. . i am very mindful of the ground rules the senator has laid down. and i would like to explain why i believe this amendment qualifies. the staff of the committee apparently felt that. it being a technical thing we were trying to do here. it was  the sort of thing that was susceptible to hearings. so we were advised to bring it on an appropriate tax bill. at a time when there was a catchall bill like this one. i might point out also that this particular provision was attached to the tax reform act at the time that it was passed. for whatever reason. it was dropped in conference. and there it has been in limbo since. i would hope very much. as we are advised by the treasury department that there is appreciable revenue loss. and that this is being used as a totally new effort to get housing in this kind of field. or at least to broaden the utilization of the channel. that it could be taken to conference. obviously. if the house objects again. it will be dropped. but at least we will have this chance.
provided that it. too. is enforcing rules which are the same as or substantially the same as those the secretary of housing and urban development is enforcing. i should like to read it again to the senator: which is approved by the appropriate state or local agency administering such laws pursuant to regulations or procedures which the secretary of housing and urban development has certified are in accord with the standards applied by him in approving the sale or disposition of a qualified housing project under section 221(d)3 or section
. during the last several weeks. the administration has annced that further commitments will be made in a large number of housing and related programs affecting both rural and urban areas. these include all subsidy programs and most community development programs. i feel very strongly that this "hold" is most harmful to the efforts that have been made over the last few years adequately to house the people of the nation and congress must act to move ahead on effective action to solve this dilemma. i ask unanimous consent that the statement i made on this problem on january 9. 1973. and an excellent editorial from the new york times today. commenting on the subject. be printed in the record.
. i wish to read one portion of the reply that i received because it is very important: thus. hud has indicated that it will continue to process project applications where. in the case of water and sewer grants. open space grants. public facility loans. and college housing projects. there has been a reservation of funds. in the case of public housing projects. there has been a preliminary loan contract approval. and in the case of other subsidized housing programs. a feasibility letter has been given. at the present time. hud is surveying its field offices to determine the exact number of projects qualifying for eligibility under these criteria. at the same time. it is attempting to ascertain whether patterns of inequity exist that would require exceptions to the rules.
m. president. the moratorium on federal housing programs has created great problems in new york state and throughout the country. i continue to believe it is ill advised completely to discontinue entire programs approved by the congress without any substitutes. this housing policy has been particularly hard on the great urban areas around the country and particularly new york city which depends so heavily on the section 236 program and the public housing program to help the low- and moderateincome family. i ask unanimous consent that an article in yesterdays new york times discussing a 10year low in housing starts in new york city be printed in the record.
i am  proposing to write amendments about programs.  at all. i am proposing to deal only with the issue of principle. which deals with mandated expenditures.  in accordance with new programs. but with what we appropriated long ago. these programs are authorized and are  new programs or variations of existing programs. the second point which seems to me is important is that we can fly in the face of reality. the fact is that the administration has taken a given position. and we can inveigh against that position and have heated congressional debates on its positions. and then. when the issue comes up. step away from it and let it be. on the theory that we will wait until we passnew appropriations or until the 1974 appropriations are before us. this is our chance to meet the issue. if we have the feeling or conviction egh to meet it when the issue is before us. and we have the power to do something about it. i think we are weak vessels if we do  meet it. finally. my colleague and beloved friend from th dakota mentioned something about people being hurt. we hear screams all over the horizon by people who are being badly hurt. i hear from practically every municipality in my state. and i hazard the guess that other people do. as well. housing starts are cut. unless they had a certain kind of commitment. whatever the administration construes that certain kind of commitment to be. offices relating to the poor are being dismantled. the same is true of health. colleges are being cut off from research grants. and so forth. plenty of people are being hurt. and hurt badly. because we are  setting the priorities. the president is setting the priorities. i do  think that is the way it is supposed to be in this country. therefore. with the greatest respect. simply on the basis of the same profound conviction the president shows. and without transgressing upon what i think are problems in the way of expenditure limitations. i think we have to help ourselves when we can. i may stand alone in thisi do  think i willbut certainly the senate has a right. when the issue is posed. to decide it upon the basis of its judgment. i heard the colloquy that the senator from minnesota had with our distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee. but the administration has already informed us that it intends to disregard the clear intent of the law except as expenditures may be mandated in education.
. in an effort to work out two problems. the senator from florida is prepared to propose an amendment which will do two things: one. make a test of whether there is a vacancy crisis in a given area and the insufficiency of the availability of lowor moderateincome housing as defined by the regulations. which is what. after all. we are shooting at. that takes care of the lower end of the scale. the upper end of the scale would be completely excluded from the operation of the amendment as to luxury housing as defined in given areas. in that way. we narrow the target and serve the purpose of the amendment which the senator from new jersey and i have offered. i hope very much that the senator from new jersey. on our joint behalf. may be able to accept and incorporate the amendment of the senator from florida on both those points into this amendment of ours.
. i wish to make an observation concerning what the senator has just said. and i should like to ask him a question. i represent what is probably the most densely settled city in the country and i recognize the great interest of the senator from washington and the senator from alabama in the problems of the cities. i think it would be a mistake to assume that  only all but even a majority of the additional housing is slums. there are other areas i would invite them to see besides the terribly depressing areas which have developed. much of it is housing which is beautifully kept while only a miity of that housing has been abused. but when we look at the land along the east river. in new york. it is just one more example of a renascence in a citys living conditions. i thoroughly agree with the senator from washington that slums do encroach upon new areas. and we must see to it that new and even more beautiful construction is built. i am deeply devoted to the "new cities" concept.
i have introduced the amendment as a bill. which will undoubtedly be referred to the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. i will accept the assurances of both senators. and king them as i do. i think they will exceed rather than underexceed in their endeavors. . i withdraw my amendment.
. i send to the desk and introduce for appropriate reference a bill to establish a national institute of building sciences. the absence of an authoritative national source to advise the housing industry and local authorities as to the latest techogical developments in building materials and construction techniques and to propose nationally acceptable standards for local building codes has proven to be a great obstacle to efforts to meet the national housing goals set forth in the housing and urban development act of 1968. moreover. the lack of a system of uniform building code standards increases the cost of construction and inhibits ination in building techniques. the resulting fragmentation in the housing industry is clearly  in the public interest. this bill seeks to meet the problems in the housing area by establishing a governmental profit corporation which would develop and publish standards affecting building materials and local building codes. would promote and coordinate tests and studies of new building products and construction techniques. would provide research and technical services with respect to such materials and techniques. and would assemble and coordinate. to the extent practicable. all present activities in this area. the bill carries authorization for appropriations for 5 years starting at $10 million a year. and scaling down to $4 million a year at the end of the 5year period. after that time the institute is expected to be selfsupporting. this bill is similar to s. 2368 which i introduced in the last congress except that federal agencies would be required to make use of the standards. techniques. and developments which have been certified as acceptable by the institute and the same requirements would apply to all programs and projects which are dependent upon federal financial or other assistance. i believe that this bill meets a very important need and should have the support of all groups who are involved in the housing and construction industry. i would hope that this legislation will receive prompt and favorable consideration in the senate. i would like to point out that this measure passed the senate last year as part of s. 3248. the omnibus housing bill. which did  pass the house. however. this measure was also included in the housing bill reported by the house banking committee. the bill i am introducing today is basically the same as the bill which passed the senate but the authorization has been doubled. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
 of the american bar association. of his intent to withdraw and  pursue at this time any new regulations for the program. mr. phillips had previously published regulations that in my opinion would have greatly changed the program and limited socalled law reform cases and restricted representation in cases involving assistance for the establishment of community development corporations and other organizations. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a copy of the statement by the new york bar association to which i referred earlier. together with the exchange of letters i had with the acting director of oeo. alvin j. arnett. regarding backup centers. and a copy of the resolution sponsored by the new york law associates to which i also referred.
 i am proposing several amendments in section 111 of the bill relating to housing programs and planning of the states. section 111 contains the provisions that govern the allocation of housing assistance funds provided under sections 402 and 502 and under the u.s. housing act as amended by chapter ii of this bill. the amendments essentially make two modifications or clarifications in these allocation provisions. first. a new subsection (3) is added in section 111(b) which provides that the secretary shall. to the extent feasible. reserve out of funds allocated under section 111(a) sufficient amounts to meet the housing objectives contained in the programs of state housing agencies. such reservations would  be made if or to the extent the secretary determined that any such program did  make adequate provision for the needs of low and moderate income families or was otherwise  consistent with basic objectives stated in the act. section 111 (b)  provides for reservations of housing assistance funds to meet the housing objectives contained in any approved application under the community development assistance act of 1974. which is chapter iii of the bill. and contained in any new community project agreement approved under title vii of the housing and urban development act of 1970 or under title iv of the housing and urban development act of 1968. the new subsection (3) provides for similar reservations for state housing programs. it would make clear that we favor and intend continuation of huds existing practice whereby it has customarily made housing assistance funds available to state housing agencies through annual or periodic block setasides. section 236 funds have usually been made available to operational state agencies through socalled annual arrangements. i am informed that hud has recently annced its intention to make section 23 leased housing assistance funds available to state agencies through periodic block setasides. this procedure has worked well. the state agencies have made effective use of the assistance funds made available to them. as i will discuss in a moment. the reservation procedure has enabled state agencies to plan their programs. and to work out housing program arrangements with localities and communities. on a broad basis. that would be much more difficult to do if assistance funds were made available to them in a piecemeal projectbyproject manner. reservations of funds for state agencies have of course been subject to limitations. and would continue to be subject to limitations. funds reserved for an agency must be put to use within a reasonable period of time. otherwise they are subject to recapture and reallocation to others who can use them more promptly and effectively. furthermore. reserved funds are contractually committed for specific projects only after statutory and other basic preconditions have been met. in this regard it should be ed that hud. recognizing that state agencies are governmental bodies with a commitment to public purposes and responsibilities. has followed the general practice of delegating to such agencies maximum responsibility for performing processing functions and making required determinations. subject to post audit by hud. i applaud this approach and anticipate that it will be continued and extended. fund reservations for state agencies would of course be made within and subject to the allocations for types of geographic areas provided for in section 11(a)-the allocation of 75 percent of housing assistance funds for use in metropolitan areas and 25 percent for use in metropolitan areas. they would be made from funds other than those reserved for housing provided for in community development plans and new community project agreements pursuant to subsections (1) and (2) of section 111 (b). funds reserved under subsections (1) and (2) could also. of course. as section 111 (c) makes clear. be made directly available to state housing agencies as well as to other public housing agencies or eligible mortgagors for use in accordance with the applicable community development plans and new community project agreements. and where appropriate such funds might be made available to a state agency for such purposes by setaside rather than by individual project auplications. section 111(b) should . of course. preclude the secretary from administratively adopting a fund reservation procedure in other situations where he might in the future find this the most effective method for administering housing assistance. second. the three amendments i am proposing in section 111(c) essentially provide that housing assistance funds. after they are allocated as provided in section 111(a). are to be made available for use in conformity  only with the housing plans of the units of local government in the areas where the funds are to be used. as  provided in subsection (c). but also in accordance with such housing plans of the states as may be applicable in those areas. i believe there is wide agreement on some basic concepts that i find reflected in this bill. we want to encourage state and local governments to assume a lead role and responsibility in assessing their own housing needs and formulating priorities and plans for meeting those needs. and in the provision of governmental assistance. federal. state. and local. for meeting those needs in accordance with those priorities and plans. that is in keeping with the concept of the new federalism. we want housing and community development activities to be planned and carried out in a coordinated way so that they are mutually supportive in serving the basic objectives of the act. and we want to assure that. where federal assistance is to be used. there is effective collaboration and coordination between state and local governments in planning housing and community development programs. and that in the process for formulating state housing plans there is suitable provision for participation by local governments that would be affected and for hearing public views. we of course recognize. at the same time. that the distribution of functions between state and local governments and the formulation of working arrangements between state and local governments are essentially matters within the province of the state rather than the federal government. these are considerations that underlie my proposed amendments to section 111(c). and that i would expect to be taken into account by the secretary in administering section 111 (c). however. section 111(c)  refers only to housing plans of units of local governments. providing that federal housing assistance funds are to be made available for use in accordance with those plans. i take for granted there is intent to suggest precluding state governments from formulating housing plans to meet needs within their states. which would be beyond our province anyway.  to suggest that. where such plans are formulated. they are to be disregarded in the furnishing of federal assistance in areas within the state. my amendments are intended to avoid any such implication. this is more than a theoretical concern. according to my information there are  some 16 states. including my own state of new york. that. pursuant to state law. are engaged in analysis of statewide housing needs and defining priorities as a guide for actions to meet their housing needs. aher eight states or so have statutory authority to do the marbh 8. 1974 same thing. and there are some 10 states that have formulated housing plans. including again my own state of new york. this. then. is the substance and intent of the amendments that i am proposing. i should call to your attention that the national govers conference committee on rural and urban development has urged the adoption of amendments such as i am proposing in a resolution that it adopted last wednesday expressing its support for the senate committee bill with these and two other amendments. under the amendments i am proposing in section 111(c). funds would be made available for use in accordance with the housing plans of the state and of the units of local government in the areas where the funds are to be used. however. any such plan would  apply in making assistance funds available if the secretary found that the plan did  make adequate provision for the housing needs of low and moderate income families. if there was only one plan applicable to the area. state or local. funds would be made available for use in accordance with that plan. if there was plan. funds would be made available in accordance with such terms and conditions as the secretary may prescribe. if there were both a state and a local plan. and the secretary did  find significant inconsistences between them. funds would be made available in accordance with the two plans. if in such a case the secretary did find significant inconsistencies between the state and local plan. then. as provided in the sentence i am proposing be added at the end of subsection (c). the secretary would take such steps as he deemed appropriate toward having state and local government reconcile those differences. in the meantime. in cases where the state plan has binding effect. funds should appropriately be allocated in accordance with that plan. and in other cases they would be allocated on such basis. within the framework of the two plans. as the secretary deemed most appropriate. in introducing these amendments. i want to say that i have a strong interest in the activities of state and local government agencies. and in the expanded role which they can play in the future. in efforts to meet the housing needs of low- and moderateincome families. it was this interest that prompted me to introduce the amendment in the housing and urban development act of 1968an amendment adopted by the congresswhich authorized federal housing assistance under the section 236 interest subsidy program to be used in the programs of state and local housing agencies. i am greatly heartened by the progress and accomplishments of these agencies since that time. and by the growing number of states that have established housing agencies and programs. in 1968 there were seven states which had established state housing finance and development agencies. this included new york. where we have two such programsthe urban development corporporation. established in 1968. and the program of the state division of housing and community renewal working with our state housing finance agency. the first such agency created in the country. since 1968 some 22 additional states have established state housing agencies. many of them created within the past 2 years. so there are  some 30 states that have state housing agencies. in 19 of these the programs are  operational. these state housing agencies are performing an increasingly important and effective role in the total national effort to meet the housing needs of low and moderate income families. since 1968 these agencies have developed close to 120.000 units of housing for lower income families. almost all of this housing was made possible. i am pleased to report. by federal assistance that was provided pursuant to my amendment to section 236. and that was used in combination with the resources provided for this housing by state and local governments. indeed. nearly 20 percent of all of the housing that has been built with section 236 assistance was developed under the programs of these state agencies. in states where there are longer established state housing agencies. these agencies have become a major force in meeting the housing needs of our lower income families. i am confident that this will become the case in many more states as their housing agencies become fully operational. and assuming there is available the federal assistance that is indispensable for the provision of lowincome housing. as is provided for in the committees bill. in new york. our state housing agencies have developed some 65 percent of all of the low- and moderateincome housing that has developed in my state using section 236 assistance. indeed. onethird. of all the housing that has been developed in our state during the past 2 years. and close to 80 percent of all the housing that was developed in new york city during that period. was developed through the use of one form or aher of federal. state. or local assistance. or a combination of such assistance. while the importance of governmental assistance for housing has perhaps been most dramatically illustrated in new york. it has been important in other states as well. in massachusetts. for example. the state housing finance agency has developed some 37 percent of all the housing developed in that state since 1968 with section 236 assistance. i should also point out that to date there has  been a single foreclosure on any project of a state housing agency. in contrast to the experience with some other federally assisted projects. i appreciate your bearing with my recital of this information. i think you will find it as gratifying and encouraging as i do. and that it amply warrants what the committee has said about state housing efforts on pages 37 and 38 of its report: [t]he committee has been cognizant of the increasingly important and effective role that state housing finance agencies have come to play in the field of governmentassisted housing. and of the growing number of states that within the past few years have assumed this kind of responsibility for dealing with housing needs within their states. there are  about 30 state housing agencies. most of them created within the past few years. the committee welcomes and encourages this approach. which combines the use of state resources. through state financing of housing and other measures such as tax abatement. with federal housing assistance for low- and moderateincome housing. i believe this information also helps to explain why i want to assure that. under the excellent bill that the committee has reported. there be a firm basis on which these efforts of our states and their agencies can continue. expand. and grow in effectiveness. with that purpose i urge the adoption of the amendments i have proposed in section 1hi.
. the real problem is that many states do have state housing agencies. thirty states have state agencies. and of those 30 states. 19 have programs which are operational. it seems to me that that evidences egh of an interest so that the states should be brought into the picture. just as localities are. also. to provide that where there are housing plans of both the state and the unit of local government. and where the secretary finds inconsistency in such plans. then he shall act in respect to such inconsistency in an effort to reconcile the inconsistencies. it seems to me that both these matters are divisable. in short. i would greatly appreciate it if we could be advised whether that part of the amendment is satisfactory to the committee. then we could at least confine our debate to the part of the amendment which is unsatisfactory. may we k whether that part of the amendment which relates to the reconciliation of plans between the states and local areas is satisfactory.
. i understand that a great many of the provisions of my bill designated for neighborhood preservation are already addressed in the bill before the senate. i would appreciate it very much if the manager of the bill would state to us the particular references. so that all who are interested in this very critical problem may be advised and informed as to where in the bill they can find some help in respect to this matter.
i thank the senator. . this is only the culmination of a long experience with this committee on housing. i want to especially speak of the senator from texas . i spoke of the senator from alabama before. in the housing field seemingly there is a tremendous meeting of the minds and consensus of views. i think what the committee has doneand they beat me down a bitis part of the whole process of getting the best bill that represents the best the senate has to offer. i think that is the highest praise that can be uttered for senators in charge of a bill. i express my gratitude to the senator from alabama . the senator from texas . and the senator from maine . this is characteristic of the way housing measures have been handled here over the years.
. if i may have the attention of the senator from wyoming. i do  think the senator meant that we should wait on the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs to report back to the senate or that it means laying the matter aside until the report comes back to the senate.
it will be ready. splendid. . i will cover the rest of the subject briefly. we are gratified with the bloc grants consolidation only because it does have a holdharmless provision and a provision for review. otherwise it could have been very threatening in terms of urban renewal. model cities. and water and sewer program. we are also gratified that existing .public housing was recognized as well as the need for some operating subsidies. indeed. it was very badly needed. this bill. as it were. came to the rescue. personally. i am deeply interested in rehabilitation of housing. and i hope. i shall do my utmost to help with this. that the provisions contained in the conference report and in the law will be used to the maximum extent. finally. we wish to call attention to the urban homesteading provisions and the possibilities which they open in respect to the loan porgram. may i say it is really very gratifying to people like myself. when it comes to housing there is an understanding of its basic importance to our people by those who have mally conservative views about money. with a recognitionsenator brock and i have discussed this personally on a number of occasionsthat it is  inflationary because it represents a contribution to the tangible assets of the country far exceeding the cost. because what goes into it is what the occupant or the owner puts up. and cxx1775part 21 then the improvements. and then the social conditions of that occupant or owner improve so that together we increase our real wealth as against whatever guarantees. et cetera. we undertake rather than reducing it. i think that is a critically important element which the country should understand and which is certainly recognized by the banking committee
. i introduce a bill to establish an ecoic review board. the justification for this bill is contained in my testimony before the senate committee on banking. housing and urban affairs today. which i ask unanimous consent. together with the text of the bill. to be printed in the record at this point.
i thank the senator.  properly included it in his antiinflation package. all of us are grateful to the chairman of the committee. senator sparkman. senator tower. the ranking member. and the authors of this bill. senator brooke and senator cranston. however. the bill does have this very signal omission: the omission involves some 63 million americans who live in the states just ticked off by senator proxmire. that is 30 percent of our population. it is hardly fair or proceeding in a discriminatory way to simply lock them off and leave them out. they will get benefit from this whatever. unless the proxmire amendment or some other amendment which goes to the merits of the situation is adopted. i proposed an amendment yesterday. which is printed he is the ranking member of this committee and ks this situation. i certainly wish to join him. as should all other senators similarly situated to myself. so. in the most elementary interests of fairness and discrimination. with so large a proportion of our population involved. if we really want to help the housing situation and be discriminatory about it. this amendment seems absolutely essential. i hope this excellent bill will be amended in this way.
. the senator from alabama has joined me in this matter. he is the chairman of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. it is his view that this is a highly desirable extension. and i hope the manager of the bill will find it possible to accept it.
. the amendment i have introduced would give the states and local agencies more flexibility to administer their state housing programs. it would authorize the state or local agency to set the maximum income limits and the percentage of income paid by the tenant in those statefinanced housing projects which are receiving section 236 housing assistance payments. it is important to recognize that these mortgages are  insured by fha and the only hud function is providing the interest reduction payment. what is here proposed is consistent with the housing and community development act of 1974. it brings back to the local area the responsibility for determining those who are eligible for the subsidized rental accommodations and the percentage of income which the tenant must pay. it will make it possible for the state and local agencies to create rental structures which are consistent with the communities housing needs and housing plans. this will  result in any added expenditure by the federal government. the interest reduction contracts and subsidy payments are fixed amounts and would in way be modified by this amendment. it would also mean that the tenant would have to pay at least the basic rental. unless rent supplement payments had also been authorized for the low income families. since the basic rentals are in way affected. furthermore. the tenant would  have to pay in excess of the fair market rental which gives effect to the subsidy payment. by giving the state and local agencies this added flexibility. it will be possible for them to approach the matter on a project by project basis and to adapt housing projects to meet community needs in a much more refined manner. in order to make certain that e of the present tenants are affected. the amendment would prohibit any increases as to them. except for a pass through of increased operating expenses. as an additional safeguard. the state or local agency will be required to certify to hud that the income limits and rentals are the lowest which can be fixed for maintaining ecoic feasibility of the project. the ability to match the availability of housing to the tenant demand in the particular community will also go a long way toward reestablishing the viability of state housing projects which are experiencing financial difficulties. this will allow the state or local agency an opportunity to eliminate vacancies due to lack of eligible tenants and bring the mortgages out of their financial straits. it will help reestablish the credibility of the state or local agency funding of housing projects on which our current housing programs for disadvantaged persons are so heavily dependent. and all of this would be done at added cost to the federal government.
. i just wish to comment on a few of the items. first. let me include senator proxmire himself in the very pleasant and agreeable comment he made about senator mathias. this is a singularly fortunate team for housing. and while senator proxmire writes with a very sharp pencil. he is also a man of great humanity. fairness. and understanding. and it is reflected in many of the aspects of this bill. might i say to my colleagues. first. i hope very much the senate will support the $550 million provided by the senate committee for the operation of lowincome housing projects. the main reasons for it. as far as we are concerned in the largest city in the country and in five other cities of major character in new york state. are that there has been a tremendous increase in operating costs attributable to a cause absolutely beyond the control of those handling these public housing projects and lowincome housing projects. and that is the fuel cost increase which is an absolutely crushing burden attributable to one except the affairs of the world. we welcome the performance standards for local housing authorities operating owned units. which is referred to in the committee report. but the fact is that when performance. matter how grand and efficient. can help you. only money can do it. and the committee. therefore. very intelligently and understandingly has provided some additional money. so i hope very much. and i appreciate very much what the committee has done and hope very much. it will be supported in the senate. on aher matter. very briefly. we are very glad to see the government national mortgage association. the socalled ginnie mae. referred to by the committee in the following language: the department is urged to make these funds available for all programs covered. both conventionally and federally insured single and multifamily units. we especially emphasize the latter because that has  been the ongoing policy of ginnie mae. they have tended to favor single family units. obviously this is  almost a completely urban country with about 75 percent of our people living in cities. hence. the recognition of the committee that multifamily units need to be covered becomes very critically important. especially at a time when it is so very difficult to get money for the multifamily projects or the multifamily mortgage that needs it. so we appreciate very much this thoughtfulness by the committee. and i would sort of like to k here on the floor. as well as in the committee report. the extent of the strength of the conviction of the housing subcommittee on that particular subject.
. i. too. have joined as a cosponsor and strongly urge this amendment upon the senate. for this reason. secretary hills. who is new. a very bright woman. very deeply involved. and has her heart really in this work. appeared before the joint ecoic committee. of which i am the ranking.senate member. senator proxmire was there. she made a very strong point about many things in the housing bill which she felt should have been granted to her department. but in the final analysis. she came down hard on the fact that she was simply being stripped of the means to do the job she wanted to do which involved so much personal service. as the senator has outlined. in the appraisal of properties. the consideration of properties. the emous amount of detail. i k of department. by the way. in which you get into the nittygritty as you do in hud. her feeling about the matter was so sincere. so expert. and so persuasive that i really think it gives a special dimension within the consciousness and hearing of the manager of the bill himself. because he was there and challenged her very sharply. she stuck to her guns. and i really think it was very impressive. i join senator stevenson in the hope that in view of the fact that she is a new secretary. she has a monumental job. that this is one of the keys to recoveryhousing. it is in very bad shape in this country. and the government has a lot to do with it. as we all k. i would hope very much the managers might. in that spirit and for that reason. accept this amendment.
one of the big things mrs. hills made a point ofand i hope i am  being charged with discriminating either for or against herwas that she was trying to reach 400.000 lowerincome housing units under section 8. the committee has given her back the money she needs to do it in terms of the financing. and she has pleaded for the necessary staff. i think that is such a desirable objective. and a new program. that we ought to go along with her. that is my reason for my strong support of this amendment.
. this is an amendment which i regret. very much. in the interest of my own community and every other community in the country. that i have to propose. but realities exceed my own regret in this matter. what it does is expand the discretion. on the basis of the finding of fact. of the secretary of hud to deal with the insurance of mortgages in the fha programs other than section 8i shall explain that in a minutefrom 45 percent. which it  is. to 75 percent. the fact is that there is just market. ability for a guaranteed mortgage in the high cost areas at this 45 percent. the limit has to be raised. as i say. it is regrettable. because all it means is an emous increase in the cost of both labor and materials which has been suffered in the housing field. but these are the facts of life. . this is an amendment that was considered by the committee in this way: we proposed originally the same idea that is contained in section 8. that is that cost limits be based upon a prototype. that is. what is the actual cost in given areas of a prototype construction such as is being insured by fha. the committee considered that and i think was rather favorable to it. but the fha decided that it would rather proceed along the pattern  existing in lawto wit. the percentage limits which i have just describedrather than on the prototype idea which is contained in section 8. in order to deal with that problem. we had to go this route. and i am able to say  that the department has objection to this amendment. i hope it will be accepted.
. the senator has just outlined for us a very grievous and dangerous situation. the housing finance agencies in a number of states. including my state. which. unhappily for us. has a very grave financial problem. are having their difficulties in refinancing. just like the problems of the city of new york and the state of new york. there is doubt that a municipality or a state will pay its debts. the question is. when. the rollover problem and the scheduling problem are the critical ones. also. the added dimension which is given by a u.s. government guarantee in the present market. even though it will cost the government hing. as a matter of fact. bankers in new york have figured outand they will present their case to the federal governmentthat about $1.5 billion in premiums can be earned by the united states on these guarancxx--1998part 24 * tees. because this has turned out to be a very profitable proposition for our country. however. the addition in federal credit makes the bonds viable which are otherwise  viable. even though there never would be collection. and we could pay them in periods of time to assure that. the point i wish to emphasize is that the taxability of these state obligations and local obligations then is acquired by the federal government. and that is something which a great many people have been trying to break through with for a very long time. what i would like to put to the manager of the conference report is this: as to the guarantee under section 802. hud is supposed to make rules and regulations. and so forth. so far as i k. they have  actually moved along that line at all. those bonds. if turned into taxable bonds. can be eligible for a guarantee. so. first. i urge the senator. as chairman of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairsand as a member of the appropriations committee for this subcommitteeto use the legislative oversight authorities which are available in both committees for the purpose of seeing that hud does what it needs to do to make section 802 operative while it is needed. this is when it is needed. this is when the guarantee is useful. this is when we have a very serious countrywide situation. the other point is that the senate saw fit to provide $35 million for interestreduction payments--and i refer in that respect to pages 12 and 13 of the original committee report on this bill. which is marked calendar  319. i ask unanimous consent that the excerpt on this particular subject be made a part of my remarks.
in addition. i understand that the applications would indicate that there is more than 50 percent applied for for new construction. we have checked those figures out. what i wish again to suggest to the senator is that a sharp eye be kept on this so that rehabilitation is frustrated because it gets out of balance as between reation and rehabilitation and new construction. if the committee perceives that there is going to be an inadequate amount applied for in new construction. or in needed rehabilitation rather than let that lie fallow and  be acted on. i suggest that an effort be made to correct the situation to meet the need. because of this tremendous contribution which housing and the employment of those in the building trades can make to our recovery from this recession.
. recipients of the ssi program. the social security program. who become eligible to reside in section 8 projects will lose practically all their ssi benefits. since in my state and in many other areas section 8 housing assistance payments are almost equal to the ssi payments. : thus there would be a situation where the aged. the blind. and the disabled would lose their social security payments which are needed to maintain them even at the low standard of living because they at long last were able to get decent housing under the section 8 program. my amendment--i should say our amendment. senator brookes and mineclarifies the situation by amending the housing act of 1937 to provide that assistance payments made with respect to a dwelling under the housing act of 1937 shall  be considered as income or as a resource for the purposes of determining eligibility under the social security act or any federal law. this will make clear with regard to public housing programs and. particularly. section 8 programs that assistance under the public housing programs would  be counted in determining eligibility under ssi. i believe the amendment will treat all participants in federal housing programs equally. as i have just mentioned. and this concern which hew has shown is  the case respecting the other programs. that is. 235. 236. and standard public housing and. therefore. it should  be the case either under the new section 8 program. and i propose the amendment in order to make that clear.
i think the senator raises a very proper question. but the policy which we have laid down as far as rent supplements. et cetera. are concerned. 235. 236. and the regular standard housing program. establishes that policy. we will  tax the recipient of social security for what benefit he gains in this way. therefore. we have a new program  directed toward depriving these unfortunates of any part of their benefits. but was directed toward enabling them to get into a better condition as far as housing is concerned. the equity of penalizing these particular ones who happen to be. by the way. the most desirable. the aged. the blind. the disabled. et cetera. would seem to run contrary to the general policy we have already adopted in the housing act. might i say to the senator that i have such confidence in his sense of fairness and equity that i appreciate what he said. he will go along. the senator will take it to conference. i am sure he will find it stands up.
. fully 8 years after passage of this landmark legislation. equality of access to housing is still unfortunately an unfulfilled promise for many americans. each year in april. the office of fair housing and equal opportunity in the department of housing and urban developmentthe office charged with administering and enforcing the fair housing law. attempts to make americans aware of their rights and responsibilities under the law and to encourage all americans to practice the letter and spirit of the law. on april 2 of this year. in a ceremony at the department of housing and urban development in commemoration of fair housing month. mr. james h. blair. assistant secretary for fair housing and equal opportunity delivered remarks that eloquently summarized the case for fair housing in the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the text of mr. blairs remarks of april 2 be printed in the record so that my colleagues can share this statement of americas fair housing pledge.
i ask the following of the distinguished manager of the bill: at page 50. with relation to item  450. a statement is made respecting state housing finance agencies. the statement would imply an exclusion of anything that might be done under section 802 of the housing act for such agencies. i understand the committee does  intend that implication. it simply is  providing for it in the budget resolution. but if within the overall provision for community and regional development the appropriate committees may desire to authorize and appropriate additional money for state housing finance agency guarantees and interest subsidies. that would remain permissible within the view of the budget committee. is that correct.
. if i may have the attention of the managers of the bill. first. i commend the committee for the addition of a new section providing rental assistance payments for projects in foreclosure or threatened with foreclosure. however. this assistance would be available only to those projects which are insured under the national housing act. and i call the attention of the committee to aher problem which exists in new york and other areas of the country. both new york state and new york city have undertaken to provide lowand moderateincome housing through state and locally assisted programs. rising operating costs have placed these projects and their tenants in jeopardy. with tenants paying substantially more than 25 percent of their income for rent. i believe that the secretary of housing and urban development should be encouraged to respond to localities which wish to use section 8 subsidies in state and local housing projects where the subsidy is needed to help that project. this should  involve a large expenditure of section 8 funds. and i believe it would be very helpful in many cases. it is my understanding that funds would be available for this purpose and that hud could do this even though existing regulations are silent on the subject. i say to the senator from wisconsin that i started by pointing out that i like what the committee is doing about rental assistance payments for projects in foreclosure or threatened with foreclosure. the questions i asked. where the regulations are silent. relate to using section 8 subsidy funds in order to help in state or city projects. i believe it is consistent with the same principle which the committee has wrapped into the bill with respect to federally insured projects in foreclosure or threatened with foreclosure.
it is confined to the mortgage limits for fha multifamily insurance programs. it simply means facilitating the construction of this type of apartment which. considering the large numbers of people involved in big cities. is a key proposition.
. is extremely serious from the standpoint of the citys inability to meet a significant housing need. the city housing administration has attempted to meet the growing demand for small units in housing properties financed by state or local mortgage loans by including efficiency apartments. but. because of escalating costs. these are longer marketable without section 8 help and often. they are inappropriate for either elderly or handicapped singles because of features of design or location. although they are eminently suitable for the single working poor. the working poor who could occupy them are ineligible for section 8 subsidies. so. says the new york administrator. an excellent stock of new housing remains virtually unmarketable while the demands of a substantial housing market remain unmet. under these circumstances. the department was asked by senator proxmire what ought to be done about this. i should like to read. as i have it. the reply to him which leads to this amendment which i have proposed. first. to read the amendment which the clerk could  do: the third sentence of section 3(2) of the united states housing act of 1937 is amended by striking out the word "and" before "(c)" and inserting before the semicolon the following. "and (d) other single persons in circumstances described in regulations of the secretary." this is what the department. as i understand it. thinks about it: at present. only certain classes of single individuals are eligible for admission to housing assisted under the u.s. housing act of 1937. these include over 62 years of age. those who are disabled or handicapped. and displacees. also. single persons are eligible to remain in assisted housing when they are the remaining members of tenant families. this department has objection in principle to an expansion of eligibility to cover single persons generally. it should be recognized. however. that such an expansion would intensify problems in allocation of a relatively limited supply of appropriate units and could operate to reduce housing opportunities for other groups. particularly the elderly. accordingly. should legislation along the lines of s. 3143 which you have submitted be enacted. we would recommend that it be modified so as to provide that eligibility of single persons other than those currently eligible be made expressly subject to regulations of the secretary. this is exactly the amendment which i propose.
i can say that. what it comes from. to me. is the representation of the housing administration in new york city itself. i would like to read that again. if i may. after stating that those who are eligible . "although they are eminently suitable for single working poor. that population is ineligible for section 8 subsidies" the letter goes on: "this legal restriction"-the one to which we referred-"is extremely serious from the standpoint of the citys inability to meet a significant housing need. hda has attempted to meet the growing demand for small units in housing projects financed by mitchelllama mortgages or municipal loans by including efficiency apartments. however. because of escalating costs. these are longer marketable without section 8 and frequently"-this is the key word-"frequently inappropriate for elderly or handicapped singles because of features of design or location. although they are eminently suitable for single working poor. that population is ineligible for section 8 subsidies."
. i modify my amendment as follows. and i shall read the amendment as modified and then send it to the desk. the third sentence of section 3(2) of the united states housing act of 1937 is amended by striking out the word "and" before " (c) " and inserting before the semicolon the following and (d) other single persons circumstances described in regulations of the secretary provided that in event shall more than ten percent of the units under the jurisdiction of any public housing agency be occupied by single persons under this clause (d) provided further that in determining priority for admission to housing under this act the secretary shall give preference to those single persons who are elderly. handicapped. or displaced before those eligible under this clause (d).
this is  a standing committee. the senator interpreted it that way. but the jurisdiction is so narrow. every one of the other agencies the senator referred to does  have a counterpart executive agency. in short. there is agency in the federal government for consumers. here we have a unique situation. there is a federal agency doing exactly what we do. but that federal agency does  do exactly what the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs does. it goes very much further in a different direction.
. on my time or the senators time. however the senator wishes it. i referred to the fact that this amendment is directed to section 502 (a) of the housing act of 1948. which gives the general authority to the secretary of housing and urban development to use such sums as may be necessary to carry out functions-
there is money in my amendment. but it is offered to implement the authority for such sums as the secretary may need to carry out his functions. powers. and duties under section 502(a) of the housing act of 1948. so that. technically. it can get by the point of order stage. that is the only reason i did it this way and i could legitimately raise the issue involved here. in other words. i agree. i am using the technical way in which to get by the issue of the point of order. but the purpose of the $4 million. if ever authorized in law. would be for the purpose we are discussing. may i say to the senator that as to precedent. obviously. where property is in the trouble that this is in. where we invest. this is the only thing we can do. we are advised both by hud itself and by the local community that they could. within a matter of days or a week or so. be out of business. that is the only reason i have asked and been so explicit about the conferees. i may say aher thing. it is possible. withstanding senator proxmrres legal opinion and mine. that the comptroller general may find differently after review. i have  made the legal analysis. although the language seems to me to be very clear. i have  made the legal analysis which is made in this particular statute. for all i k. in a legal opinion. in some detail. the comptroller general might very well disagree. in which case we would be out of business. that is the only plea i can make. the senator ks it as well as i do.
i. too. wish to express my appreciation to the chairman and the ranking miity member of the subcommittee. and to endorse the statements made by senator kennedy. i have been very close to and watched the program in new york. at bedfordstuyvesant. very carefully. i say there are a few things we have learned in the antipoverty effort since it began in the 1960s. and one of those. of course. was the remarkable acceptance of the legal services program which caused us to institutionalize it into a corporation. and the other is the extraordinary receptivity of miity communities to the community development program to which hopefully we will add this sum. i might say that the danger to such programs is. one. a failure to be practical. and this i have iced in bedfordstuyvesant particularly. they are under construction in various housing improvements. they cleaned up blocks by selfhelp of small private houses. so instead of being slums they are decent living quarters. they have helped to police the area. their own headquarters is a reconstructed milk bottling plant. it is  a lovely office building which has every prospect of paying its own way. they have continued to enlist the best of the highest cut of business talent in new york. withstanding a conflict that developed within the community. a danger of all these organizations is internal conflict within the miity group itself. it has survived that and managed  to lose any of the topflight new yorkers who have been members of the boards. i think this is an extraordinary record. they have a very gifted director in a man named franklin thomas. a very gifted chairman of the board. by the way. a man who has been so helpful to us in benc. schmidt. and others. sterling new yorkers. so much so. . that i ask unanimous consent to include the list of the directors of the bedfordstuyvesant corporation. there:being objection. the directory was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
it is very interesting to me that in the congressional statement of policy respecting the department of housing and urban development little distinction is made between the smallest communities and the largest cities. withstanding the obvious differences of the problems which are at stake. i ask unanimous consent that that may be made part of my remarks and printed in the record.
my staff points out to me that the provision respecting ginnie mae at page 35 again is based upon an assumption that the administration is  going to release some $2 billion or any part of it relating to the ginnie mae operation.  housing is. as the senator i am sure ks. one of our hardest hit propositions. many of us are piling in on the administration. as it were. to release some of that money. the house of representatives does have a provision in its budget resolution different from that of the senate. assuming this bill passes as it is. i only hope that the senator. senator bellmon. and their conferee colleagues. will look at this thing also from the point of view of the developing ecoic situation and will  be. as it were. finally concluded on it because it is still going to be a few weeks before it is finally decided. and the housing situation could remain very sticky and the administration could have a different view upon any release. i simply lay that on the table for the very same reason i did with the unemployment situation so that the senate and my colleagues may be informed on that situation.
and last. and also very importantly. the senator makes change in the limitations on the professional services which members may render. which is found at page 28. line 16 to line 19. that is. a senator may . to earn anything. act as an engineer. a real estate agent. an insurance agent. an attorney. a physician. an architect. a consultant. or activities of a similar character. is that correct.
. this amendment deletes the "workable program" requirement for the purpose of -securing mortgage insurance under section 220 of the national housing act. the reason for this amendment is that in 1974. when the community development program was established. urban renewal was folded into that program and the workable program requirement. which was entirely in order when we had an urban renewal program per se. was longer required for community development funding. however. the workable program requirement still applies in section 220 mortgages and it is simply anachronistic. something that has hung on because we did  take care of eliminating it. it does cause considerable difficulty because the statutory language still prevents people who would otherwise be eligible for insurance under section 220 of the national housing act from getting it. therefore. i understand that hud is in favor of this amendment and there is simply a need to eliminate an anachronistic requirement.
. in this particular matter. there have been letters exchanged respecting various real estate interests of mr. solomon. i have read those very carefully. it is my judgment that. under the circumstances of these letters. and so on. i do  wish to interpose any objection.
. were increased by the bill for singlefamily dwellings where there are five in the family or more from $29.000 for the mal cost areas to $40.000 and from $33.000 for highcost areas to $46.000. so it is certainly logical that the twofamily houses which the committee itself feels have been overlooked should get these higher mortgage limits. a good example happens to be in boston and new york. in new york we have brownstones which are  mostly twofamily dwellings. and that results in doubling the housing stock as it originally was constructed. and in boston i understandand senator brooke will correct methere is housing called doubledeckers.
. this presents two parts of a technical problem. again. king our colleagues who are managing the bill as well as i do. i k they will help me to screen out what they feel is desirable and what they feel is undesirable. if there is any part of it which they find unsatisfactory. our problem relates to the low average per unit amount which can be com3puted into the socalled ginnie mae tandem plan which carries the names of a very distinguished republican. senator brooke. and a very distinguished democrat. senator cranston. this program presently limits mortgages which can be purchased by onma to those  exceeding an average amount of $42.000 per unit. we have found that in respect of section 8 housing where we dealt with multifamily projects suitable for large families in highcost areas this amount is too limited. therefore. we propose that in those high cost areas the average be raised to $49.000. that is one part of the amendment. the other part of the amendment. which is also confined to section 8 housing. deals with the sales price of such housing. which is  limited in the law to $52.000 in high cost areas. for the same reasons i argued in respect of the first part of this amendment. we believe that it should go up to $55.000 for section 8 housing in high cost areas. i would like to submit both parts of this amendment to my colleagues and hope very much they will agree to the amendment.
. i offered such an amendment in 1976. it has worked out very well. the facts and figures seem to accommodate the fact that it should  be increased from the 10 percent to 20 percent as a limit. in new york a quarter of the households are  single persons. and many of them are  elderly or handicapped. the single elderly are frequently among the working poor. they are salespeople. kitchen help. clerks. and steraphers. yet they do  earn sufficient income to find satisfactory housing. their options for housing are bleaksubstandard housing. rundown hotels. or deteriorated apartments. subsidized housing is available that is appropriate for these singles. new york has many efficiency and onebedroom units that are  suitable for families. and they are often  suitable by design or location for occupancy by the elderly. so as a result. new york has housing stock that is difficult to market while the demands for adequate housing remain unmet. my amendment to increase the limit to 20 percent will provide sufficient flexibility to hud and to local housing authorities to meet the needs of the single elderly while at the same time insuring that the needs of the elderly. handicapped. and displaced are addressed as the law requires. i think it has been very carefully limited. i hope the committee will accept the amendment.
. i oppose this amendment. i k senator magnuson has been wonderful in many things. but i believe this is very unfair. taking it out of the hides of the children who come from public housing projects which are federally financed. we had a tremendous battle getting them in because the fact is that a big block of money goes to impact aid. impact aid will be run in a different manner. we will soon see. when senator magnuson presents his amendment.
the senator is eliminating from tier 2 the public housing children. which means that the public housing children will only get 25 percent of what they would otherwise get if they were included in tier 2. they would get 57 percent. so the senators amendment is cutting out the u.s. public housing children in a way which is very discriminatory to them.
