. whether you believe the greenhouse effect has already begun or has  yet begun is  the point. recognizing that there will always be scientific uncertainties. our challenge is to develop an action plan that avoids making the problem any worse while we work to resolve the uncertainties. at the very least. we will have to change the way we use fossil fuels and to stop the destruction of forests around the world. a couple of years ago. i visited brazil where my colleagues and i met with numerous government officials. scientists. and citizens concerned with the related problems of deforestation and the greenhouse effect. one of the lessons i took away from those talks was that a crucial element of any international plan to solve these problems must be a recognition of. and respect for the sovereignty of each nation. we must also appreciate that the pressures on developing countries that are trying desperately to improve the standard of living for millions of impoverished and frequently homeless people. are much different than those facing the industrialized world. the lesser developed countries have many problems that demand their immediate attention. to many of their government officials. environmental protection is a luxury only to be addressed in the long term after they have dealt with housing. health care. education. jobs. food. sao paolo is a sprawling urban center of 16 million people. the problems there overwhelm brazilian officials and the preservation of the rain forest slides down their priority lists. an additional problem is the fact that developing countries are suspicious of our motives. they see how the industrialized nations have expanded and developed at the expense of the environment. . suddenly after we have gotten ours they hear us telling them that the worlds pollution quota has been used up and they can develop. one can deny that we in the united states of america need to do a better job in our share of protecting the global environment. we do  come to the table with clean hands. the threat of global climate change as a result of the greenhouse effect is a good example of this problem. yes. brazilian deforestation contributes to the greenhouse effect in two ways. first. the burning of trees and other vegetation releases tremendous .s4892 amounts of carbon dioxide. second. deforestation eliminates. trees which previously absorbed carbon dioxide produced elsewhere. as trees grow they absorb co2 and hold it until they decay or are burned. this absorption capacity is called a "sink". the oceans are the other major sink for co2. but destruction of the amazon only contributes an estimated 7 percent to the greenhouse effect. by comparison. the united states. is responsible for more than 20 percent of the greenhouse effect through our automobiles and wasteful use of electricity which we demand. it is producedusually by burning coal or oil. we can sit here and point fingers or assign blame. if we expect to have any credibility with brazil and other developing countries. we must: first. reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases. such as methane. and second. stop the destruction of our old growth forests. at the same time. we need to make our best techogies available to developing countries so that they may develop without repeating the mistakes of our past. shortly after jose lutzenberger. a world famous environmentalist. was named brazils secretary of environment in 1990. i had the pleasure of hearing him speak. mr. lutzenberger referred to the developed countries as the overdeveloped countries. he makes an excellent point when he es that our planet can afford to have the entire world develop in the excessive manner that the industrialized nations have done to date. for example. consider private automobiles. today we have 350 million private cars in the world. if all of the developing countries were to duplicate the level of automobile ownership that we have in the united states. europe. and japan. that number would  be 350 million but nearly 3 billion private cars. when you extrapolate to the next 30 or 40 years. when the world population is projected to reach 10 billion people. the number of cars would increase from 3 to 7 billion private cars. it is unthinkable to have a planet with that many cars spewing carbon dioxide and other pollutants into the atmosphere. i am confident that. just as we have managed to make tremendous progress on our domestic environmental agenda. we will succeed in meeting the new challenges that are presented by the global environmental agenda. yes. we have our problems. but we can deal with them and turn them into opportunities. the rio conference will start us on the road to solving these problems. to meeting these opportunities.
