 appointed the displaced persons commission under the law which was approved on june 25. 1948. by december 31. 1948. 3.415 visas had been issued under the displaced persons act. third. the problems encountered in the administration of the refugee relief act are divided into three parts: first. an obsession with security beyond any reasonable requirement in the terms of the law considering the fundamental objectives sought by the legislation. second. necessary screening and security clearance of united states employees and limitations imposed on the administrator in that respect. and. third. delays incident to requirements placed by the act on foreign governments in whose territorial limits visas are granted under the act. these are dealt with in the following paragraphs: (a) problems of the enabling act. the act itself has very tight security provisions insofar as escapees and refugees are concerned. providing for a double security immigration check of a very strict character. under section 11 (a) of the act. a special investigation and written report is required regarding the aliens character. reputation. mental and physical health. history. and eligibility for emigration. this is quite apart from the rigid inspection and showing of full compliance with the present immigration law to be made to the consul for a visa which must be done in addition to this special investigation provided by the refugee relief act. this act calls for a special report with complete information regarding the history of the alien covering the period of at least 2 years immediately preceding his application for a visa. a provision which may be waived only on recommendation of the secretaries of state and defense. escapees and refugees to be admitted must have assurances by a citizen or citizens of the united states. rather than a voluntary organization. that the escapee or refugee will be suitably employed without displacing some other person from employment. that the escapee or refugee and his family will  become public charges and that they will have housing without displacing some other person from such housing. this requirement is  imposed upon immigration preference cases. such an assurance is difficult to come by for escapees or refugees. because voluntary organizations which gave most of similar assurances under the displacedpersons law are  permitted to give these assurances and. hence. must go out and get individual citizens to give them. the administrator states that he has as of about april 1. 1954. received a total of 2.828 assurances of which 404 apply to those of german nationality. (b) the special security report called for by the act requires large staffs. and one of the greatest delays in connection with the administration of the act is in the recruitment and security clearance of this staff. i believe that as the program first began in august 1953 there was a great reluctance by the administrator and perhaps even a selfimposed restriction to hire for positions anyone who had worked in the administration of the displaced persons act. a statement had been contained in the report of the senate committee on this bill at page 8 of its report reading as follows: the committee directed that there be included in the report language to the effect that those who occupied policymaking positions in the administration of the dp act did . in the judgment of the committee. engender complete public confidence in their administration. and the committee would look with disfavor upon their designation for the administration of the policies of the instant act. in practical effect. were such a restriction to have been adopted. it would be given thereby a force which is greater than the force of law because if this were a congressional enactment. it could be repealed or changed. but being the declaration of a committee it would appear to be effectively frozen into policy if the administrator so wills it until the committee should again choose to speak to the subject. the administrators office informs me that employees of the displaced persons commission have been hired. yet. the displaced persons admitted under that program showed. considering the numbers involved. an outstanding record of integration and adaptability and there were relatively few bad ones who were admitted. there seems to be an attitude of question about all former employees of the displaced persons commission with the implication that their security attitude was  strict egh. any such generalization can only impede the effective and prompt carrying out of the refugee relief act of 1953. we are helped by a statement in the first semiannual report of the displaced persons commission as to its personnel policy: among the commission personnel  serving overseas as selectors and case analysts are people comprising an excellent cross section of american life. representing 33 states. with varied backgrounds. such as employment counselors formerly with united states employment service or civil service. former army intelligence officers. former immigration officers. former federal bureau of investigation agents. teachers. social workers. and persons experienced in agriculture. industry and commerce. a high percentage of the overseas staff are veterans of world war ii. many of whom had served in the occupied areas of europe. the freedom of selection of personnel permitted by the act allowed the commission to accomplish this result under emergency circumstances. clerical and subordinate positions such as clerks. typists. drivers. interpreters. whereever practicable. have beenfilled by indiges personnel paid for in germany from the local ecoy and in austria at rates prescribed by the united states army. for certain clerical and secretarial positions. however. only american employees are entirely satisfactory and for that reason at least one american secretary or administrative aide has been assigned to each operating center. it is to be ed that the senate bill as passed provided for the establishment of an office of emergency migration to be headed by an emergency migration coordinator. an arrangement analogous to the displaced persons commission which handled the dp act. the house bill. however. and the ultimate conference report provided for administration of the act to be in the state department and specifically in the bureau of security and consular affairs. hence. such circumscribing of the personnel hiring authority of the administrator could  have been contemplated under the form which the legislation finally took and any such restriction would impede seriously the recruitment of skilled and efficient personnel to administer this act. (c) one of the aspects of the refugee relief act of 1953 which presented difficulty is a provision in section 7 (d) thereof that visa shall be issued to an alien unless he has a certificate guaranteeing his readmission to the country in which he obtains the visa under this act if it is subsequently found that he obtained the visa under this act by fraud or by misrepresenting of a material fact. austria. france. japan. greece. italy. and the netherlands have agreed. the german federal government only agreed on april 1 and the austrian government shortly before then. it is eworthy that this requirement is also enforced upon immigration preference cases which are admitted under the refugee relief act of 1953 and has only been relieved under the bill  pending in the senate. h. r. 8193. as to orphans. such a provision should certainly  be binding upon preference cases either. who would  otherwise be bound to such a requirement if they came in as preference cases under the immigration law. it is essential if the objectives of the act are to be realized to work out a proper relationship under the program with voluntary agencies like the national catholic welfare conference. the church world service. the hebrew immigrant aid society. the american friends service society. and other organizations which were active under the displaced persons legislation. these organizations in working to implement the act. will be helped particularly if the need for getting assurances from individual citizens as to housing and a job which has slowed them up in getting such assurances is revised to permit the voluntary agencies to give such assurances. the fine objective of the united states in the refuge relief act of 1953 was to attract away skilled and desirable people from behind the iron curtain by encouraging them to expect good treatment and resettlement if they came over into the west. these escapees do  generally have friends or other connections in the united states. hence. the voluntary organizations have to go out and find individual citizens willing to give the assurances as the assurances of the organizations themselves are  accepted under the act. the assurance of housing and a job is very hard to keep good for an adequate period of time for an escapee or refugee for as long as it takes to get a visa and for the alien to travel to the united states. in addition. there is assurance that the alien once here can keep that particular job or that particular home. it would seem to be adequate if there was an assurance satisfactory to the administrator from a voluntary organization according to the practice successfully followed under the displaced persons law. that the alien would  become a public charge and that he would have a job and be housed without displacing any american. it is exactly in the immigration preference cases which are exempted from this requirement that assurances of housing and a job can be the most easily given. while insistence upon these assurances from individual citizens in respect of escapees and refugees tends to discourage the flow of escapees into the free world from behind the iron curtain and is in effect a way to nullify the benefits which the united states has sought by this legislation. the provisions for refugees are also high policy of the united states as they the one of the basic problems of free europe. the intergovernmental committee for european migration of 22 nations wrestling with this problem sought the leadership of the united states in the resettlement effort to take its fair share of the refugees. the state department is authority for the statement that there are 2.500.000 unresettled escapees and refugees in western europe. these and similar problems make it essential that there be a much closer relationship between the voluntary organizations and the administrator of the act and. in view of the terms of the administration of the act. this can best be achieved through the creation of a high level advisory committee to the administrator.
