 to declare may 6. 1972. "clean up america day." all of us in the congress have. at one time or aher. spoken out on the critical environmental problems facing the country. we k that the preservation and protection of our environment is a top priority for the american people and the people of the world. the concern of the american people to clean up our land. to restore its original beauty. clearly exists. but we must  foster that concern into constructive action. by proclaiming may 6. 1972. as "clean up america day" my colleagues and i are  asking for speeches or massive expressions of concern. we are calling for action. we are calling for millions of people across this land to undertake useful projects to enhance their physical surroundings. on "clean up america day" we call upon every state and local government to mobilize work projects to clean our city streets and parks. our highways and waterways. we also call upon corporations. governmental agencies at all levels. schools. colleges. and universities to lend manpower. equipment. and money to communities across the country as a constructive contribution toward the goal of a cleaner america. all of us own a precious share in this country. the preservation of our future will  be insured unless we make an investment  to protect what we have inherited from the past. to participate and to contribute is a basic credo of our nation. to engage in a helpful project on "clean up america day" would be to transform our past words into constructive action. earth day. april 22. 1970. was a massive expression of concern for the environment. "clean up american day" should be an active. working symbol oi our united desire to save our natural resources and enhance the beauty of ow nation. government alone can hea the damages already incurred. but a co. operation between government. privat4 industry. the academic community. an( the american people can. to confron reality and join forces against those wh. waste and litter our lands and waters i. a long road to travel. "clean up americi day." bringing together the efforts o millions and millions of americamn would be a fitting start on that journe3 i encourage the congress to furthe our commitment for a cleaner americ by promptly enacting this legislation.
