i thank the senator. i might say we will go into these points more deeply when we discuss the amendment of the senator from alabama. politically. these treaties will be for our benefit in other areas of the world besides panama. by approving these treaties. the united states strengthens our friends throughout the world while proving wrong those who are hostile to us and claim that we are a bullying imperialist power. approval of these treaties eliminates that argument of those disruptive forces in the hemisphere who see the panama canal issue as fertile grounds for cultivating seeds of antiamericanism. given the national security aspects of panama. and we discussed these briefly a minute ago. our military leaders have participated right from the beginning in the negotiations of these treaties. in order to insure that our military interests are protected. therefore. when the provisions of these treaties were made public. the joint chiefs of staff were unanimousevery single one of those generalsin supporting the treaties. i have been particularly impressed with the force and sincerity of the arguments supporting the treaties by the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. general brown. those who are familiar with general brown k that he is  in the remotest sense of the word what we would call a "political" general. therefore. we have to respect his word when he declares that in his personal opinion these treaties are in the best defense interests of the united states. that is the only issue he addressed. the defense interests of the united states. like every member of the senate. i have been struck by the depth of feeling throughout our states. throughout the nation. regarding these treaties. i must say i do  think there has been a single issue which has come before the senate in a good many years on which everybody in the united states seems to have a view. i suppose it comes from the fact that all of us in chapter 4 of our history books read about the panama canal. polls have disagreed on just what this public sentiment is. but it is clear. unquestionably. that these treaties are controversial. intensely controversial. when the voters send a representative to the house or a senator to the senate. that person is faced with a difficult philosophical dilemma. the question is simply. does he vote as public sentiment wishes. or. in those cases where there is public sentiment in conflict with his judgment. with his experience. does he vote as he thinks best in the interests of his state and his nation. . voting ones conscience sometimes places a public servant at loggerheads with a large number of his constituents. this obviously involves political risks and these political risks are  inconsequential. they can take the ultimate form of the politician being defeated. john f. kennedy. in his book. "profiles in courage." addressed this subject. when he said: perhaps if the american people more fully comprehended the terrible pressures which discourage acts of political courage. which drive a senator to abandon or subdue his conscience. then they might be less critical of those who take the easier roadand more appreciative of those still able to follow the path of courage. . trying to vote strictly according to the wishes of the people. while politically popular. also has its hazards. it is pretty hard to define exactly what is public opinion. because it is a changing. fluid element. so. what do we do. do we vote in accordance to the total amount of mail or the total number of telephone calls. should every new issue be subject to some survey. just like presidential campaigns seem to be. it does  seem to me that any of these options is the best way for a public official tomake up his mind. rather. it seems to me incumbent on each of us to bring all our individual experience and our judgment. our analytical abilities. whatever they might be. to bear on studying the issue. it would be irresponsible to make ourselves hostage to what we perceive to be "public opinion."
