. our distinguished colleague. congressman pelly. has performed an important act by introducing a bill to end the export of american goods to the soviet union and its iron curtain satellites. in the total "econuclear" war that khrushchev has threatened. such trade adds up to outright aid and comfort to the enemy. as the gentleman from washington has pointed out it is comparable to the sale of u.s. scrap iron to japan even as we hovered on the brink of world war ii. congressman pelly has painstakingly listed the commodities involved in our trade: machine cutting tools and parts. power transmission systems. conveying equipment and parts. ball bearings. textile machinery parts. electrical machinery parts. iron and steel scrap. petroleum field production equipment. aircraft ground and maintenance equipment and parts. and so on. a long and appalling itemization of materials which could one day be put to use to hurry our destruction. the united states is spending billions of dollars to provide a powerful deterrent force. second to e in the world. how ironic. indeed. that we continue to undermine this effort because our shopkeepers instinct is stronger than our will for survival.
 kennedy. said: a careful analysis of the sentinel system ... does  show that sentinel would provide protection against chinese nuclear weapons for very long unless we make some unbelievably naive assumptions about the chinesethat they do  have access to our journals and newspapers. for example. or that they are simply  thinking people. . the purpose of sentinel is even less clear since its deployment is being suggested as a lever to be used in bargaining with the soviets. in fact. however. these rationalizations are both meaningless and the latter counterproducing because moving forward on a thin missile system  may well encourage the military in moscow to stimulate expansion of its offensive arsenal. thereby beginning a progression of escalation that neither government will be able to stop. if either or both countries start a major new generation of missiles it could confirm the hardliners in the presidium. rigidify the diplomatic atmosphere. and reduce diplomatic options generally. the cost. of course. could devastate any plans for appropriations to meet the needs of the cities here at home and implementation of the yearold and largely unheeded recommendations of the riot commission report. the initial price of the expanded abm system is  estimated at well over $10 billion and could lead to an eventual expenditure in excess of $100 billion. many voices will be raised in support of the abm by the militaryindustrial complex but i strongly believe that this is the time to move the world away from the risks of nuclear confrontation. further. article vi of the nuclear proliferation treaty soon to be taken up by the senate states that the nuclear powers will undertake "to pursue negotiations in good faith on effective measures relating to cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and to nuclear disarmament." as senator gore pointed out. for the united states to assent to the treaty and at the same time to build a defensive missile system would be an act of inconsistency evidencing very little good faith. this is the time to move instead toward negotiations and to give a much higher priority to the nations most pressing needs--education. jobs. decent housing. adequate health care. and the rebuilding of our cities. concern over national security must  create an obsession with hardware and the trappings of destruction in the backyards of our citizens. i would strongly urge that the defense departments current review of the abm program give searching consideration to its necessity. instead of simply its location. and that any decision be deferred pending talks with the soviets which i very much hope will lead to agreement.
. all of us hope that the new round of talks which begin soon in geneva will be successful and that they will produce agreements which lead to reductions in nuclear weapons and a reduced threat of war. such an outcome would enhance our own security and that of the world as a whole. i believe it is in our interest to preserve the existing arms control agreements while we search for more effective measures for restraining the arms race.
. all of us hope that the new round of talks which begin soon in geneva will be successful and that they will produce agreements which lead to reductions in nuclear weapons and a reduced threat of war. such an outcome would enhance our own security and that of the world as a whole. i believe it is in our interest to preserve the existing arms control agreements while we search for more effective measures for restraining the arms race.
. i wish to call to the attention of the senate this anniversary of the achievement of rumanian independence. through the relentless efforts of rumanian patriots. an independent rumanian dynasty was created exactly 101 years ago today. on may 10. 1866. under the leadership of prince charles. of hohenzollern. the rumanians declared their independence from the ottoman empire. after which the country enjoyed a long period of prosperity and progress. by the end of world war i. rumania had become an example of peace and stability in central europe. the situation changed in the closing months of world war ii. when russian troops moved into rumania to free it from the axis powers. they put loyal communists and moscowtrained cadre into local and national government positions. and. by 1945. the people of rumania were under a virtual stalinist dictatorship. but despite the iron hand of josef stalin and the continued occupation of soviet troops. the independent spirit of the rumanian people could  be quelled. unlike many of the other nations of eastern europe. the rumanian people and even their indiges communist leaders began to reject the moscowtrained leadership. as early as 1952. the communist party of rumania purged the "muscovite" faction. and began to lead their country on the path of truly rumanian national communism. in the more relaxed atmosphere in eastern europe which followed the death of stalin. the rumanian government concentrated on its own development. the leaders of rumania resisted efforts to include all eastern europe into a single ecoic bloc. they preferred to develop their own heavy industry and meet their own consumer needs. as a consequence of this independence. rumania has progressed from a nation which was 80 percent agricultural in 1945 to one of the most advanced industrial nations in europe. in foreign affairs. the rumanian government has established independent trade and diplomatic ties with a number of western nations. including britain. france. and the united states. and has voted independently of the soviet union on a number of issues in the united nations. in cultural affairs. rumania has sent cultural exhibits to the west. and was one of the first of the eastern european nations to open its borders to western tourists. western newspapers and other publications are readily available in rumanian cities. rumania today is playing an increasingly important role in world affairs. the rumanian people. who once served as a bridge between the roman and slavic worlds. are  an important meeting ground between two equally disparate worlds: western democracy and soviet communism. for those who believe bridges can and should be built between the two worlds. the example of rumania is heartening indeed. though their form of government may  meet with our approval. we must nevertheless have faith in their essential integrity and independence through trade and cultural contact and deeper understanding. to play a creative role in world affairs. it is therefore fitting that those who hold the cause of freedom in high regard should pause at this time to pay respects to the brave rumanian people.
. i would address a special plea to the leaders and the people of "biafra." colonel ojukwu. the leader of the eastern forces. is a sincere and dedicated man. with greater temperance i believe he could have made a singular and valuable contribution to the progress of a united nigeria. instead. he felt compelled to lead his people away from union and into a tragic and futile battle. . driven by fear and ingrained suspicions. colonel ojukwu and his followers have promised a fight to the end. one can respect his personal heroism. but it is  heroism to take millions of inent people to their deaths as well. it is  heroism to prepare for guerrilla war even after the population centers and transportation routes are taken by federal forces. it is  heroism to tie up the resources of a whole nation in extended conflict. or to condemn millions of civilians to a struggle for subsistence in the bush. in my view. and in the view of informed and impartial observers throughout the world. it is folly to continue this conflict. policy is better calculated to disrupt nigerian and african political and ecoic development for years to come. or to prevent the peaceful reintegration of the ibo people into a united and prosperous nigeria. it is my sincere hope that the leaders of the eastern states. and the reasonable men who remain there. will reconsider this decision. and will choose that course best designed to provide for the ultimate wellbeing of all the people of nigeria. then and only then will nigeria and the nations of africa and of the world be able to replenish and rebuild the wartorn areas. unhindered and unafraid.
. this coming sunday the city of canton. mass.. will celebrate its 175th anniversary. this is an important date for this community of more than 17.000 industrious citizens. canton has played an important role in the history of this nation. it was originally the site of a powder mill. founded by paul revere. which made gunpowder for the american forces in the revolutionary war and the war of 1812. canton was also the site of the nations first copper rolling mill. established by paul revere in 1808. this mill turned out the rolled copper for the famous statehouse dome in boston. and made the boilers for robert fultons first steamboat. today the plymouth rubber co. is cantons major employer. many other industries also thrive there. employing 6.500 people with an annual payroll of more than $50 million. the people of canton have long been concerned with the preservation of their scenic environment and recreational opportunities. part of the city is contained. within the blue hills reservation. providing swimming. fishing. hiking. riding. and a multitude of sports and entertainment for the people of the entire region. canton has a bright future. as well as an illustrious past. i am sure that senators will join me in saluting canton. mass.. on the occasion of its 175th birthday.
in referring for a further moment to the matter of relief and rehabilitation. let me say that i believe this question is an example of an emergency issue of great importance. both to the rest of the world and to the united states.  only does it involve important international relations affecting the conduct of the war and the condition of the people in occupied territories. but it involves serious financial questions for all nations contributing to. as well as for those benefiting from. its large expenditures. it is natural and appropriate that the united states will wish to help the people of the occupied territories in meeting their emergency needs for food. clothing. and shelter. it is equally clear that ncither the united states  the allies will be able to meet these needs fully or for an extended period. there is a serious limitation upon our capacity to supply these needs for foreign relief and rehabilitation in addition to supplying the needs of our own military and civilian population together with the needs of our allies represented in the lendlease program. any exaggeration of the extent to which the united states and others may supply the desired relief and rehabilitation of occupied territories is bound to lead to disappointment and to bitterness where precisely the opposite result should be the case. therefore. in this field in particular. there attaches great importance to early postwar planning and to preparation among the united nations. including the united states of america. to determine just what the procedures. the contributions. and the limitations to the relief and rehabilitation program shall be. in these three fields of emergency international policy it has been essential for many weeks that international action be taken. in my opinion it would have been helpful if the senate of the united states had expressed itself to some extent upon these issues. and had taken a more active personal part in the planning of the action. or if it had been given that opportunity. at least to a greater degree than was the case. by the executive. the need for continued planning exists. and it should be a part of any program of postwar activity. whether or  it becomes a part of the general peace negotiations. of the longterm postwar program. or is included expressly in any declaration of senatorial policy on the subject.
. today is the 41st anniversary of lithuanian independence day. on this occasion it is fitting that we who are blessed with the heritage of freedom pause for a few moments to consider the present plight of 3 million lithuanians  behind the iron curtain. and to express our fervent hope that one day lithuanians and other suppressed peoples may rejoin the free nations of the world. surely. few nations have suffered so terribly at the hands of oppressors. tragically. lithuania had only a period of 20 or so years of freedom. partly with american assistance. lithuanian patriots declared their national independence from czarist russia in 1918. during the years between the two world wars the young nation grew and flourished. its ties with the united states were close. then. in the dark days of world war ii. lithuania. like the other baltic states. became the helpless victim first of nazi and finally of soviet occupation. the united states does  recognize the forcible incorporation of lithuania and the other baltic states into the soviet union. by this policy. we express through diplomatic channels our indignation that the dream of freedom of a whole nation should be snuffed out by a ruthless conqueror. because the human channels between this country and lithuania are blocked by rigid censorship. we can only hope that on this day the messages of the free world will somehow reach the captive lithuanian people.
. may 31 will mark the 168th anniversary of the adoption of polands constitution. to the people of the united states. this occasion serves as an apt reminder of the sufferings of the polish people in their long struggle for national independence and survival. few nations in history have kn the agony that has been polands. and few peoples have displayed such heroism and steadfastness in resisting the forces of foreign tyranny. because of its unhappy geographic position. poland has often been the victim of invasion and dismemberment by ruthless and stronger neighbors. the last time was in 1939 when the armies of hitler and stalin crushed the country between them. although devastated by this infamous campaign. the polish people never ceased. during the grim years of world war ii. to fight for independence. the price was appallingly high. but the contributions made by polish men and women to the allied cause will never be forgotten. since that time. poland has been under the grim shadow of communist rule. like her other unfortunate neighbors behind the iron curtain she has had to endure ceaseless and methodical oppression from regimes backed by the armed might of soviet russia. yet. despite their precarious position. the polish people have  succumbed to the blandishments and threats of their communist masters. the poznan revolt of june 1956. which resulted in the establishment of a more moderate regime headed by wladyslaw gomulka. clearly demonstrated the fierce spirit of polish resistance. neither the objections of the soviet leadership  the threat of russian military intervention could force the poles to back down. and the result was some small measure of freedom for the nation. poznan was a spectacular defeat for world communism. it seriously damaged the presitge of the kremlin leadership and gave hope to other peoples behind the iron curtain that they too might achieve control of their destinies. although the gomulka regime has  fulfilled the expectations of 1956. its very existence serves at least to keep alive the promise of something better for poland. for the spirit of freedom which made possible its existence lives on. that this spirit will yet triumph is the hope of all who cherish the ideals and aspirations of free government.
. i am a cosponsor of the amendment that the senator from wyoming would seek to strike from the bill. my particular contribution to that restriction on our operations or activity in cambodia was the part dealing with the ceiling of 200 american personnel and 50 third country personnel of other countries. senator symington and i pooled our amendments. and the joint amendment was adopted by the committee on foreign relations by a vote of 10 to 3. as i recall: i disagree with hing that has been said in support of retaining the committee language in the bill. i would go a little further in some respects. it seems clear to me that we in congress  only have the right but also the duty to examine the cambodian question and to make our independent decision. i believe that in the circumstances we have a duty. before granting the request of the administration to find out what are the long range administration plans for cambodia. we should have this information in any event before we make current appropriations or current authorizations. we ought to k what. in the judgment of the administration. the proposed funding level would lead to in the future. we can make an intelligent decision ourselves unless we k that. the future administrations plans take on particular importance because we have evidence that has  been challenged in any way as to what the joint chiefs of staff consider necessary for a military solution in this small part of indochina. i am. of course. referring to the new york times article which the senator from missodri and the senator from arkansas mentioned. the joint chiefs say they are going to need 220.000 cambodians in the regular military establishment this year and a very large number in paramilitary forces establishment. moreover. they project a need for more than 800.000 cambodians under arms by 1977. under this plan. the cost to the united states will more than double over the next 5 years. i do  challenge the military judgment of the joint chiefs of staff as to what is necessary. but if the joint chiefs are correct on what is going to be necessary to achieve a military solution. then the policy of achieving that military solution is the wrong policy. the chairman has mentioned reportsand they have  been challengedthat the 170.000 currently in the cambodian military establishment will increase until by 1977 half that little countrys able bodied men will bear arms. and this militarization of cambodia will be done at the expense of the american taxpayer. the cambodian ecoy has already been virtually destroyed by the war. so we will be paying the cost of supporting 7 million cambodians. well. we should do so. if we put them into this position by means of our military aid. there would be a moral obligation on our part  to leave them. but the question facing us is whether or  we want to undertake that moral obligation. whether or  we want to undertake the moral responsibility for deciding if cambodia shall be on a war basis for the next generation. or indefinitely: that is what is involved here. it is  just a question of a little more money or a little greater strength. it is a question of making decisions  that will make inevitable american involvement or withdrawal. if we choose involvement. then the involvement will take on an indefinite character because there is other way. if the course projected by the joint chiefs of staff is followed. it is up to us to say 
i happen to support this action very strongly. i think it is most desirable for us to take this action . for all the reasons stated by the chairman of our committee. among those reasons. of course. is the importance of evidencing our emously strong interest in the preservation and strengthening of nato and of every component of nato. including. particularly. these two fine countries with which we are presently engaged. i see hing here at all that is going to hurt the interests of either one. i think the interests of both greece and turkey are going to be furthered by the working out of an agreement between them. i believe this resolution will be a very helpful step in that direction. i say this with criticism of people who have raised the objections that were raised before. among others. by the senator from missouri. based upon statutory law and our agreements for military assistance. i think. also. that the time has come when we would be well advised to take this first step. which i think will very quickly lead to other steps culminating in a solution in everyones interest. i thank my chairman up to. say. an hour and threequarters. to the senator from missouri.
the senator from new jersey responds: i do. i do most heartily agree with the senator from idaho. this is as far as we are concerned in the same vein. our action is in the same line of thought and principle as our action taken there. and it is the right thing to do. it is the right thing to do because of the panamanians. and it is the right thing to do because of the united states. we are  giving up anything that we have a secure hold on. we may be giving up some things that are illusions of security. but we are  losing our security. in fact. we are increasing it. so. on both grounds of idealism and of pragmatism. this is the right thing to do for the united states at this time. and one does  have to go into the history of our involvement from the beginning with a consideration of a canal at that general area has gone on for more than a century and a half i think. all of the actions that we have taken perhaps are actions that we might  be very proud of having spread out in the public view again. although most everybody ks about what happened in those days. but we do  have to upbraid ourselves for what went on in the past to justify our getting out . it is in our present interest to do this. we will. by this action. in my view. have a much more secure hold on the right of transit through the canal for our vessels in time of war and in time of peace than if we attempted to hold on under anything like the present arrangements. this is the way the senate should be looking at the matter. i take it we are here to express the best in america. but i do  think we are necessarily here to give away america. and the senator would agree to that. i am sure.  do we regard this as any such thing. we are here to preserve the right of transit for americans and the rest of the world. both in peace and for us in war. with the right of going to the head of the line. which the senator and i have insisted on from the beginning. on our first day of hearings. when secretary vance was testifying before us. he made the point. under our questioning. that these treaties provide for that. the issue aroused. of course. some concern and some statements made in panama required clarification. our committee made the claim that we would have to have that clarification. and it came about. through the joint statement of the president and general torrijos. which we recommend and which undoubtedly will be incorporated into the treaty as two parts amendments under the leadership of our majority and miity leaders. this is an affirmative actionand affirmative action in the interests of this country and in the interests of all that is good in our relations with the rest of the world. including panama and latin america especially. i do  berate the concerns that people have had about this as a possible expression or symbol of withdrawal. but that is  the way to look at it. it is  a withdrawal from anything that we have. it is  submitting to blackmail. a person takes precautions against catching a cold by dressing himself warmly in the wintertime. that is  submitting to blackmail from winter "coming down from the frozen th. driving his iron chariot forth." this is just commonsense. it is just commonsense.
 of the amalgamated clothing workers of america. cio. john l. savage. chief designing engineer of the hoover and grand coulee dams and consulting engineer to many foreign governments. and charles l. wheeler. executive of pope & talbot. a steamship company. at stake are the 1.075.000.000 people of the underdeveloped areas outnumbering the populations of both the highly industrialized areas and the regions controlled by the soviet bloc. five hundred million of these people have won national independence since the end of world war ii. the united states produces half of everything manufactured in the world but mines only onethird of the worlds output of 15 basic minerals. manganese and tungsten from latin america. africa. asia. chrome from turkey and the philippines. timber from brazil and chile. pulpwood and iron ore from labrador are all vital to our defense effort and are all the product of ecoic reconstruction and development according to the international development advisory boards program. sharply reduced reserves in our country of oil. copper. zinc. and iron ore due to the tremendous drain on our resources of world war ii. all demand this program in the interests of defense mobilization anyhow. these facts underline the conclusion of the report of the advisory board that the whole current ecoic pattern of underdeveloped regions could be revolutionized through a consistent investment flow from the western industrialized world of $3.000.000.000 a year. less than 1 percent of the national income of the united states and the countries of western europe.
i thank the gentleman for his kind words about this analysis which is to the credit of work done up in the foreign affairs committee far more than it is to me. it seems to me that we are at the fork in the road. if we assume that the only defense we have against communism is military then we dedicate ourselves to an ultimate military conflict. it is an axiom that an arms race leads to war. i do  think this axiom is invalid in this case if we dedicate ourselves solely to the arms race. i hope very much we will  and i do  believe we will. i believe the whole feeling of our people and of the people of the free world is against it. the question is then. how quickly can we make the turn from the major emphasis on our military operations. which are simply a shield. to releasing our ecoic and trade offensive and our effort to improve the standards of living in the underdeveloped areas of the free world. using our tremendous industrial power and that which we lead and which is so overwhelmingly superior to the whole communist bloc. if we make that turn we will be able more and more to wean the russian satellites away from them by the magnetic attraction of ecoics. we will be able to wean away every satellite. including communist china. if we pursue this ecoic cold war in the magnitude of which we are capable. when we have weaned away the satellites from the soviet union. and the soviet union stands alone. i do  think any of us much cares what kind of government the russian people wish to impose upon themselves. if they do wish to carry the yoke of communism. as the gentleman has so well described it heretofore. then they will carry it. if they do  they will shake it off. but if we wean away the satellites. the world will be free of this overhanging menace which has depressed the whole world and all its people and has been keeping them in constant fear of war.
. this is the first anniversary of the workers rebellion in east berlin. june 17. 1953. was the day upon which unarmed workers. outraged by the occupation by the red army and its communist east german puppet government of east berlin. stood against tanks and the vaunted might of the red army and expressed their disapproval of the red regime. a regime that is  only a domestic tyranny for east germany but also is preventing the unification of all germany and thus hindering germany in doing its full part in returning to the comradeship of nations as a unified nation and to help the rest of the free world attain peace and ecoic well being. two things. i think. need to be called to the attention of our country and the whole world: first. that men have  lost their courage and their heart. and that men who are outraged by this red tyranny as these east german workers werethis red tyranny like hitlers tyranny. and barbarous tyrannieshave always found men brave egh to stand up and protest against them. there is courage and there is bravery and there is a sense of outrage among the captives of the kremlin behind the iron curtain. the first thing. then. we must remember is that these men of east germany thought egh of their individual and human rights to stand up with bare hands against tanks and arms even of the most modern kind. some east german workers. as you k. were shot as a result of the workers rebellion of june 17. 1953. they are truly martyrs for freedom which will yet prevail everywhere. we saw the workers rebellion in east berlin through movies and television and news reports because of its proximity but we did  see the workers rebellions in czechoslovakia. poland. and other places where they were reputed to take place. the information seems to be reliable that they did take place. hence. let us draw from this the strength of feeling that it is possible to pull down the iron curtain and that given a suitable policy and implementation it can be defeated from within. that this is possible and practical. when american policy has liberation of the peoples behind the iron curtain as its objective it is  moongazing or dreaming. secondly and very importantly. we hear so many rosy statements about the paradise which the soviet union is creating. at the very least. all can see that when men stood up against tanks as these workers did in east berlin this is  only paradise to them but they preferred death to what they are enduring under the soviet masters. the soviets pretend their system is  good for capitalists. or owners of stock and bonds. that their system is good for workers. but when workers do what they did in east berlin. it should demonstrate convincingly to the whole free world that these soviet rulers and their communist puppets are imperialists. colonialists. occupiers. and conquerors. just like barbaric despots and totalitarians who have preceded them in history. that they are different. that they are just to be lumped with the hitler nazism of which they pretend to be such enemies.
i thank the senator from wisconsin.  sums of money. without strings attached. to be used for the purpose of encouraging escapees from behind the iron curtain-. turned out to be very useful in providing a fund to be drawn on when needed for specific purposes in that connection. i think i could present quite a list of that sort. for instance. the nato idea had its fundamental origin in the great interest in the congress occasioned by the great pressure on europe. both militarily and ecoically. certainly i shall never hesitateregardless of whether the administration in power represents my partyto present ideas which seem to me to be good. certainly all the members of this body are very anxious to back useful. effective. and constructive ideas and proposals. certainly all the brains capable of dealing soundly with foreign policy are  concentrated in the state department. that is  the tradition of our country. so i hope very much that  only from the congress. but also from all of the great talent existing elsewhere in our countryin the univcrsities. in the associations. in the unions. in the business organizations. and in the foundationsconstructive proposals will come. i hope all our people will feel free to develop their ideas for positive dynamic action on foreign policy. and that they will be aided constructively by those of us who serve in the congress. and who have a national. and. indeed. an international platform. as one member of this very august body. i hope very much that i shall have the privilege of doing so. and i am sure that my colleagues will do the same.
. peace will  be bought by surrender but peace. in my mind. will be attained if we shall take advantage of our responsibilities. and if the american people are given an opportunity to say that they expect to back these responsibilities as traditionally they have backed their sacred obligations always. with all the resources of the country. all of its prestige. as well as all its power. we. too. want peace. peace. peace. but we do  want a peace which can only lead into slavery or to a world war iii. i think we have  reached the bridge which we must guard in that respect.
. in spite of a communist prohibition. the people of rumania will remember the 10th of may as their traditional national holiday commemorating the independence they achieved in 1881. though the communist regime has suppressed all observances of this day within the country. people of rumanian extraction throughout the free world will celebrate this occasion. rumania won her independence from the ottoman empire at the end of the crimean war and established its kingdom several decades later in 1881. a relatively rich country in terms of natural resources and industrious people. with some of the most productive oilfields in history. rumania has been taken over by its enemies in both world wars and  is a captive state of the soviet union. but. in spite of ruthless oppression. the hope of independence still burns brightly in the hearts of the people. many of their blood relatives are americans and they have helped to keep alive that hope. i am happy to have this opportunity to add my voice to that hope.
 of the united states. the first congressional sessions were held during 178990. and our departments of government. including the treasury department. were first organized. the second would depict castle clinton as the last of a series of forts which. from the time of the dutch settlement in 1624. guarded lower manhattan. and was headquarters of gen. winfield scott during the war of 1812. the 150th anniversary of which is  being observed. the third would depict the american museum of immigration  being constructed so as to complete the base of the statue of liberty national monument. which will tell the story of the making of the united states by those who have come to our shores from all over the world. the bill calls for a total issue of more than 765.000 medals. to be issued over a period of 10 years. it is expected that they will be sold at the new york worlds fair in 196465. and at the three national historic shrine sites. and thereafter. through various other outlets for the benefit of the continuing operation and maintenance of the shrines. completion of the shrines has been estimated by the national park service to cost approximately $5.2 million. of this sum. congress has authorized $2.6 million. or onehalf of the cost. leaving an equal amount to be raised by the new york city national shrines advisory board and cooperating groups. as of august 1. 1963. the board reported. through rear adm. john j. bergen. chairman of its national fundraising committee. that it must still obtain subscriptions of approximately $1.5 million to meet its quota. i believe enactment of this bill will be of material aid to achieving completion of these great historic landmarks by the target dates during the new york worlds fair. i hope action will be taken promptly egh so that this may be accomplished.
. i heard the interesting anncement made by the manager of the bill on the majority side. i think the record ought to show a number of things in addition to what he has said. what he has said is fine. and i approve of it but i think two points for the record ought to be made. one is that the informal quotas which were set for attendance were met last saturday on the republican side. i say hing for the other side. i am  saying this in any contentious manner. it has a bearing on the situation for a reason. but representatives on our side were present. it is well knif . it should be. because this is game or jokethat every senator can be on the senate floor all the time. a senator may become ill for example. in my own case. i was embarrassed last saturday because there was quorum. i do  k why i should have been. because on our side senators were present on the floor. but i was in paris. presiding over a nato meeting that had been scheduled weeks before. had i  been there. i would have disgraced my country and 15 other nations. i could  do that. nevertheless. references to this situation group us all in one basket. and lead some people to think that we were  present to enable the proceedings to continue. i hope very much that the american public will exercise great discretionwhich i have found the american public doesand distinguish between senators who were doing their duty and those who were . in view of the great office which we hold. and our obligation to do our duty at all times.
. i address the senate today on the very important subject of a cloud in the sky which could become a threatening storm and become aher vietnam. that cloud is the near east. several months ago. i tried to interest the department of state in taking some bold and affirmative actions with respect to the near east. it seemed to me then that the quickening pace of armed clashes in that area and the impending british withdrawal from aden made it incumbent on our government to take steps before the situation got out of hand. since then. israel and syria have had some serious confrontations and aden is becoming engulfed by terrorism. a week ago. the new assistant secretary of state for near eastern and south asian affairs. lucius battle. called the near eastern situation highly explosive. i hope the department of state  agrees with this estimate. but what exactly do we intend to do about it. what concrete policy proposals do we want to implement. how much longer do we think the "quiet diplomacy" approach can work. i ask these questions  only because i am concerned about peace in the near east. but because the alternative to peace seems to be everdeepening u.s. involvement. with france having adopted a handsoff attitude and with the british pulling up their bases of military operations. and with the u.n. doing about all it can to hold its own in truce operations on the israelarab borders. only the united states remains as a prime deterrent to the war. and in case deterrence fails only the united states remains actively to intervene if it wishes to hold aggression there. we found ourselves in just that spot in leba in 1958. the parallel with vietnam should  be taken lightly. at first. we supported the interests of our allies there. then. our allies gradually loosened and finally cut their responsibilities. in the end. we were left with the bag. unless we make a concerted effort to seek out new approaches and internationalize the responsibility. we may find that we have become the policeman in the near east as well as the far east. in my view. the senate should take the lead in galvanizing attention among the american people and within the administration about this problem. specifically. i urge the senate foreign relations committee to undertake intensive executive and then public hearings on u.s. policy in the near east. vietnam and unrest in nato have been diverting the attention of our decisionmakers just at the time when something can be done to stave off a grave crisis in the near east. by the time they turn their eyes back again. the fire may well be burning. the senate spotlight did serve to bring about movement in our policy toward mainland china and to surface problems connected with vietnam. those people in the administration who wanted movement in our china policy would  have succeeded without the public educational efforts of the senate and the pressure which developed from hearings. on vietnam. the hearings did serve to make the administration think in public and justify its means and objectives. the senate can and should play this role again with respect to the near east. i would suggest that the senate foreign relations committee look carefully at five key issues: first. the strategic and political implications of the united kingdom withdrawal from aden. second. the possibility of the united states. the united kingdom. and france reaffirming their commitments under the tripartite guarantee pact of 1950 to keep the peace and maintain existing territorial boundaries. third. proposals to the soviet union to deescalate the arms race in the near east. fourth. the future role of the u.n. in near east peacekeeping operations. fifth. what is. in effect. aid to the terrorist palestine liberation organization through unrwa aid to arab refugees. the united states is  the heaviest contributor to this u.n. operation. aden is a particularly vital area for the west. and the implications of the impending british withdrawal from that base must be carefully considered. aden is in a highly strategic location on the principal eastwest trade routes. standing at the gateway to the rich oil lands of the arabian peninsula and the persian gulf and forming the southern flank of the arab near east. in addition. aden faces east africa. which is in the midst of strife between somalia and ethiopia. and torn by civil war in french somaliland. aden is also a vital factor in regard to peace in yemen. yemen has been a battlefield for the united arab republic and saudi arabia ever since september of 1962. today. about 40.000 egyptian soldiers. using sovietmade jets and reportedly even using gas. are engaged in that country. in its march 16 report. the special study mission to the near east of the house committee on foreign affairs. observed thata major factor to a yemen settlement today is for some solution to the aden problem. secretary battle agreed with this view in his testimony early this month before the senate foreign relations committee. if the united arab republic is allowed to take over in both yemen and south arabia. two serious consequences could follow. first. it could lead to a direct and allout clash between the united arab republic and saudia arabia. second. it could well mean the end of the newborn south arabia federation of which aden will be a part. the egyptian influence in the aden disturbances. manifested through the front for the liberation of occupied south yemen -flosyis strong. it is feared by many that the united arab republic would move into aden and south arabia once the british have evacuated. filling the political vacuum and providing aher potential confrontation with saudi arabia. as the house near east study mission put it: it will depend on the actions of the two rival powers. namely. egypt and saudia arabia as to whether the (south arabia) federation will survive independence. the house group went on to say thatbecause of the unsettled condition which would be aggravated by the departure of the british from aden. it would be desirable for the british to remain there indefinitelybut for a period beyond the present deadline. the london times in a march 13 editorial supported this view by warning against britains repeating the errors of 1948. at that time. premature british withdrawal from the near east and palestine in particular. led to an invasion of palestine by its arab neighbors. and bloody war between arab and jew. whether or  some interim solution can be worked out with regard to aden. some combined western presence is still needed to keep the stability of the near east. a reaffirmation of the tripartite guarantee pact of 1950 could fit this bill. while this pact has since. to greater and lesser degrees. been duly ed and reaffirmed by the united states. the united kingdom. and france. many nations in the near east region have come to believe that the western powers would longer act in concert in event of crisis. it is important to disabuse them of this idea. if the tripartite method. for certain reasons. can be reaffirmed. we should seek some western guarantee alternativeperhaps through nato. the arms race in the near east. initiated and sustained by heavy arms shipments by the soviet union. is the fire that makes the kettle boil in that area. some understanding must be reached with the soviet union on deescalation. this arms race  only involves the dispute between the arab states and israel but also the many disputes among the arab states themselves. including those between westeriented states. such as saudi arabia and jordan. and sovietbloc oriented states such as the united arab republic and syria. if allowed to continue unchecked such disputes could set the stage for aher united statesu.s.s.r. confrontation. i therefore urge thatprivately or publiclywe invite the soviet union to seek with us a mutual means of imposing an embargo on arms and materials of war to the near east. the role of the u.n. in the near east must also come under careful scrutiny. u.n. peacekeeping operations have  met with great success lately. either on the syrianisraeli frontier or in aden. although the united arab republic seems content to allow the u.n to work in the gaza strip for the moment. early this month the threeman u.n. mission to aden departed from aden in consternation after 5 days of a planned threeweek visit. if the u.n. is to help keep the fragile near east in peace. the member nations of the u.n. must take a more active and unbiased interest. up to . the u.n. members have treated the near east as a political football. many nations finding the u.n. forum a. convenient way of expressing friendship toward the arab countries without a consideration of all the grievances and interests involved and without a clear ion of the frightful war which could break out at anytime. the onesidedness of the perspective from the u.n. on the near east can be clearly seen in regard to the connection between the unrwa and the palestine liberation army. the pla is one of the major terrorist groups in the near east. it  only attacks israel. but is  concentrating on destroying the government of jordan. its leaders boast of receiving modern weapons and training from communist china and of sending troops to vietnam to "fight alongside the vietcong in their struggle against the american imperialism." and what are we doing about all this. our own government. despite some verbal opposition. is allowing the unrwa to give food rations to the palestine liberation organization which. in turn. uses these rations to recruit trainees to the pla banner. this is hing short of an outrage. a realistic bolstering up of u.s. policy in the near east has long been overdue. unless we act on all frontswith our allies. with the soviet union. and through the u.n.-in the near future. we may have to pay a heavy price. unless our diplomacy becomes more active . we may well find ourselves holding the military bag all over againthis time in the near east. since debate and discussion on this issue could be so important in establishing guidelines for u.s. policy in the near east. it may well be that a resolution would be needed to supply the proper framework for senate consideration. i am actively engaged in fashioning a draft of such a resolution and will work with as many of my colleagues as are interested in producing one that will lead to meaningful debate. i hope interest will be somewhat stimulated by this speech so that it will lead to a policy of the united states being established and it will take diplomatic initiative at this time. which could very well prevent aher vietnam.
. the newspapers today described yesterdays session of the senate as "aher day of inconclusive maneuvering and debate." i suppose today we shall have more of the same. this body has been stymied for 4 weeks on the matter of the campaign financing law. the senate has voted three times in 3 weeks to repeal that law. and we are. today. still at an impasse. in my 11 years in the senate. i can recall time when public confidence in the senate has been as low. and. i must add. with considerable cause. the impression we have given to the nation in the past few weeks is that chaos reigns here. and that the present leadership in this body has produced it. i should think the patience of senators would be worn beyond reasonableness. and that it is high time that we as members of this body should speak out. as i as one senator am doing today. and as i hope others will. and demand more responsibility on the part of our leadership. and certainly on the part of the majority leadership. to lead us to some decisive action phase with respect to this matter. it is time to stop playing games and to start working as the highest deliberative body in the united states. this is the fifth month of the session. according to the congressional quarterly box score on major legislation. there has been final action on only two measures: the consular treaty and the vietnam supplemental appropriations. we have also passed in the senate the legislative reorganization act after 7 weeks of debate only to see it apparently buried in the other body. by way of comparison. at this time in the 89th congress the senate had passed seven major pieces of legislation. the 88th congress. in may of 1963that congress then being widely assailed as one of the most lethargic in historyhad passed four major pieces of legislation according to the congressional quarterly box score. i believe that we must get off the dime and begin to legislate. the first question we must ask ourselves concerns how many times this body must vote on any issue before disposing of it. we have voted three times already that there should be campaign financing law. and apparently we must vote again on the matter. i understand that there is even consideration in the chamber of giving in on the issue. withstanding the view of the majority of the senate. if we tolerate the same kind of shenanigans on every piece of controversial legislation. the senate and the country would be at a standstill. the situation in the senate is intolerable. and the members of the senate k it. it is on the verge of becoming a national scandal. the public deserves a better performance by the senate. and i hope very much that we will all do something about it. i am  criticizing anybody. because every senator has a right to fight with his greatest devotion for what he believes in and to use all the rules and make every effort to win his point. however. the rest of us have a duty also. this is what i propose to do for myself. and i suggest that perhaps other members would want to do the same. we should accept more amendments to the billgood. bad. or indifferent. we must file a cloture motion. with all respect to the participating debaters. the senate must declare itself as to whether it will stop this charade. the only way in which to do that is by a cloture motion. it would require a twothirds vote to invoke cloture. but only 16 senators are required to file a cloture motion. i am ready to sign such a motion. if the leaders are  ready to put such a motion forth. i will try to do so. i do  want to do it. naturally the leadership should do it. however. it is high time that the senate should express itself. what i say is  in the remotest sense in derogation of any senator. every senator has the right to the courage of his convictions. and he should fight for his convictions with every weapon at his command. we must decide how long we will let this matter continue. i think the time has come to bring it to a stop . i speak in the interest of the standing and the reputation of the senate before the people of the united states. in which i and every other senator has a historic stake.
. i shall support the pending amendment. in part because of the parallel with the experience we had with the tfx. i sat on the subcommittee on investigations throughout the tfx controversy. and i had the very deep feeling that we ought  lynch people. ex post facto. so to speak. for a mistake in judgment. even though their misjudgment proved to be a costly matter. i wish that. before we embarked on such an allencompassing program as the tfx. we had understood the power of the purse. and its meaning. better than we did when we were committed to spend billions of dollars. we might have seen the error sooner. if  prevented it altogether. if we had had the benefit of a full airing of the merits and feasibilities of the matter under consideration. the amendment of senator cooper is an effort to use the power of the purse intelligentlyto turn the use of the emous technical apparatus which the defense department has for the evaluation of matters of this kind to the service of the congress in its deliberation. and  just leave that great reservoir of skill to its all too often task of "justifying" a decision of the administration. we should put them to the hardest kind of proof that we can subject them to before congress itself because this is a matter which bears on the most vital and sophisticated aspects of high strategy. let us  repeat the mistakes of vietnamof leaping before we looked. and of edging by stages into what turned out to be the most costly strategic blunder of this century. the most ardent advocates of the sentinel. or "thin abm" system. it seems to me. are those who really want a fullblown. "heavy." antisoviet abm system. moreover. they are often also the stanchest advocates of maintaining blindly at all cost a twotoone "nuclear supremacy" over the u.s.s.r.. even though many of the most advanced and sophisticated strategic thinkers in the nation reject this approach as  only simplistic but actually dangerous. as well as meaningless in the sense of providing any real security to the nation. i am  sure just what the right answer is to these grave and highly sophisticated questions. but we can. as senators. just accept somebodys word on this. even though that person may be the most hoable and distinguished of men. these are matters which ought to be given the fullest deliberation by the entire senate. and they should be brought to the attention of the senate as a great matter to be considered in the round and  just piecemeal and in terms of specific pieces of military hardware to be procured. from that point of view and in view of the delicacy of the problem of the thin antiballisticmissile system. the problem of what it may lead to. the agitation for a heavier system. which seems unwise. possible advances of the "art" which could lessen the validity of secretary mcnamaras theory in his famous san francisco speech. in terms of new missile penetration power. and so forthfor all of these reasons. i believe the senator from kentucky has provided us with a wise and intelligent precaution. i shall support the amendment of the senator from kentucky
 nixon and secretary laird feel about the safeguard abm. but the attempt of the johnson administration to subordinate urgent domestic civilian needs to the insatiable budgetary demands of the vietnam war produced the gravest kind of domestic strains and strife. and caused the political destruction of the johnson administration. the apparent determination of the administration to cross the rubicon of abm and mirv would make an escalation of the nuclear arms race inevitable unless checked by the senate. in my judgment. it is essential that we defer the crossing of that rubicon until a thorough effort has been made to negotiate a strategic arms limitation agreement in the salt talks. we have it in our powerthe power of the purseto do this. it is a power which. in all prudence. we must exercise. the danger of heedless escalation of the nuclear arms race is a very real one despite the efforts of safeguard proponents to minimize this aspect of the debate. already there is some claim that the reasons for immediate abm deployment given by secretary laird are having a detrimental effect on the commencement of the salt talks. according to an article in the washington post of august 3. the position in senate testimony by secretary laird "may have been seized upon by the moscow hawks to demand a new review and a delay in the talks." as much as we all hope that this report proves to be wrong. it is ironic that this very possibility was foreshadowed in the recent proabm study produced by the hudson institute. this book. entitled "why abm." has been widely touted by administration supporters as the reply to the antiabm study edited by wiesner and chayes. it states: the testimony of secretary laird . . . contributed rather significantly to the crystallization of the critical attitudes of the soviet commentators. the author concluded: secretary laird chose to invoke the imminent threat posed by alleged soviet first strike intentions. . . . hence the way the american administration chose to argue its case for bmd tended to produce soviet concerns lest the bmd decisions be used as a vehicle for expanding the strategic arms competition. the alleged soviet "first strike" threat. which secretary laird leaned on so heavily. was a red herring from the beginning. even secretary laird has more or less backed away from that position . after being confronted in the foreign relations committee with the intelligence estimates of the cia. but some damage may have already been done to the salt negotiations. the pentagons own testimony on "the status of u.s. strategic power." just a year ago before senator stennis preparedness investigating subcommittee. is sharply contrary to the soviet "first strike" case which has been used by secretary laird. the techogical lead of the united states is unquestionedand today should be even more so. following the apollo moon landing. still. according to general wheeler. the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. an american "first strike" -capability is  possible. his reasoning is significant:. it is literally impossible to buy sufficient forces at the present level of the art to destroy the enemy strike capability before it is launched... during these same hearings on th. status of u.s. strategic power. dr. johi foster. director of defense research an engineering. presented a very confiden picture of our strategic posture and de. scribed the socalled action/reactior cycle in a way which may be very per. tinent to the decision before us. he said so. in each case it seems to me. the soviei union is following the u.s. lead and that thi united states is  reacting to the soviel actions. our current efforts to get a mirn capability on our missiles is  reacting to soviet capability so much as it is ing ahead again to make sure. that whatever the$ do of the possible things that we imagine they might do. we will be preparedt ... and. as i see reason to doubt dr. fosters statements. then we must conclude that the united states is in a position of sufficiently comfortable security to enter the salt negotiations before crossing the abm and mirv thresholds. these two weapons systems represent a next generation of weapons. so to speak. and if we cross that threshold even before we give the salt talks a chance. we will automatically escalate the arms race because the soviets will inevitably follow our lead. our military planners seem determined to get abm and mi1rv in under the wire before any moratoria can be worked out. probably they view this as a prudent holding operation against possible failure of the salt negotiations. but in terms of prudence it seems to me to be dubious and fallacious. there has been a big effort in this debate to minimize the question of costs. in my judgment. it would be unwise for senators to kid themselves in this way. the issue is  the $759 million in this billit is the probably hundreds of billions of dollars which the next round of the nuclear arms race will cost if we do  succeed in heading it off through negotiations. the administrations approach to the salt talks must  be the routine approach of the past. such an attitude would be inadequate to the security needs of our nation and to the historic opportunity before us to achieve a breakthrough in the limitation and control of nuclear weapons. the old proverb that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure is especially true as it applies to the nuclear arms race. if we can achieve a stabilization of the strategic arms race at present levels we will certainly have achieved far more in terms of national security than if we challenge the soviets to a staggering new round of nuclear weapons systems by deploying safeguard. that race can only end in bankruptcy or nuclear holocaust. several theories on the relationship of abm to the salt talks have been put forward by the administration. one theory is that safeguard would have effect on the salt negotiations. aher theory is that we need safeguard as a "bargaining chip" in the negotiations.  a new theorythe strangest of allis beginning to emerge. according to this theory. it would help negotiations if both sides have an antichinese abm. ody has yet explained how an abm syse tern can be programed to work againsi i only one nationality of missiles. i implicit in this latest theory on abm t is an assumption that it is in the u.s. in- terest to side with the soviet union in its 1 increasingly bitter dispute with commu- nist china. a recent article in the new : york times by harrison salisbury pret dicts an imminent possibility of largee scale war between russia and china. i do  believe that the american people r are convinced at this stage that the united states should be committed to the u.s.s.r. in some tacit defense arrangement  have we the remotest ion of either the u.s.s.r. or the worlds attitude on such a major move. however. the worsening conflict between russia and china does. in my " judgment. have some direct bearing on the salt negotiations. it indicates that the overall strategic balance is deteriorating from the soviet viewpoint. the increased prospects for european unity. and the possibility of a joint european nuclear deterrent  under discussion among our nato allies. are further indications that the soviet union will  be freeas secretary laird has postulatedto strive for a firststrike capability against the united states. the u.s.s.r. is going to have substantial strategic worries on both its immediate borders. east and west. to me. this contributes to the logic of making a determined effort  to a nuclear armscontrol breakthrough. in terms of u.s. security. safeguard is clearly  required at this time. its deferral. on the other hand. could be the catalyst which moves the search for an armscontrol agreement to a new and historic plateau. the alternative to a nuclear armscontrol agreement is grim. at home we would  have the resources to deal in an adequate and human way with the exploding crises of our cities and our rural poor. we would  be able to relieve the anguish of black america--which is  prepared to wait any longer to achieve the benefits of equal citizenship. and. by sharpening the alienation of the younger people through the continued distortion of national priorities. we invite a massive repudiation of the whole system of life we have created when authority inevitably passes to the next generation.
. as to the text of the eagleton -amendment. . we become lawyers and take a look at it. here again. there are problems. i would like to point out the defined parameters of the eagleton amendment: i any person employed by. under contract to. or under the direction of any department or agency of the united states government. that could include almost anyone. it is  confined to the cia. indeed. it is difficult to say what the limits of its coverage may be. later on. i will explore whether it would cover foreign nationals. and particularly foreign nationals who may be covert intelligence agents of the united states. for instance. would colonel penkovsky. who was a member of the soviet military and who provided so much key intelligence to the cia right out of the kremlin. the soviet general staff. would he have been covered. lots of things lead to war. a man on horseback may lead- to war. national hatred could lead to war. anything could lead to war. we can deal with all those subjects in this bill. aher important consideration is that there outside the armed forces. was are covered by the bill. is agency of the united states which has any appreciable armed forces power.  even the cia. they might have some clandestine agents with rifles and pistols engaging in dirty tricks. but there is capability of appreciable militarj action that would amount to war. even in the laotian war. the regular u.s. armed forces had to be called in to give air support. the minute combat air support is. required you have the armed forces. and the bill becomes operative. a key control which would  be reached by this amendment even if it could. would be control of the use of money. the fact is that vast sums of money were given to yang pao in laos to pay for mercenary meo army. the use of air america. which was a logistical operation. and  a combat operation. presumably would  be reached by the. amendment alone it was a key factor in cia involvement in the secret war in laos. finally. one point of draftsmanship. it will be ed the amendment starts out with the language. "any person employed by." that includes a foreign person. as well. there are many clandestine agents who are foreign and employed by. in the sense of being financed. maintained by. and directed by department of the u.s. government. which is one of the facts of life. are they covered by this bill. if they are clandestine agents who are members of foreign armies does this amendment apply. suppose a member of the soviet or chinese. or vietcong armies is a cia "controlled american source." does this amendment apply if his unit goes into hostilities. substantive law. can determine what activities can be engaged in with respect to foreigners in terms of pay. and so forth. law can determine that. but it is hardly a methodology. you would be dealing there with substantive approaches to the law. shall the united states employ foreign citizens for these purposes. if it does. in what manner. and how are they controlled. and so forth. againr this is beyond the ambit of this bill. the matter was so eloquently and precisely put by the senator from maine (mr. musxie.) in what he said in respect of the amendment. it simply does  fit within this context. and considering the historic nature and importance of the context we should  burden it with substantive questions which in addition to all other points made are within the jurisdiction of aher legislative standing committee. to wit. the committee on armed services. and where we are  faced with any question of avoiding the issue. but have the word of a man whose word rings as true around here as that of any senator of the united states. and that is that he proposes to deal with the question. one other point which is interesting: i. too. have talked with the senator from mississippi at length. he was very reluctant to make this expression on this particular amendment. because he felt that he wanted feeling here in the senate that he was trying to have his voice carry senators when he was far away from us. he. too. like everybody else. wanted to be subject to debate and crossexamination. but i think the senator from maine (mr. muska). and i prevailed on him to feel that as he had used his privilege very sparingly and he had this bill so close to his heart. this was a measure in which that was deserved. and i am glad to say he acted accordingly.
