. if this service is to be rendered in the name of the united states. we must appropriate this amount of money. although the amount may be small. what is involved in the amendment is of very great importance and. hence. deserves the argument that is being made in its behalf. i think it is most important that we keep that principle clearly in mind: although the amount called for by the amendment is small. the work to be done by means of the amendment is of critical importance. i believe that this amendment. which has been proposed by my colleague and myself along with our colleague . can best be explained as follows: if there is any consensus in the senate. it is that negroes are entitled to their voting rights. i wish to repeat that statement. because it is important: if there is any consensus in the senateone which sweeps right across the board. and is supported by senators from all sections of the country and senators of all views. including those with various views in regard to states rights and federal rightsit is clear that the senate is very favorably inclined toward securing to negroes their voting rights. the principal work being done by the civil rights division of the department of justice is to assure to negroes their voting rights under the 1957 and 1960 civil rights acts. that is the purpose of providing this amount of money. if we fail to make this provision. if we do  implement the granting to them of this important right of citizenship. on which there is so broad a consensus in the senate. how can we say to the negroes of the country. "it is your solemn duty to preserve order and tranquility by  going into the streets to fight for your rights". two things which came up in the course of the testimony on this subject are. in my opinion. very important in this connection. in the testimony of burke marshall. the assistant attorney general in charge of the civil rights division. he made clear why the u.s. attorneys can be used in the way indicated in the questioning that it was desired that they be used in order to keep the staff of the civil rights division itself very small. the u.s. attorneys. mr. marshall pointed out. are in position to handle these vastly complex voting cases. which. like antitrust cases. necessarily involve a very great amount of preparation. mr. marshall cited one case in which 36.000 pages of voting records had to be examined and the brief that was written amounted to almost 300 pages in order to present the case properly to the court. a u.s. attorney is  physically in a position to do that kind of work. if he is  going to bog down in the many other cases which it is his duty also to prosecute. invariably. the department of justice in washington handles cases of that character. as well as land cases. bribery cases. and income tax cases. and antitrust cases of great complexity. everyone who has engaged in the active practice of law ks that to be a fact. so u.s. attorneys can do the job in this field. as to the u.s. civil rights commission. mr. marshall saidand properlyon page 1100 of the record of the hearings: it was  the wish of congress that the commission be used as an investigative arm of the department of justice and it has never been used that way. senator. he made that statement in answer to a question. he said further. as shown on page 1101: i will say. senator. that since i have been in the department of justice. which is since march of 1961. the commission has never been used by us to gather evidence to enforce the voting laws which the congress enacted in 1957 and 1960. i assume that it is the wish of congress that the commission should  be used as an agency of the civil rights division of the department of justice. therefore. again. the commission can be a source from whicheven if it had the resourcesthe department of justice could draw the support which it needs. to indicate how tough these cases are. i should like to cite what i consider to be the historic words of a senator. on page 1100. the senator from louisiana . responded to a statement by the senator from arkansas about discrimination in voting. the senator from arkansas had stated: they are  treated that way in arkansas. i want you to k. sir. and i dont care what your records show. in arkansas every negro that walks up to the polls after paying his poll tax can vote. the senator from louisiana saidand i make criticism of. or comment on. that statement whatever. i am referring only to the justification for the service which is sought to be supplied by the amendment: i would say the same thing in louisiana except in six or seven cases where the negroes outnumber the whites considerably. those are the only instances where there might be some trouble. let us ponder that statement for a moment.
. it is with a great sense of satisfaction that i call to the attention of the senate the decision 3 days ago of 70 major corporations resident in new york citysome of them the largest corporations in the worldto organize a private development corporation to carry out a program to improve conditions for business in the city and to maintain and increase the number of jobs available. this action underscores once more the emous potential of private business to act effectively in the public interest. without the participation of publicspirited leaders of business. labor. the foundations. and profit civic organizations. even a city like new york will have a hard time to survive as an effective urban unit. this effort can succeed more surely if this new group will exercise its considerable influence in the broadest public interest and became a force for solving the many faceted problems. from air pollution and crime to traffic jams. which confront business as well as millions of new yorkers. with the support of the federal. state. and city governments. for my own part. i will do all i can to make the effort succeed. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks two articles and an editorial about this new business initiative. which appeared in the march 2 and march 3 issues of the new york times.
