. when we see indicators as to what a trained aircraft mechanic makes while serving with the air force. an e6. e7. whatever it might be. his responsibilities. and then we will see a chart indicating what he would be paid working for united airlines. that is really  a fair comparison because. obviously. the military career technician we are discussing here has lots of other benefits besides the straight pay: for example. fulltime medical care for himself and his family. and a pension at the end of 20 years of a very substantial nature.
s commission on civil disorders reported on the need to alleviate the harsh living conditions in the ghetto. testimony presented to the senate subcommittee on poverty in recent months has indicated that the need to improve the health and wellbeing of the rural poor is less than the need in our cities. the school lunch program. unlike many federal programs. translates federal dollars into a visible. tangible benefit for every eligible schoolchild. failure to extend it would. in my judgment. be turning a deaf ear to the nations povertystricken in both urban and rural areas. furthermore. the social security amendments adopted by the congress during the last session require a substantial expansion of daycare facilities for the children of welfare recipients who are undertaking job training. because existing day public day care centers can meet this need. private centers for needy preschool children will have to be established in churches and neighborhood settlement houses in communities where the children live. extending the lunch program to these centers is a logical and necessary step in strengthening and contributing to the success of the daycare program congress mandated last year. i. therefore. urge the senate to support this effort to raise the level of child nutrition by approving the language of the housepassed bill.
i k the senator ks i am trying to be of help. and ks that i feel something. must be done. does the senator feel it would be more in the general public interest if there were a generic federal policy. the patents subcommittee of the judiciary committee. headed by the senator from arkansas . is holding hearings on that question at this time. that question is also before the committee on labor and public welfare with respect to medical research. the miity members of that committee are drafting an alternative to the socalled long amendment. tailored very much along the lines of the subject which the senator is  discussing. the senator from louisiana is the deputy leader on his side of the aisle. and for that reason he has a little more responsibility than do other senators. i wonder whether the senator would comment on the question whether it would be best in the public interest to develop a .policy and a provision which would apply across the board for all government agencies as a result of consideration and evaluation by the mcclellan subcommittee and by other committees. i do  preclude the senators purpose. but i believe the senator ought to give us .his view on that point.
. 20 years ago the legislation sponsored by the distinguished chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. the senator from alabama. . mr. hill. can be here with us in this chamber today as he is home recuperating from an arm injury he recently received. however. to him. and to the others who have made hillburton the constructive program for the nations health which it is. i offer congratulations on this 20th anniversary of the hillburton act. may it continue to be blessed with success.
. i recently introduced on behalf of myself and senators prouty. dominick. murphy. schweiker. saxbe. and smith of illisall the republican members of the labor and public welfare committeeand senators scott. brooke. and goodell. the administrations bill entitled the "health services improvement act of 1970." s. 3443. in view of the great interest expressed in this legislative proposal. which represents an important initiative by the federal government designed to improve the quality and availability of health care in our nation. i ask unanimous consent that a sectionbysection analysis of s. 3443 be printed in the record.
. the occupational health and safety bill. passed by the senate on ember 17. 1970. is truly a landmark bill which will be of direct and immediate benefit to the bulk of our nations 80 million workers. i believe that the bill passed by the senate was considerably improved by the amendments offered by myself and other members of the miity on the floor of the senate and in the labor and public welfare committee. i am pleased to e that the new york times concurs in that view. i ask unanimous consent that its editorial of ember 18. 1970. on the senate bill be printed in the record.
. as ranking miity member of both the executive reorganization subcommittee and of the labor and public welfare committee. i say s. 2097 as a whole is a major and vital landmark to fight the american drug abuse crisis. there are several provisions in the bill which were the product of a joint effort by me and the distinguished senator from iowa that i would like to comment upon.
. i support s. 3419 as reported by the labor and public welfare committee with amendments and have joined this bill in this form as a cosponsor. i believe the recommended changes improve the bill and more effectively serve consumer interests. the labor and public welfare committee and the executive reorganization subcommittee of the government operations committee. on both of which i am the ranking member. had the responsibility for reviewing titles i and ii. these titles were the executive reorganization provisions of s. 3419. "the consumer safety act of 1972." as reported by the commerce committee. since the bill extends considerably beyond issues of safety. and covers such matters as misbranding of food. drugs. cosmetics. and medical devices. and encompasses provisions that protect the health and pocketbook of the consumer. as well as his safety. the title of the bill has been changed to "the food. drug. and consumer product act of 1972." title i of the bill would establish an independent agency in the executive branch with the responsibility to promote the public health and safety by protecting consumers against injury resulting from the use of foods. drugs. devices. and consumer productsas defined in the bill. title ii would transfer to the new agency all functions of the secretary of health. education. and welfare which are presently administered through the food and drug administration or through the division of biologics standards of the national institutes of 21.852 health. and the authority of the center for disease control over clinical laboratory licensing. it would also transfer consumer safety laws directed at certain classes of products or hazards such as the authority of the department of commerce and the ftc over flammable fabrics and refrigerator doors. and the authority of the agriculture department over food inspection and animal biological drugs. a new title iv adds to the present cosmetic provisions of the federal food. drug. and cosmetic act three new substantive labeling provisions which. in effect. bring the cosmetic requirements of the act more closely into conformity with the labeling requirements for food. drugs. and devices. as reported by the committee on commerce. the bill established a new independent agency. however. the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am ranking miity member. began from the wellaccepted proposition that new independent agencies should be created only on evidence of compelling need and we should guard against unnecessary fragmentation of the federal structure. i join with my other colleagues who have so eloquently put the case for some new federal structure to better protect the consumer from hazards associated with food. drugs and consumer products. in this instance. the weight of the evidence as presented in both of my committees argued for an independent agency. the administration was concerned that the creation of a new agency would sever the relationship between fda and hew. and sought to retain these functions within hew. their proposal to structure a consolidated regulatory effort within hew did . i believe. offer sufficient safeguards to insure the fullest protection in the consumers interest. essential ingredients that i believed would be required for the administration of a structure in hew and which the administration could  support are: first. a measure of authority to initiate and litigate all court action in the name of such structure as may be necessary to carry out its functions. and to enforce the statutes subject to its jurisdiction as efficiently and effectively as possible. second. a measure of authority to submit its budget request and legislative recommendations directly to congress. third. the authority to prescribe its own personnel policies. the agency established by this bill clearly has the aforementioned authoritiesand certain additional authoritieswhich permit it to perform in the public interest. and i anticipate that there will be strong ties between the department of health. education. and welfare and the new agency. removing fda from the department of hew is simply an organizational move to increase responsiveness and accountability. and need have adverse impact on its relations with the health components of that department in the future. in fact. these relationships may be substantially cxviii1377part 17 improved once the new agency is established and is in a position to operate with the new strength and mandate given it in this legislation.
. i am pleased to join in introducing with senator kennedy and senators stafford. cranston. pell. hathaway. and randolph the drug utilization and improvement act of 1975. the bill is identical to the measure we introduced in the 93d congress upon which there have been extensive hearings. the bill does  incorporate any of the legislative recommendations made to the committee during the hearing process. however. this is  intended to indicate that any or all of such recommendations have been rejected. rather. i join in introducing the bill to highlight the need for the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am ranking miity member. to consider promptly such legislative recommendations together with the provisions of the bill. whatever the incidence of adverse drug reactions in the united states one thing is certain. the current estimates of the magnitude and cost of the adverse drug reaction problem are derived from an inappropriate data base and statistically valid estimates can be obtained from such information. thus. it is clear that there is an urgent need for a national center for clinical pharmacology as established by title i of the bill. the purpose of title i is to improve the education of each member of the health care team about the use of drugs. to collect reliable national data on the way drugs are used and on the extent of the problems caused by drug misuse. to develop mechanisms to monitor the ongoing use of drugs. and to improve to the maximum extent feasible the use of such drugs. title ii of the bill seeks to curb the abuses in the promotional practices with respect to drug sales and prescribingwell documented by the hearing record. the physicians decision to prescribe a drug should be based on scientific evidence. with access to all relevant data and comparative prescribing information. the provisions of title ii seek to reduce exposure to improper marketing techniques and to substitute in lieu thereof. to the maximum possible extent. a substantive presentation of valid. comparative. scientific information. march .21. 19.75 by mr. berdck (by request). .s. 12 3. a bl to tmgrovm judil =vchineby .y f.wther d6efting the jisdtotion of ulls. maglstratesad ter other purposes. referred to the committee (m the jus ay.
s disapproval memo with respect to either health service programs or nursing education which was  previously considered when these respective measures were first introduced. deliberated upon by the committee on labor and public welfare when ordered favorably reported. reflected upon when each bill was passed by the senate and house. and carefully considered once again when the conference substitute was agreed to and adopted by the senate and house.
. i am pleased to join with my colleague from new jersey and others in presenting a senate resolution commending and congratulating the international ladies garment workers union on the occasion of its 75th anniversary. when the union was founded on june 23. 1900. conditions of employment in the manufacturing of womens clothing were among the worst for any employees in any industry in this nation. in its 75year history. the ilgwu has constantly strivenand successfully to improve the social and ecoic welfare of its members. the efforts of the il wu are primarily responsible for ending sweatshop conditions which employees in the socalled needle trades were. for far too long. forced to endure. a major achievement of the ilcgwu has been the stabilization of labormanagement relations in an industry with a history of strife and unrest. in addition to these traditional trade union goals. the ilgwu has been also a pioneer in -demonstrating its awareness of the social needs of -its members. and of the community at large. it was among the first unions to recognize that its responsibilities extended into such areas as education. health care. and recreation for itsinembers and it has beena leading factor in helping its members.
. i wish to explain what we have in mind. if it is permissable under the rules. without the applicable germaneness rule being in effect. we have been unable to work out a more permanent arrangement respecting the drug abuse office and the white house and the drug enforcement activities of the united states. it is a matter within the hand of two committees. the labor and public welfare committee. which deals with health matters. and the government operations committee. which deals with government operations. hence. as the office expires on june 30. the chairmen of the respective committees and the subcommittees have agreed. to extend the office for 6 months. the office is very slim right . there are only two people in it. we are advised. the administration is  happy about the situation. as it wishes a more permanent arrangement. and i agree. i am the ranking miity 21.050 member of the labor and public welfare committee. and i am also second ranking on government operations. but unless we wish to dismantle the whole structure right . we really are trying to do something instead of hing. hence. we have agreed. those who are primarily interested. to extend the office for 6 months. until january 1. 1976. hoping that within that time we can work out some way of dealing with the problem without dismantling even the rather skimpy machinery which is  available. that is the whole point. i make that explanation so that when the senator whom senator hansen is waiting for arrives. the explanation may have been made as to what we are seeking in the bill and why. we will renew our request at that time.
. i ask unanimous consent that s. 1608. calendar  213. a bill to. amend the drug abuse office and treatment act of 1972. be indefinitely postponed. i wish to explain that this bill. s. 1608. is on the calendar as  213 because it has been reported out by the committee on labor and public welfare and referred to the committee on government operations. the committee on government operations has  yet acted. therefore. it should come onto the calendar when that action has been completed.
