. new bedford. mass.. was once kn as the greatest whaling city in the world. it was once also one of the greatest textile manufacturing centers of the nation. in recent days. however. it has become a city divided. new bedford has. over the past 10 years. received more federal aid than any city its size. yet it has the highest unemployment rate in the state and one of the highest in the country. it suffers from serious housing problems. poor policecommunity relations. considerable poverty. and a serious alienation of its miity groups from the community. out of this has grown an increasing bitterness. which climaxed last week in an outbreak of violence and the tragic. meaningless death of an inent youth. it is easy to assign blame for this turmoil. and it can be liberally spread around. but it is less easy to find the answers to the problemsmade even more difficult by the outbreak of violencefor they are  unique to new bedford. almost every city in this nation holds. to a greater or lesser degree. the potential for similar hostilities. there are. therefore. valuable lessons to be learned from the efforts that have been made in the last few days to ease tensions in new bedford and restructure community priorities. it is to the great credit of men such as senator edward brooke. congressman hastings keith. and the various city officials and miity group representatives who met last monday. that a series of agreements were reached which have calmed the situation. more important. these agreements point the way to further progress in tackling the basic problems that have plagued the community. as a recent boston globe editorial comments: these agreements are a beginning ... and a testament to what can be accomplished by the concernedprovided they swing egh weight to make their presence felt. it is indeed a tribute to the immense creative energy of our colleague in the house. hastings keith. and to the responsible leadership which senator edward brooke has appropriately and conscientiously provided. that a dialogand the initial steps toward reconcilation and repairhas begun. i am pleased to be able to present here. for the consideration of my colleagues. the full text of the editorial statement which appeared in the boston globe of july 15:
. one final question. the senator from illis mentioned that the atomic energy commission had stated a preference that there be open housing legislation in illis. does the senator mean that the atomic energy commission did  intend that it be mandatory that there be open housing legislation in illis in order for this project to be granted.
and the title is vested in the german government.  in the u.s. government. the conversion of those barracks from coal burning to oil burning. and putting in oil burners. would result in a cost to us of more than $5 million. as my distinguished colleague has pointed out. these oil burners would then belong to the german government. which owns the barracks that are housing american troops for the protection of our allies in europe.
it would  be so. i assure the senator from florida that this bill would  add any bureaucratic money. and that the govers are  interested in getting grants. we are talking about only $5 million nationally. for technical assistance. under this bill. it is  that they are looking for federal money. they want uniform standards. that is why they and the legislatures across the country. who generally do  want intervention in their affairs. want this legislation. that is why the federal energy administrator wants itbecause we need a national energy policy. and this is a giant step toward such a policy. if we do  have this legislation to avoid a crisis. we are back where we started from with a voluntary program which is  working. i think that the eagleton amendment. like the tower amendmentwith all due respect to the senator from texaswill gut this legislation. i point out three things: one. the cost of subsidized housing would rise. i believe that the senator from missouri will recognize that the cost would rise. while the commercial sectors would be free of any requirements. under the eagleton amendment. to conserve energy in new construction. they would  be required to do so. but subsidized housing would be rising all the time. do we really want that. two. the best estimate is that only a third of new residential construction receives direct federal government support. so. few new homes would be affected by this amendment. three. there is need to legislate sanctions. as the senator from missouri would do. because the secretary already can do that with regulations. why put in this amendment. we already can do it with subsidized housing. and governmentfunded housing buildings. we do  need to pass legislation for that. the secretary of housing and urban development has the authority and can establish the regulations to do it at any time she wishes. so.  1. there is need for the eagleton amendment.  2. if we do have it. it is going to gut this bill entirely. and we will have insulation and conservation standards program. if we want to go back to that. then we should agree to the eagleton amendment. let us  be fooled. the eagleton amendment is compromise between this bill and the tower amendment. it stands on its own. it would gut the bill just as much as the tower amendment. which has been defeatedwisely soby the senate. i hope the eagleton amendment will be defeated. also.
. i ask of the unit. thereby conserving fuel. as the unanimous consent that the names of secretary may prescribe by regulations after senators mcintyre. case. ribicoff. and consultation with the administrator of the federal energy administration and the secjavits be added as cosponsors of amend- retary of housing and urban development. ment  2136. and the original use of which commences
