 indicates that the percentage of those white slum families with incomes below the poverty level has remained constant at about 36 percent over the last 6 years. in new york city. however. that percentage increased from 28 percent in 1960 to 35 percent today. clearly. our principal need is for more job opportunities--employment of permanence and substance. based on meaningful onthejob training programs that  only upgrade skills but. as well. identify potential. so that an individual may climb the ladder of increased skills until he is realizing the full measure of that potential. the significance of this need is made even more poignantlest there be any doubtby figures just released by the department of labor which indicate that in september and october there was a decline of 88.000 in the number of jobs available and yet an increase of 300.000 in the number of those actively seeking work. our urgent task is to bring these figures more nearly into balance and to reach those  without those necessary skills and without hope. the poverty program has made progress in a number of areas--and has the potential and the creativity of approach. given improvement. to make further strides. we must  subject to destructive debate the already totally inadequate authorization for this program.  can we give serious consideration to amendments that may well cripple the operation of this program. a spirit of ination and a capacity for creativity has characterized several of the endeavors undertaken through the antipoverty program. and we must permit these to go forward: headstart has changed the future for more than 2 million youngsters. the legal services program has assured the poor the right to equal justice which more fortunate americans have so long enjoyed. neighborhood health centers have helped to break the vicious cycle of poor health and poverty for residents of 35 lowincome areas. upward bound has opened the doors of a higher education to some 27.000 young men and women whose potential might  otherwise have been recognized and encouraged. the 700 neighborhood centers established by community action agencies as a multiservice unit have brought a large reservoir of heretofore untapped manpower and services to bear on the total needs of individuals and families. the follow through program. which seeks to provide services of the type offered in headstart programs to youngsters who have moved on to kindergarten and first grade. is  underway on an experimental basis for some 190.000 children. and holds promise as a meaningful addition to the regular curriculum of educationally deprived children in public schools. also. we should recall that there are over 300.000 americans today providing at least 1 day a week in support of antipoverty efforts. we should  forget that the conscience of america has been tapped and has been touched. and we should support it. . there are two committee amendments in the bill right  that may well do incalculable damage to the antipoverty program. and particularly to the successful enterprises that i have just mentioned. to bring privately operated community action programs directly under the control of public officials would place the responsibility for ination with city hall. a place which usually does  radiate creativity and progress. with several exceptions. ably. of course. new york city. private agencies should be free to pioneer in a whole range of inations. further. the amendment requiring that onehalf of the local share be cashamounting to 10 percentwill effectively rule out participation of many communities whose financial situation precludes or whose officials choose  to obligate tax funds for this purpose. many of those. doubt. will be the localities whose residents most need the help and training in community action agencies which cap could provide. yet. matter how serious. even these could pale in importance if we further reduce the too limited authorization for this bill. to cut back the program to $1.4 billio $1.2 billionin the face of the clear need and in the face of our too little hoed commitment will demonstrate that this congress has again turned its back on the cities and that this congress cares little about the americans to whom we have made too many unfulfilled promises. as the new york times has stated: a retreat  would be a fresh insult to those who have been victims and losers too often. let us resolve in this debate to recapture the initiative and press forward in a questfounded on commitmentto right the wrongs which have too long obtained.
. it is necessary. too. that we remain sensitive to the wishes of the parents of these patients. parents have the ultimate responsibility for the welfare of their children. they deserve the opporunity if they desire it. to exercise their discretion in choosing the facility most suited to what they feel are the needs of their children. for them. adequate options must be made available. they must be educated and aware of the options and alternatives in treatment and facilities available so they can make a responsible choice. the framework and the vehicles for providing improved care and facilities already exist. the administration has the programs designed. congress has allocated funding and the courts have set and will maintain standards and continue to serve in the interest of the mentally disabled. what we must insist on  and what we must continue to guarantee is the thorough and consistent execution and administration of these programs. it is necessary to outline specific objectives. guidelines and timeframes to clearly identify and define the roles and responsibilities of federal agencies and to direct regional committees to mobilize. coordinate and evaluate systems of funding programs and agency efforts in promoting better health care and facilities for the mentally disabled. measures should be called for to effect on improved federal/state partnership in this venture so that both are working in cooperation to achieve the same goals and provide the best results. and finally. society must be educated to understand the value of human lifeevery human life. like the grassroots of our political structure. it is with the people that the impetus for changeany changemust be born. unfortunately this arena is the most impervious to change. that is why the government must work hard to advocate with determination the need to improve facilities and accept the handicapped. of course. these efforts will cost money. but it is money well spent. austerity at the expense of the freedom. the opportunity and the human development of part of our people is  ecoy. it is a tragic waste throwing away something of emous value. if we can afford the benefits of freedom. and the opportunity for development for ourselves. we can certainly provide them for those who could  otherwise have them. it is a fundamental principle of our society that all persons deserve full opportunity. our firm and continuing commitment to those in particular need is necessary to give meaning to that principle today.
. is that with an instrument such as grammrudman. which is a political instrument. the real concerns and the solution to those concerns is  only in the politically protected programs. but also in the unheralded ones. it requires some understanding to realize the impact on these programs. but what we have instead is some slick advertising. they are the ones that are going to get cutand cut badlyunder grammrudman. they will get cut badly because of the exceptions already made by congress and by the procedure itself. so. if there are those of the elderly who feel comforted by the fact that their social security is protected. i can assure them that their health and their future are  and they will  be. either. i have cited just one small program in one area of this governments responsibility. the same can apply to the retarded. to the disabled.5ti those who suffer from cancer. from heart disease. from alzheimers. from diabetes. and so on down the list. and it applies to those who are ecoically disadvantaged. as well. we are  talking about welfare . we are talking about opportunity in terms of ecoics and in terms of a full life. there is going to be a price to be paid and unfortunately. it will  be paid by the politicians who are going to campaign throughout the united states in the year 1986. saying. "i voted for grammrudman. i am for a balanced budget." the price will be paid by the weakest most delicate elements of our society. indeed by the nation as a whole. there are terms or cliches or slogans that can make real to the american people the impact of grammrudman on the elderly. but its effects will be real egh. and these matters are going to become more so as politics takes precedence over priorities. i hope that the bill is defeated and that we get to the real business of taking care of people and exercising fiscal responsibility.
