. today i am introducing the community character act of 2001. together with senators bennett. specter. jeffords. cleland. levin. bingaman. and lieberman. this legislation provides federal assistance to states and indian tribes to create or update statewide or tribal land use planning legislation. uptodate planning legislation empowers states and local governments to spur ecoic development. protect the environment. coordinate transportation and infrastructure needs. and preserve our communities. america has grown from east to west. as well as from an urban setting to suburban one. the nations sweeping growth can be attributed to many things. including a strong ecoy and transportation and techogy advancements that allow people to live greater distances from work. due in part to inadequate planning. strip malls and retail development catering to the automobile have become the trademark of the american landscape. in the wake of ihe postworld war ii building boom. my hometown of warwick. ri had experienced the type of development that too often offends the eye and saps our ecoic strength. due to a lack of planning. incremental and haphazard development occurred through a mixture of incompatible zoning decisions. industrial and commercial facilities and residential homes were frequently and inappropriately sited next to each other. the local newspaper described the city as a "suburban nightmare". however. we learned that proper approaches to planning would help every state meet its challenges. whether it is preserving limited open space in the east or protecting precious drinking water supplies in the west. the community character act will benefit each community and neighborhood by providing $25 million per year to states and tribes for the purpose of land use planning. the bill recognizes that land use planning is appropriately vested at the state and local levels. and accords states and tribes flexibility in using their money. importantly. the legislation also recognizes that the federal government should play a role in financing these activities. through enactment of transportation. housing. environmental. energy. and ecoic development laws and requirements. congress has created a demand for state and local planning. in fact. the community character act should be viewed as providing the federal payment for an unfunded mandate whose account is overdue. the senators who have sponsored this bill represent geographically diverse states. from rhode island to new mexico and from georgia to utah. this bipartisan bill represents a small investment in our communities i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill. a summary of the bill. and letters of support for the bill be printed in the record.
s of both parties is testament to the high regard that official washington had for his intellect and integrity. as a dear friend of my fathers for over 25 years. my strongest sense of the senator comes from hearing my dad speak of senator moynihan with reverence and true admiration. upon my fathers passing. senator moynihan included an excerpt from a wonderful poem by w.b. yeats. "the municipal gallery revisited." in his tribute. those kind words were a great comfort to our family. in the words of aher poem by the poet w.b. yeats: the man is gone guided ye. unweary. through the long bitter way. ye by the waves that close in our sad nation. be full of sudden fears. the man is gone who from this lonely btation -has moulded the hard year... mournand then onward. there is returning he guides ye from the tomb. his memory is a tall pillar. burning before the gloom our nation will mourn. but senator moynihan would insist that we move on. on behalf of my mother and the chafee family. we send our sincere condolences to liz and all her family.
ial letter to local officials shortly after his arrival. explaining that he would return the following spring to receive the japanese reply. he arrived in edo bay slightly ahead of schedule. on february 13. 1854. this time with nine ships anchored near the city of kanagawa. the cultural exchanges continued. after a stunning parade on land. perry arranged a 21gun salute to ho the emperor. and then flew the shoguns" flag from the masthead of one of his ships. he presented his hosts with an array of gifts. including books. maps of america. whiskey. wine. clocks. rifles. perfumes. a miniature steam engine with railroad. and telegraph equipmentall of which aroused much awe in the growing crowds. the japanese presented the commodore and his officers with gifts from the emperor. including scrolls. porcelain tea sets. silks. jars of soy sauce. umbrellas. swords. and ornate lacquer ware. they even treated the sailors to a sumo wrestling show. when one japanese commissioner left an americanhosted banquet. he gave perry a crushing hug and exclaimed. "japan and america. all the same heart." on march 31. after weeks of delicate and complex negotiations. a treaty declaring "peace and friendship between the united states of america and the empire of japan" was signed. the treaty of kanagawa opened the seaports of shimoda and hokodate to american ships. and granted shipwrecked sailors protection in japan. after the signing. the japanese held a great feast for the americans. and there was much celebration. as author rhoda blumberg writes. "it is remarkable that people in the land of the shogun could be so gracious and hospitable to unwanted visitors from the black ships and that the americans could overcome their prejudice against a different people and enjoy their company." americans and japanese were gracious. hospitable. and did enjoy each others company at their first encounter. and that relationship continues today. the japanamerica society and black ships festival of rhode island have helped maintain the bonds of friendship between our two nations. this month. representatives from rhode island will be participating in a ceremony iii newport. rhode islands sister city. shimoda. japan. commemorating the 65th anniversary of miy 5. 2004 ca) that citys lack ishiibs.:festivdi. liam proud to .drav the sentes .1ttentiodl tr this historic ioceasion.. and to ex press on..behalf of my .olleaguesour deep congratulations to mayor naoki ishii. members of the city council. and the citizens of shimoda. japan as they host the celebration of the mutual friendship and shared values between our two nations. common bonds that will last for many years to come.*
. congress must make an immediate. thorough review of the governments response to hurricane katrina and its aftermath. as a member of the senate homeland security committee. i am committed to working with chairwoman susan collins and ranking member joe lieberman to ensure that the investigation is conducted in a bipartisan fashion. we have already begun this investigation. on wednesday. september 14. our committee held its first hearing on the effects of hurricane katrina and heard from former california gov. pete wilson. former new orleans mayor marc morial. and former grand forks. nd. mayor patricia owens. each of these respected public officials have led their citizens through past natural disasters and shared .their experiences with us in the hearings. in the coming weeks. we will call in leaders from the administration and other relevant parties to determine what was done right and what was done wrong in responding to hurricane katrina. we.intend to make whatever changes in structure. funding and personnel that are necessary to ensure that we are prepared to handle disasters--either natural or manmadein the future. during consideration of the fiscal year 2006 commercejusticescience appropriations bill. senator hillary clinton offered an amendment to create a new committee to investigate hurricane katrina. i did  support this amendment for two reasons. first. it violated senate rules by adding legislation to an appropriations bill. i have strongly opposed such legislative "riders" in the past since many of the "riders" have been- used to undermine environmental laws. i believe that legislation should move through the appropriate authorization committees for consideration. second. i believe that our homeland security committee is doing the necessary work to conduct a full investigation. the work has already begun. a new committee could take months to be organized and set up. the american people should  have to wait to have accountability.
. today i am introducing the community character act of 2001. together with senators bennett. specter. jeffords. cleland. levin. bingaman. and lieberman. this legislation provides federal assistance to states and indian tribes to create or update statewide or tribal land use planning legislation. uptodate planning legislation empowers states and local governments to spur ecoic development. protect the environment. coordinate transportation and infrastructure needs. and preserve our communities. america has grown from east to west. as well as from an urban setting to suburban one. the nations sweeping growth can be attributed to many things. including a strong ecoy and transportation and techogy advancements that allow people to live greater distances from work. due in part to inadequate planning. strip malls and retail development catering to the automobile have become the trademark of the american landscape. in the wake of ihe postworld war ii building boom. my hometown of warwick. ri had experienced the type of development that too often offends the eye and saps our ecoic strength. due to a lack of planning. incremental and haphazard development occurred through a mixture of incompatible zoning decisions. industrial and commercial facilities and residential homes were frequently and inappropriately sited next to each other. the local newspaper described the city as a "suburban nightmare". however. we learned that proper approaches to planning would help every state meet its challenges. whether it is preserving limited open space in the east or protecting precious drinking water supplies in the west. the community character act will benefit each community and neighborhood by providing $25 million per year to states and tribes for the purpose of land use planning. the bill recognizes that land use planning is appropriately vested at the state and local levels. and accords states and tribes flexibility in using their money. importantly. the legislation also recognizes that the federal government should play a role in financing these activities. through enactment of transportation. housing. environmental. energy. and ecoic development laws and requirements. congress has created a demand for state and local planning. in fact. the community character act should be viewed as providing the federal payment for an unfunded mandate whose account is overdue. the senators who have sponsored this bill represent geographically diverse states. from rhode island to new mexico and from georgia to utah. this bipartisan bill represents a small investment in our communities i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill. a summary of the bill. and letters of support for the bill be printed in the record.
s of both parties is testament to the high regard that official washington had for his intellect and integrity. as a dear friend of my fathers for over 25 years. my strongest sense of the senator comes from hearing my dad speak of senator moynihan with reverence and true admiration. upon my fathers passing. senator moynihan included an excerpt from a wonderful poem by w.b. yeats. "the municipal gallery revisited." in his tribute. those kind words were a great comfort to our family. in the words of aher poem by the poet w.b. yeats: the man is gone guided ye. unweary. through the long bitter way. ye by the waves that close in our sad nation. be full of sudden fears. the man is gone who from this lonely btation -has moulded the hard year... mournand then onward. there is returning he guides ye from the tomb. his memory is a tall pillar. burning before the gloom our nation will mourn. but senator moynihan would insist that we move on. on behalf of my mother and the chafee family. we send our sincere condolences to liz and all her family.
ial letter to local officials shortly after his arrival. explaining that he would return the following spring to receive the japanese reply. he arrived in edo bay slightly ahead of schedule. on february 13. 1854. this time with nine ships anchored near the city of kanagawa. the cultural exchanges continued. after a stunning parade on land. perry arranged a 21gun salute to ho the emperor. and then flew the shoguns" flag from the masthead of one of his ships. he presented his hosts with an array of gifts. including books. maps of america. whiskey. wine. clocks. rifles. perfumes. a miniature steam engine with railroad. and telegraph equipmentall of which aroused much awe in the growing crowds. the japanese presented the commodore and his officers with gifts from the emperor. including scrolls. porcelain tea sets. silks. jars of soy sauce. umbrellas. swords. and ornate lacquer ware. they even treated the sailors to a sumo wrestling show. when one japanese commissioner left an americanhosted banquet. he gave perry a crushing hug and exclaimed. "japan and america. all the same heart." on march 31. after weeks of delicate and complex negotiations. a treaty declaring "peace and friendship between the united states of america and the empire of japan" was signed. the treaty of kanagawa opened the seaports of shimoda and hokodate to american ships. and granted shipwrecked sailors protection in japan. after the signing. the japanese held a great feast for the americans. and there was much celebration. as author rhoda blumberg writes. "it is remarkable that people in the land of the shogun could be so gracious and hospitable to unwanted visitors from the black ships and that the americans could overcome their prejudice against a different people and enjoy their company." americans and japanese were gracious. hospitable. and did enjoy each others company at their first encounter. and that relationship continues today. the japanamerica society and black ships festival of rhode island have helped maintain the bonds of friendship between our two nations. this month. representatives from rhode island will be participating in a ceremony iii newport. rhode islands sister city. shimoda. japan. commemorating the 65th anniversary of miy 5. 2004 ca) that citys lack ishiibs.:festivdi. liam proud to .drav the sentes .1ttentiodl tr this historic ioceasion.. and to ex press on..behalf of my .olleaguesour deep congratulations to mayor naoki ishii. members of the city council. and the citizens of shimoda. japan as they host the celebration of the mutual friendship and shared values between our two nations. common bonds that will last for many years to come.*
. congress must make an immediate. thorough review of the governments response to hurricane katrina and its aftermath. as a member of the senate homeland security committee. i am committed to working with chairwoman susan collins and ranking member joe lieberman to ensure that the investigation is conducted in a bipartisan fashion. we have already begun this investigation. on wednesday. september 14. our committee held its first hearing on the effects of hurricane katrina and heard from former california gov. pete wilson. former new orleans mayor marc morial. and former grand forks. nd. mayor patricia owens. each of these respected public officials have led their citizens through past natural disasters and shared .their experiences with us in the hearings. in the coming weeks. we will call in leaders from the administration and other relevant parties to determine what was done right and what was done wrong in responding to hurricane katrina. we.intend to make whatever changes in structure. funding and personnel that are necessary to ensure that we are prepared to handle disasters--either natural or manmadein the future. during consideration of the fiscal year 2006 commercejusticescience appropriations bill. senator hillary clinton offered an amendment to create a new committee to investigate hurricane katrina. i did  support this amendment for two reasons. first. it violated senate rules by adding legislation to an appropriations bill. i have strongly opposed such legislative "riders" in the past since many of the "riders" have been- used to undermine environmental laws. i believe that legislation should move through the appropriate authorization committees for consideration. second. i believe that our homeland security committee is doing the necessary work to conduct a full investigation. the work has already begun. a new committee could take months to be organized and set up. the american people should  have to wait to have accountability.
 eisenhower paid to the kauders a richly deserved compliment in the following telegram sent to the mayor of lawrence. mass.. hon. john buckley: through senator leverett saltonstall. i have learned of the civic gathering in ho of messrs. erick and fred kauders. i understand that these brothers are observing their 20th year in the united states. in these two decades. they have contributed much to the strength of their community and adopted country. please give them my congratulations and best wishes.
further. . we have been gratified to receive encouragement for the bills which we have introduced from the national association of counties and the national league of cities. formerly kn as the american municipal association. and i ask unanimous consent to include at this point in the record letters from these organizations which indicate their support in principle of the recommendations which we are making to the house today.
. the opposition has been obliged to temper its original hostility to the program as they have come to realize its popularity in the countryside. on the other hand. the local program seems to have had particular influence on the elections for the national and provincial assemblies. the problem here is that subsistence societies are atomized societies. as we all k. the villager or the urban slumdweller must first of all be able to think of himself as a citizen of his township and county or city before he can be expected to understand a governmental unit as remote from his personal life as the provincial and national government. whereas members of the local development committees had difficulty in understanding that some of their number should run for the township councils. they have  yet persuaded themselves that local leaders might also become members of the higher legislative bodies. or that local people can influence candidates for the higher bodies. thus. development was a major campaign issue at the township level. but in the elections for the two higher assemblies. development was hardly mentioned. the villager must be able to distinguish between policy and implementation so that he ks whether the politician to be influenced is the member of the local council or the local member of the higher assemblies. at the time the election was held. the villagers were still learning about the implementation and still thinking in county and township terms. how quickly their level of understanding will expand ody ks. but hopefully. in the 1970 elections there will be some evidence that the fusion of national and local interest is underway. the social trends are of the kind which suggest that the democratic faith in g~dual change is still a practicable ideal. in mao tse tungs peasant version of mr. marx. there is supposed to be an irreconcilable conflict between traditional leaders and subsistence farmers. if the present trend continues. history will record that the bengali villagers are incompetent marxists but good jeffersonians. there is considerable evidence that the villagers will continue to accept the traditional leaders if they are willing to become development leaders. the other way round. there is considerable evidence that the traditional leaders prefer to accept development rather than risk the loss of their inherited position of power and privilege. the evidence consists of the continuation in office or participation in the committee system of many of the traditional leaders. in the village. reorganization in favor of development seems to start happening spontaneously as an indirect result of development activities. those who participate in development gradually become the dominant group. often before they become the majority. gradually trust begins to replace suspicion. the villagers begin to work together and with others from the same township and county as they realize that all can benefit from common effort. and as they come to realize that an irrigation ditch follows the contour of the land and  the contour of local rivalries. the nature of argument is beginning to change. people are learning that compromising differences of opinion or accepting the will of the majority is a necessary prelude to action. that meeting deadlines is important if plans are to be turned into reality. finally. government employees are beginning to work with the people and the people are beginning to think of public officials as helpers.  masters. of the problem of bringing local people and local officials together in britain a century ago. one constitutional authority wrote: "the county magistrates. instead of sulking at their partial dethronement. came forward with public spirit to assume a new role and new duties. to their experienced guidance is owing the fact that a profound transition has been effected without friction and without breach of continuity." there is the same trend in east pakistan today. i would like to close with a few sentences from the final volume of churchills "history of the english speaking peoples." he wrote them as a summary statement about the rise of democracy in britain in the 19th century. in future tense. they could as well be a statement of the ultimate purpose of democratic development in britain. in east pakistan. or puerto rico. or any country. "the aristocracy. who had guided for certures the advance of britain. was merged in the rising mass of the nation .... progress and prosperity had been continuous in all classes. conservative forces had shown that they could ride the storm. and indeed that there was great storm between the domestic parties. . . . one felt himself left out of the constitution .... it did  matter which party ruled. though they found fault with one aher. as they had a perfect right to do. e of the ancient inhibitions obstructed the adventurous. ... active and vigorous politics should be sustained. to go forward gradually but boldly seemed to be fully justified."
 johnsons anncement of march 31 of this year. his sensitivity. commonsense. integrity. and good humor will be missed by all of us. but our loss will be the gain of others. we wish him every success and happiness in his new effortswe are mighty proud to have kn and served with him. . many of his former colleagues join with us. i am sure. in wishing mac their very best. i have received letters from the mayor of new york city. the hoable john v. lindsay. and from the former gover of pennsylvania. the hoable william scranton. both of whom served with mac in the house. i should like to insert in the record at this point. their expressions of good wishes:
. john lindsay. the distinguished mayor of new york. was among those privileged to serve with bill here in the house. when bill died. john wrote to me to ask that i extend his sympathy to his family and his friends in the house. i include mayor lindsays letter at this point in the record:
i  only recall the testimony. i read it previously. i want to say that i do  feel at liberty to speak regarding the late mayor as i would speak if he were still living. and i think we will let it go at that. however. i would point out that there have been over the years a number of things on which the late mayor of the city of new york and i did  agree. this happens to be one of them. at the same time i would point out that the present mayor of the city of new york is very much and strongly opposed to this seaway project. the reason i have  presented his position in any way. shape. or manner is because i have been trying to keep this thing on a national level. never minding what new yorks local interests are in this matter. presumably and for the sake of the debate let us accept the idea that new york stands to gain as much as it would lose as a state. and i think it is fair to leave it on that basis. i have been trying to look at the seaway proposition from a national aspect and keep out of any provincialism. any localism. or any sectionalism. or anything else of the kind.
let us get clear upon the separate development business. i made such a proposal here to the senate but my proposal did  call for the expenditure of a nickel of federal money for the project at all. under my proposal. by a treaty between the united states and canada authorization would be granted to the state of new york and the province of ontario to work out such a program between themselves. to be financed by themselves.
. the pending amendment. which would authorize the development of the st. lawrence river seaway and power project. to say the least. is startling in purport. without senate hearings on this question. without opportunity for proper debate on the amendment. with a full kledge that a similar proposal has been turned down by a house committee during the present session of the congress. with the definite implication that this proposed project is strictly a defense measure. we are asked by its supporters to decide immediately and perfunctorily upon it. if i had always favored this proposal. i should  favor the present haphazard manner of dealing with it. in the first place. it has almost hing whatever to do with the bill before us. either in purpose or in probable effect. in the second place. even if agreed to. it would almost surely be rejected by the house. in the third place. the inclusion of this amendment in this bill might seriously jeopardize the whole foreignaid program. i repeat: even if i had always favored the st. lawrence seaway and power project. i should nevertheless oppose this amendment. as the record will show. thus far i have never favored the seaway part of this proposal. i have never been convinced that it would accomplish that which its supporters claim for it. on the contrary. i still believe that. as a measure of defense. it would prove to be at least a "white elephant." i have never been convinced that the tremendous cost entailed in its construction could be justified. even in time of peace. i am still of the belief that this proposal is impractical. and that. in spite ofindeed. because ofthe provisions in section 603 of the amendment. it would  be selfliquidating. i feel sure that all of the arguments which have been advanced against it in the past still hold. and that new ones can be added to them. as for the power project contained in this proposal. i have consistently maintained that the construction of the seaway is  essential for this purpose. in fact. new york state has been seeking authorization of the federal power commission to permit the power development prcject through joint action with the province of ontario. right here i want to point out that new york state is insisting that we shall be only too glad to share this power with our neighboring states. including all the states in new england. and pennsylvania. ohio. and other states. if there be sufficient power for that purpose. as all k. who are acquainted with the situation. the federal power commission has refused to consent to this power undertaking. i would point out to those who may support this amendment because of its power development feature that neither the amendment  the seaway is essential to this end. apropos of this brief statement and at this point in my remarks. i ask to have inserted in the record the text of my statement before the senate on the subject  under discussion. which was delivered on february 4. 1948. during the course of the senate debate on the question at that time.
i think my colleague heard the statement i made as to the power project contemplated by this proposal. i said that new york state has been requesting the federal power commission to permit the power development project through joint action with the province of ontario.  so that the remarks i wish to make will be taken out of time at the disposal of our side.
i just wanted to say. very briefly. that the mayor of our largest city. new york city. john lindsay has supported the existing esea bill. he feels that any cutbacks in funds to new york cityperhaps amounting to $50 to $55 millionwill be a matter of grave concern and that the retention of the present law would be preferable.
. as my distinguished colleague. the former mayor of louisville. ky. . pointed out. there are only four cities in the united states still operating with this form of commission government. i believe that reorganization plan  3. while it is  home rulewhich i hope the house will act onrepresents. etheless. a step forward. the committee .on government operations has worked hard on the study of this matter. its bipartisan judgment is clear. and i very much hope and believe that the house will confirm that judgment and uphold reorganization plan  3.
. i would like to insert mayor lindsays analysis of funding of these and other programs into the record. together with an editorial from this mornings new york times. which calls for a prompt response by the congress to mayor lindsays pleas:
. i had the privilege this morning of attending the opening of the office of the city of new york in washington. d.c.. at 1730 k street nw. this is a major step forward for urban areas. a first of its kind. and ackledges the fact. long hoed only by sufferance. that the activities of this congress and of the agencies of the federal government have a major significance in the future of urban centers.  until the election of a former member of this house. my predecessor. the hoable john v. lindsay. as mayor. however. did new york city accept this obvious fact. mayor lindsay is to be commended on his perspicacity. members of the congress from new york city attending the opening included: senator jacob k. javits. and congressmen joseph p. addabbo. jona-
. on monday. august 22. at the invitation of the u.s. senate subcommittee on executive reorganization. the mayor of new york city. my predecessor from the 17th congressional district. manhattan. the hoable john v. lindsay appeared to give testimony on the crisis of our cities. the event was well publicized as the forerunner of a series of appearances by mayors of many cities including detroit. los angeles. new haven. and so forth. excerpts from mayor lindsays talk have appeared in the daily press with references to the fact that in new york city there are as many problems as people. however. the thought and experience which went into the preparation of the full text of the address ought  to be lost to a wider audience. and so by leave of this body in which john v. lindsay served for 7 years. the 7 good years. and to which he returns from time to time to seek aid and succor for the greatest city in the world. which he  serves as chief executive. i include for the perusal of my colleagues the full text of his talk: text or testimony by john v. lindsay.
. with the multitude of problems facing urban areas and new york city in particular. some of which were detailed by mayor john v. lindsay in his appearance on august 22. before the senate subcommittee on executive reorganizationsee "the crisis of our cities." congressional record of friday. august 26. 1966. page 20898it is gratifying to learn something is going right. the american city magazine. a respected journal on municipal affairs. which has its office in my 17th congressional district of manhattan. will report in its october 1966. issue that new york citys water system is  the sieve that many thought it was. [from the american city magazine]
. on august 22 new york citys mayor john v. lindsay testified before the u.s. senate subcommittee on executive reorganization on the subject of "the crisis of our cities"-see the congressional record of august 26. page 20898. he has returned to washington and continued the dialog at the urban america conference held here on monday. september 12. the title of his most recent talk is "new realities for the american city." and i commend it to my colleagues. of special interest will be mayor lindsays urging thatthe congress should establish. as a matter of the highest priority. a committee on urban affairs in both the senate and the house. hopefully. the leadership in both parties will soon make the anncement that a standing committee on urban affairs will be established in the next congress.
. the wall street journal is  merely a barometer of business finance. among many other things. it is concerned with the hard headed facts of municipal budgets and urban decay and the need for meeting the problems of our cities in the 20th century. because of our similar interest. henry christman. director of the new york city record in mayor john v. lindsays cabinet. and i presented to the wall street journal a viable program for the future in aid of metropolitan taxpayers. our article appears in the journal of monday. april 1. 1968. together with their editorial comment. i k my colleagues will be interested.
. i want to commend the gentleman from new york for his judicious approval to this question. the point of order against his proposed amendment was clearly valid under rule xi subsection 15(a). as indicated during general debate on the rule on this bill. see pages 19390 and 19391 of the record of monday. july 1. on the merits. i think the record should show that mayor john v. lindsay. in conjunction with the department of transportation. has made an historic proposal for highway construction in brooklyn. n.y.. that will help keep additional traffic out of the center of manhattan and. for a change. i repeat ""-wreak havoc with the area and population involved. this proposal called "inner city" provides for schools. housing. and shopping alongside the proposed highway. while one is wedded to the specific area. the proposal. as explained in the new york times of saturday. june 29. certainly deserves consideration. by unanimous consent of the house. i am including in the record the new york times reference to mayor lindsays inner city proposal.
that is very generous of the majority leader. but that will  be necessary. i enjoyed hearing his comments. as i always do. he is one of the premier speakers here and. if i am  here personally to hear him. i always turn on my mike in the office to hear him. but we have made our point. i do hope that whoever is writing that material down at the white house will eliminate these references to the need for niore democrats to support the president. maybe he needs democrats for some other reasons. i do  k. fishing companions. baseball companions. but  to support his program because. frankly. as i mentioned. the best thing is to turn this speech into its right form. maybe they have got the words mixed up. she should have said. "we want more republicans in the senate to support the presidents program." maybe the words got twisted around. but it seems to me that would be the right approach. i will suggest that to the speechwriters. whether it will be accepted or  i do  k. i thank the chair.
. i am pleased to bring to the senate today comprehensive amendments to the environmental protection agencys municipal waste water treatment construction grants program. extensive hearings were held on this legislation and it was reported without a single dissenting vote from the full committee. for a number of reasons. when the committee report was filed. the cbo cost estimate was unavailable. it has since been made available and i wish to include the letter and cost estimate in the record at this point.
. this argument that has been presented by the senior senator from louisiana. of course. is  a new one. it was discussed with considerable diligence and considerable time on the floor of the senate a year ago and on other occasions* only the interest on municipal bonds is totally tax exempt. this does  mean the bond is tax exempt. for example. taxexempt municipal bonds are subject to the federal capital gains tax. taxexempt municipal bonds. when they are included in the estate as part of the federal estate tax return. are subject to the federal estate tax.. taxexempt municipal bonds are subject to the federal gift tax. so what we are doing is  any great departure. we are  taxing the interest on the bonds. that has clearly been pointed out many. many times. the interest is only being considered to arrive at the threshold.
the senator from texas is correct. you have accurately described one of the primary purposes of this section of the clean water act. because industrial wastewater is mixed with large volumes of domestic sewage in typical municipal potws. general pretreatment requirements are included in the apt to assure that industrial discharges into potws are treated prior to dilution by the domestic sewage.
. i wish to congratulate the senator from georgia who has worked diligently on this and been persistent in pressing his amendment. i do think it is important to e that industrial site includes the plant or plantassociated areas to conform to epa regulations. a municipal separate storm sewer does  include combined sewer overflows. which are considered publicly owned treatment works under the construction grants program. finally. in determining what is a significant contributor of pollutants. the administrator need  prove a violation of water quality standards or requirements. in making the determination. he may consider discharges in other permitted categories. the location of such discharges. the quantity
. this argument that has been presented by the senior senator from louisiana. of course. is  a new one. it was discussed with considerable diligence and considerable time on the floor of the senate a year ago and on other occasions* only the interest on municipal bonds is totally tax exempt. this does  mean the bond is tax exempt. for example. taxexempt municipal bonds are subject to the federal capital gains tax. taxexempt municipal bonds. when they are included in the estate as part of the federal estate tax return. are subject to the federal estate tax.. taxexempt municipal bonds are subject to the federal gift tax. so what we are doing is  any great departure. we are  taxing the interest on the bonds. that has clearly been pointed out many. many times. the interest is only being considered to arrive at the threshold.
the senator from texas is correct. you have accurately described one of the primary purposes of this section of the clean water act. because industrial wastewater is mixed with large volumes of domestic sewage in typical municipal potws. general pretreatment requirements are included in the apt to assure that industrial discharges into potws are treated prior to dilution by the domestic sewage.
. i wish to congratulate the senator from georgia who has worked diligently on this and been persistent in pressing his amendment. i do think it is important to e that industrial site includes the plant or plantassociated areas to conform to epa regulations. a municipal separate storm sewer does  include combined sewer overflows. which are considered publicly owned treatment works under the construction grants program. finally. in determining what is a significant contributor of pollutants. the administrator need  prove a violation of water quality standards or requirements. in making the determination. he may consider discharges in other permitted categories. the location of such discharges. the quantity
 bush is planning to issue a proclamation in commemoration of national recycling month. recycling is a concept whose time has come. we are facing a crises in solid waste management in the united states. a few simple facts and figures serve well to illustrate the magnitude of the problem. each year. the united states generates about 160 million tons of solid wastealmost twice the amount generated 20 years ago. if this trend continues. the united states will be generating annually almost 200 million tons by the year 2000. towns and cities in my home state. and across the nation. are realizing that many of their city dumps will be full. and forced to close their gates in just a few short years. they have good reason to be concerned. since 1970 the number of landfills accepting solid waste has reduced dramaticallyfrom almost 30.000 to only 6.000. it has become virtually impossible to establish any new landfill sites due to both the rising value of land and real estate and what i call the " in my backyard syndrome." in the coming weeks. senator baucus and i will introduce legislation to establish a national policy for dealing with municipal solid waste. emphasizing the importance of recycling of waste. a successful u.s. recycling effort will require the cooperation of every citizen. to encourage that cooperation i we must increase awareness among americans about the benefit and importance of recycling. through public education. reducing the amount of household garbage we generate poses the most difficult of public policy problems: changing human habits. the purpose of designating april as national recycling month is to make people aware that their actions do have a critical impact on reducing the amount of garbage entering the waste stream. all of us must understand that our garbage does  disappear when a sanitation worker loads it into a truck. our society must be made aware that there are very real costs. both finan. cial and environmental. associated with the continued proliferation of municipal garbage. how can consumers contribute to the total reduction of garbage entering the solid waste stream. there are two concrete actions they can take. first. to show a preference for store items which can be recycled. and which do  use an excessive amount of packaging. consumers must be made aware that there is an additional price to be paid for the 16 billion disposable diapers. the 2 billion disposable razors. 1.6 billion pens. and 220 million tires discarded each year. by some accounts up to 40 percent of all household garbage is packaging. in 1985. consumers paid $29 billion for food packaging. a cost exceeding the total price paid to farmers for the contents of those packages. consumers can reduce waste by using goods that are durable and reusable. such as ceramic plates instead of paper plates. by reusing microwave serving plates. and by using a diaper service. which in most cases is competitive with the cost of disposable diapers. by composting yard wastes such as leaves. and by repairing. instead of disposing of. broken home appliances. second. all americans can learn about and practice sound disposal methods at an early age. so that by adulthood those practices will be automatic. the primary reason we have selected april as national recycling month is to provide schools with an opportunity to organize appropriate educational activities to promote recycling activities before the summer recess. i hope that my colleagues will encourage schools in their states to observe recycling month with such ac. tivities. the designation of april as national recycling month will be a success if more americans are made aware that their personal handling of recyclable waste can save energy. improve our ability to store or treat waste. and protect the environment. i hope all of my colleagues will work with their home states to promote national recycling month.9 crisis
. i want to join in the distinguished floor managers plea on several fronts. first. for those who have amendments. bring them over. second. that we  have germane amendments. that is. amendments that are  pertinent to the interstate transportation of municipal waste. namely trash or garbage. i believe very strongly that we should  have any amendments that do  deal with that particular subject. indeed. i will oppose them all. as the floor manager has himself indicated. because otherwise we are going to get bogged down. we have a major resource. conservation. and recovery act amendment legislation that we have reported out of the environment committee. and that will get to the floor either this year ornext year. we will revise it in committee and bring it back. it will get to the floor eventually. and that is where we ought to consider amendments that deal with the subject of rcra. the only subject before us today is the matter of interstate transportation of municipal waste. so let us get on with that. if people have amendments. bring them over and let us vote them up or down. meanwhile. i hope that these negotiations involving the socalled coats amendment can be brought to successful fruition. if those negotiations work out. i think we can finish this piece of legislation before dinner tonightbefore 5. 6. or maybe 7 oclock. so i urge those senators who have legislation that is pertinent to the underlying bill to bring it over and let us vote up or down on it. i thank the chair. and i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i recognize. as the senator from th dakota said several times. he has these communities that are very. very small. i think he indicated that there are 4 communities in his state where the population is 10 or less. and that is unique. question about it. the trouble with the suggestion of the local solidwaste planning units is. it seems to me. twofold. first. these are appointed entities that have accountability. yes. eventually they can be replaced. but they are  elected entities. and the senator from th dakota would suggest--or he has proposedby substituting the word "or" in place of the word "and" on page 2. line 12. he would give these local planning units tremendous power. first of all. as i mentioned before. they are appointed. and thus they lack the accountability that exists with the local government. second. they frequently involve interstate entities. in other words. they are  always just for that state. because it is all too often these situations arise across borders. entities that are close to the border of an adjacent state. and so that is a tangle. also. i think that the whole purpose of one of these solidwaste planning units is to take care of their own dumps. and i think the answer would be inevitably that they would appeal to the gover to shut off imports. and one of the worries we have here in devising this legislation is. as has been mentioned several times. 43 states in the nation export solid waste--or in this instance. garbageand 42 import. so this is  something that is some figment of our imagination and we can just sit here and draw up laws that can affect various states. thinking: well. e of it is happening . and this will prevent it from occurring. already we have tremendous interf. somebody pointed out yesterday that if you drew a map of the united states with arrows going from one community to aher community. and from one state to aher state. it would look like a jar full of polliwogs--lines all over the chart. so. therefore. we have to proceed with considerable caution here. i would like to. if i might. address the concerns of the senator about precedent and principle. i do  think that because this is the way we have handled this particular problem of municipal waste. that inevitably it follows that that is exactly what we will do when we come to industrial waste. industrial waste is a far larger problem than municipal waste. i gave those statistics earlier. i think my statistics show there are 200 million tons of municipal waste and 8 billion tons of industrial waste. so we are going to start fresh when we deal with industrial waste. industrial waste is so much more complicated. so i do  think the senators concerns that whatever we do here is going to be etched in stone are really justified. he feels that way. but i am trying. to -the degree i can. to reassure him that certainly this senator. who has been on the committee and acted on it for many years. is  necessarily going to say. "well. that is the way we did it with municipal waste. that is the way it has to be done. this is the way we have to handle industrial waste. take that prior act we passed in july last year--and just take the language right out of itand that is the way we will handle it." the senator has mentioned he is  going to be here. i regret he is leaving. but i think his concerns about precedent and principle should  be so overriding. i do  k whether he will accept some form of solace it or .
. i must say. i think most people would be astonished to find out there is a cap on this type of bond. it seems to me it is like a municipal bond. there is hing associated with industrial revenue or anything like this. it is a municipal bond. you issue municipal bonds to build the local fire station. or you issue municipal bonds to build the schools. you issue municipal bonds to build a police station. this is just issuing municipal bonds to build a local sewage plant or make the reations on it. if necessary. for some reason. these are treated differently. there is a cap on them under the law as we currently have it. it is an artificial cap in many ways. it has hing to do with industrial revenne bonds. the senator from ohio started talking about. we put a cap on that because we did  want industrial revenue bonds to be used to build a dairy delight or a mcdonalds or law offices. they are very restricted because we wanted to have what truly was industrial development. but these are just complying with mandates that are issued. but. true. it seems to me they are just similar to municipal improvements. the local water works. i am really surprised that there is a cap on them anyway. i think the senator has a good amendment.
. what i really hope is that the senator will withdraw his amendment. as the senator ks. we have had hearings on this. we have arrived at the tonnage limitations that affect importing states and exporting limits. we have had them agree to this very carefully. through a lot of laborious negotiations. if we add all the tonnage that comes with socalled industrial waste. and ody ks how to define "industrial waste." then we truly have upset the apple cart. what can we promise the senator. i think he has a legitimate request that in the committee we would consider how to handiei suppose we could get into municipal waste. into construction. demolition debris. also. and maybe that is something we ought to look at in the future. i do  want to say we will do it immediately if we agree to it. we have a pretty full agenda in that committee. i say to the senator that i.would agree to having some hearings in the future. i am  saying this calendar year. because this calendar year is really just taken up with all kinds of challenges in the committee including endangered species. superfund. clean water. plus the other things we have on the agenda.
 under the new provision. a connection is  considered. for purposes of determining whether an entity is a public water system. if the water is treated by a passthrough entity to achieve a level of treatment equivalent to the level provided by applicable drinking water regulations. in the case you describe. the municipal water system would be providing such treatment. and the irrigation systems provision of water to the municipal water system would  be considered a connection.
let me finish. if i might. i have here a letter. dated july 10. as i was saying just before the senator from utah came in. this is  some musty letter i dragged out of the files from a couple of years ago. this was written 3 days ago. in it. it says: we believe the proposed legislation. including the proposed technical amendments [i.e. those you have been referring to] would fundamentally interfere with the preemptive traditional and historic rights. and who signed it. well. the gover george voiich. chairman. national govers association. richard finan. president. ohio state senate and president. national conference of state legislatures. randy johnson. president. national association of counties. councilmember brian oneill of philadelphia. president. national league of cities. and then. of course the mayor of salt lake city. here is her signature. deedee corradini. i am sure she is a very able. intelligent. and fine lady. and an excellent administrator. so she directs this to all senators. i am sure the senator has received a copy. . madam president. let me just say this. in each of our cities and each of our states. we have a system for resolitng zoning problems. for example. the way it works in my stateit might be entirely different in the state of the presiding officer or the state of the principal proponent of this legislationif my property is zoned residential and i want to put a gas station next to my house and i think that would be a real winner. i could make a lot of money from that gas station it is true that 30 other houses on the plat might  like it. but i like it. so i go before. in our state. i go before the zoning board of review. i go before the zoning board. i would seek a variance. i presume i might well be turned down. then i go to the zoning board of appeals. in other words. i take the second step. . under this legislation. if i took that first step before the zoning board and was turned down and then i went to the zoning board of appeals. i wouldnt even have to wait for a decision. all i have to do is go before that. take that second stepin other words. one appealand then i can say. "this is taking too long." and "i want to go into the federal court." and i can go into the federal court. then the federal court. under this legislation. takes up the matter. i just dont think that is what we want. so many times on the floor of this senate we inveigh. all of us have. against one size fits all. yet that is exactly what we are doing here. we are saying.    we dont like your system that you have in maine. in bangor. the way they are handling these appeals. we will let that person go into that federal court and there is incentive to negotiate. to come up with a compromise. when it is done on a city level or town level. as it is in my state. having the zoning board say. cant you people work this out. a gas station. that sounds like a little much. but talk with your neighbors and see what they say. perhaps in some other area you can work this out. but we want to negotiate. that is  true when you get this thing in the federal court. they then come down with a decision and they direct the zoning boardissue a permit for such and -such. is that really what we want. i find this an astonishing proposal. i certainly hope that we are  going to get in this situation where powers that200 years. these powers have resided in the local communities. because somebody said. "oh. they take too long. we dont like those long delays. so we are going to make it so you can go into the federal court." well. apparently the people who live there don:t think itis taking too long or they would change it. we are  helpless in our local communities. and wherever one is. whether it is each greenwich. ri. or ellsworth. me. the people dont like the situation. they can change it. that is perfectly possible. what the law is saying. we dont like the way you are doing things down there. you are taking too long. so we will have those activist federal judges that we have heard senators on the floor inveigh against so ofteni certainly hope that this cloture will  be invoked on this matter. i might say. this issue isnt whether private- property owners should be protected or whether private property owners are entitled to just compensation if their property is taken for public use. the fifth amendment already provides for that. you can get into the federal court under the present system. you dont need this legislation. you have to permit the case to ripen. that is what the courts have been saying. in other words. exhaust your remedies on the local level before you can go into the federal courts. i greatly hope. as i said before. that for the sake of the locals and those who believe that powers should be at the local level. that a system that has been in place for the past 200 years is  arbitrarily changed as is proposed by this legislation here. i thank the chair.
let me finish. if i might. i have here a letter. dated july 10. as i was saying just before the senator from utah came in. this is  some musty letter i dragged out of the files from a couple of years ago. this was written 3 days ago. in it. it says: we believe the proposed legislation. including the proposed technical amendments [i.e. those you have been referring to] would fundamentally interfere with the preemptive traditional and historic rights. and who signed it. well. the gover george voiich. chairman. national govers association. richard finan. president. ohio state senate and president. national conference of state legislatures. randy johnson. president. national association of counties. councilmember brian oneill of philadelphia. president. national league of cities. and then. of course the mayor of salt lake city. here is her signature. deedee corradini. i am sure she is a very able. intelligent. and fine lady. and an excellent administrator. so she directs this to all senators. i am sure the senator has received a copy. . madam president. let me just say this. in each of our cities and each of our states. we have a system for resolitng zoning problems. for example. the way it works in my stateit might be entirely different in the state of the presiding officer or the state of the principal proponent of this legislationif my property is zoned residential and i want to put a gas station next to my house and i think that would be a real winner. i could make a lot of money from that gas station it is true that 30 other houses on the plat might  like it. but i like it. so i go before. in our state. i go before the zoning board of review. i go before the zoning board. i would seek a variance. i presume i might well be turned down. then i go to the zoning board of appeals. in other words. i take the second step. . under this legislation. if i took that first step before the zoning board and was turned down and then i went to the zoning board of appeals. i wouldnt even have to wait for a decision. all i have to do is go before that. take that second stepin other words. one appealand then i can say. "this is taking too long." and "i want to go into the federal court." and i can go into the federal court. then the federal court. under this legislation. takes up the matter. i just dont think that is what we want. so many times on the floor of this senate we inveigh. all of us have. against one size fits all. yet that is exactly what we are doing here. we are saying.    we dont like your system that you have in maine. in bangor. the way they are handling these appeals. we will let that person go into that federal court and there is incentive to negotiate. to come up with a compromise. when it is done on a city level or town level. as it is in my state. having the zoning board say. cant you people work this out. a gas station. that sounds like a little much. but talk with your neighbors and see what they say. perhaps in some other area you can work this out. but we want to negotiate. that is  true when you get this thing in the federal court. they then come down with a decision and they direct the zoning boardissue a permit for such and -such. is that really what we want. i find this an astonishing proposal. i certainly hope that we are  going to get in this situation where powers that200 years. these powers have resided in the local communities. because somebody said. "oh. they take too long. we dont like those long delays. so we are going to make it so you can go into the federal court." well. apparently the people who live there don:t think itis taking too long or they would change it. we are  helpless in our local communities. and wherever one is. whether it is each greenwich. ri. or ellsworth. me. the people dont like the situation. they can change it. that is perfectly possible. what the law is saying. we dont like the way you are doing things down there. you are taking too long. so we will have those activist federal judges that we have heard senators on the floor inveigh against so ofteni certainly hope that this cloture will  be invoked on this matter. i might say. this issue isnt whether private- property owners should be protected or whether private property owners are entitled to just compensation if their property is taken for public use. the fifth amendment already provides for that. you can get into the federal court under the present system. you dont need this legislation. you have to permit the case to ripen. that is what the courts have been saying. in other words. exhaust your remedies on the local level before you can go into the federal courts. i greatly hope. as i said before. that for the sake of the locals and those who believe that powers should be at the local level. that a system that has been in place for the past 200 years is  arbitrarily changed as is proposed by this legislation here. i thank the chair.
if i may finish they voted 9 to 4 in favor. the mayor of the city of washington is in favor. regardless of what calls are coming into the offices of the distinguished senator from vermont. the fact is.  1. we operate in an election system which is fairly well set forth. we do  have to rely on phone calls into our office and. in any event. we are supposed to be u.s. senators and  pollsters. . i ask for the yeas and nays on this amendment.
i asked the question. . i hope that the senate ethics committee. in consultation with the rules committee and the governmental affairs committee. will see to it that meaningful evaluation is brought forth to the senate floor 30 days hence. and that at that time the leadership will so schedule the matter that whatever is in place come july 1 will be effective. i am tired. and i might add.  naive in the sense of  being associated with politics. too. of at times hearing that "the senator from connecticut is. well. you k. he is naive. he is idealistic." oh.  six years in the statehouse in hartford. 4 years elected mayor of a town. 2 years in the house. 9 years in the senate. and i have seen government in all of its aspects. those who say that the rule of the game is corruption. ineptness. selfaggrandizement do  k what they are talking about. the rule among 98 percent is a dedication. an integrity. unparalleled in any other profession in this country. if it is  so i also have a great belief in the present election process and in the intelligence of the american voters. i would far rather that that intelligence and that evaluation be exercised by them than be exercised by a small group of individuals. be they senators or be they staff. and who hold in their hands the fate of any member of this body or any member of the staff supporting this body. commonsense is all i want. commonsense in the way of ethics legislation. and then the judgment of the american people. there is argument to me that only 34 percent of the american people choose to exercise that judgment on election day. it is their responsibility both to see to the substance of what it is in the nature of our national priorities. it is their responsibility to see what it is that will be the ethics of those they send to serve. that is the system. and that is a system that will work. and one which i hope we will adopt
. i can. on behalf of the committee or on behalf of its chairman. agree at the present time to accepting this amendment. it obviously is a substantive change in the law. it clearly is legislation on arl appropriations bill. more particularly. the matter being addressed by the senator from california is.properly the province of the committee on government operations. senator roth is chairman of that committee and is  present at this time. for all those reasons. i must. at least at this juncture. oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from california. and i suggest the absence of a quorum.
 himself is so limited in his discretionary power as is the mayor of washington by this expressed intention of the committee on the district of columbia. this is  a matter which can be brought to a vote. the wording of the committees final report can  be changed. but the committees insistence that its intentions be observed can be modified. and its suggestion that this provision may be written into law in the years to come can and should be opposed.
. the department of interior has objected to the legislation on the ground that it confers "partial federal control" over the islands. hing could be further from the truth. to put it simply. island has to do anything. if residents choose to submit plans. there will be e and action will follow. the purpose of the bill is to offer a federal trust fund as an incentive for preservation of a national resource. if federal moneys are drawn upon. it must be for expenditures under land use standards agreed on by local. state. and federal authorities as provided in s. 67. this is the finest example of how the much talked about new federalism may be given effective and creative expression. indeed. this bill is  so much a remedy as it is a challenge. and it is a challenge to which i am confident the residents of marthas vineyard. nantucket. and the elizabeth islands can and will rise. for it is only through the efforts of these tireless citizens that senator kennedy and i can introduce this legislation . and it will be because of their dedication and enthusiasm that this bill will achieve its goals.
i shared the senator from virginias fears when this bill was before the committee. i think that had we come in. as we were urged to do within the committee. and passed the loan guarantee bill that had been proposed. then the city of new york and the state of new york and the private sector would  have done any more. they would just have come in and taken their guaranteed loans. cxxi2417part 29 in the testimony the senator has before him. i think a question was raised that mayor beame had one figure and i think the gover of new york had aher as to how much money they actually needed to help them.
i can believe. and i do  think the senator from oklahoma believes. and i have heard testimony from anybody else who believes that the city of new york deliberately got itself into this situation in anticipation of the federal governments bailing it out. i can believe that mayor beame and mayor lindsay and the city council. back to mayor wagner. that these mayors and city councils of the city of new york deliberately got themselves in this financial crisis and expected that the federal government would come in and bail them out. i just can believe that. i only say that because. getting back to oklahoma. it could happen in a city in oklahoma. through mismanagement. i am sure that oklahoma is-
. all across the nation some of our most precious and beautiful land is being threatened by relentless development. and massachusetts is exception. whether it be in the berkshires. the connecticut river valley. or on cape cod. development is on the increase. but here has this increase been quite as acute as on the lovely islands of marthas vineyard. nantucket. and the elizabeth islands. created nearly 50.000 years ago in the wake of giant glaciers. the nantucket sound islands form veritable jewels off our southeastern coast. like so many coastal islands. they are home to a relatively small permanent population only to have that population swell dramatically with the coming of summer. on marthas vineyard alone. the 6.000 yearround residents find their ranks inflated to nearly 50.000 at the peak of the summer months. yet as happens in too many similar summer retreats. the sheer numbers of summer residents and visitors pose a grave threat to the very things they come to discover: the islands natural beauty. serenity. and fragile ecology. to accommodate. as well as to encourage. the burgeoning summer visitors. the islands have been subjected to a tremendous development by developers who possess sense of place. only. in too many cases. a sense of profit. tract after tract of land has been devoured to accommodate more and more people. last year. the senate wisely passed the nantucket sound islands trust legislation introduced by senator kennedy and myself. this proposal. which was unfortunately never reported out of the house interior committee. represents a fundamental part of a coherent federal. state. and local response to the readily identifiable threats posed by overdevelopment. the local citizenry has been untiring in its efforts to come to grips with this threat. so. too. has the commonwealth of massachusetts. indeed the state passed a very important land use measure which opened the door for even more citizen participation in the future planning of marthas vineyard. it is clear. to all of us. that the process of protecting and preserving these lovely islands is a task too large for even the combined resources of our state and local governments. a federal presence is needed. for only through a true partnership of federal. state. and local participation will islanders really possess the means to preserve and protect their islands. critics of the legislation have argued that the federal bill is hing more than a federal land use plan. but the truth is that the bill does  establish any such land use planning. rather. it maximizes local control of development decisions. the islands communities have the right to propose as well as to oversee all the details of any and all preservation and protection plans. the role of the federal government is simply to certify that planning goals. and their implementation are being conducted in the national interest as spelled out in the legislation. all initiative and all responsibility for engaging the federal. state. and local governments in carrying out the plans lie only with the island residents. in short. the federal bill is hing more than an effort to help the local citizenry help themselves. this legislation is by means perfect. but it is a creative attempt to fuse federal. state. and local governments in a way that genuinely serves the public interest in these areas of such overwhelming scenic and ecological interest.  only will it help islanders preserve and protect the nantucket sound islands. but it will help citizens in other areas just in massachusetts but throughout the nation. to develop effective limits to the burgeoning growth that threatens both the natural beauty and fragile ecology of so many of our scenic natural areas. i share senator kennedys pleasure that the distinguished chairman of the interior committee has assured us of prompt consideration of this measure so that our colleagues in the house may take it up promptly and give to the nation the legacy of these lovely islands in their full beauty. by mr. kennedy (for himself and mr. brooke):
 i should be the last to object to the senators amendment. in fact. the senator has already said it is identical with a portion of the amendment which i introduced. however. it only covers one part. and i certainly am interested  only in the purpose of the senators amendment. but i am also interested in assisting rural cooperatives. municipal and other regulated utilities. and gas utilities. and i am also interested in helping pucs as well. all of those. of course. would be covered under my amendment. so strongly do i feel about it that if i do get an adverse ruling on germaneness from the chair. it is my intent to appeal that ruling of the chair and have a vote on that. so it would incorporate what the senator is trying to do by his amendment. i can certainly understand in his effort to salvage a part of it. since he feels the rest of it is going to fall. but i would prefer to have the senator stand with me and fight on the amendment itself even on an appeal from the ruling of the chair if it is adverse. so that we could include assistance for rural cooperatives. and municipal and other regulated. and gas utilities. and pucs. as well.
. i certainly understand and respect the concern of the distinguished senator from new hampshire. i shall  repeat what i said previously. but i hope that i have. in some degree. allayed his fears. i assure him that i am  concerned with having federal regulation of the state utilities. that is far from what i want. i want to be sure that the states are able to carry out their responsibilities. i find that rural cooperatives and municipal and other regulated utilities and gas utilities are just  covered and that is just  the case. i hope that the senate will recognize that this is  an attempt at federal regulation.
. i can think of more pressing matter for the united states than the preservation of our ties with the other democracies of the world. open governments and free societies are far too few in number. greece. where the concept of democratic rule has much of its origins. is today a functioning democracy. even through a long dark night of authoritarianism its people held close their desire for freedom. and. once having restored it in their land. they have guarded it jealously. the government they have  returned to office is unequivocal in its allegiance to the ideals of democracy. premier karamanlis and his government will continue to serve the greek people well. as they do so. i have doubts that the bonds between the united states and greece will be strengthened. that is a mutual goal we share with the government of greece.
. the necessity for this bill arises from conditions existing last year when daylightsaving time in the district of columbia ended on the last sunday of september while other large communities in the country. particularly in the east and parts of the midwest continued on daylightsaving time to the last sunday of october. the resulting confusion and anance were obvious to everyone directly concerned. it is significant that during the 2 days of hearings by the committee one from the district opposed the bill while there was unanimous support from all who took the opportunity of testifying. had it  been for the technical difficulties existing in 1953. when congress gave the board of commissioners of the district the authority to establish daylightsaving time each year. there can be doubt but that congress would have extended that authority at least through october of each year. since we are this aftern using time to act as a city council for the district. there is sound reason why the bill should  be passed. sometime congress may turn over such municipal functions to a municipal agency and devote the time. energy and expense involved to other matters more clearly in the interest of the nation as a whole. however. i must concede that some of the events of this past year have  increased that possibility in the immediate future and that some of the advocates of home rule for the distict have  contributed significantly of late to that cause. some. soul searching. particularly by a few who have paid lipservice to that objective. seems to be in order.
may i call the attention of the senator from georgia to the experience along this line of the state of ohio during the past 2 or 3 years. there had been a retirement system in effect for some time for state employees. by recent enactment it was made compulsory and applied to municipal employees. when it was brought into effect as applying to municipal employees precisely this method was adopted. municipal employees then in service had  expected to be included when they went into the service and had  been counting on a pension at all. nevertheless. realizing the fairness of doing so. they were put on the same basis as state employees. on condition that they pay the back premiums for such number of years of their service as they desired. back to the date when the state employees began to pay under their act. therefore the same principle applied here that was applied there. municipal employees did  have to pay the back premiums unless they wished to. but it was intended to put them on the same basis as state employees and to give them permission to pay as far back as they wished. in order that they might be placed on the same basis as state employees.
there is plenty of testimony to the effect that in the last election he was supported by mayor hague. and gover edison said that in the administration of his office he was  responsible or beholden to anybody.
 the slightest implication. the charges relating to judge meaney were limited entirely to the conduct of the bank liquidation. receiving the additional fee. and the series of resignations to which i have referred. this quotation from the 1937 hague litigation is related only because judge meaney is the candidate of mayor hague. these quotations indicate the policy of mayor hague.
i think it can be found in scores of places in the record. it certainly is  denied. witnesses. whether they were for or against him. have  questioned the fact that he is supported by mayor hague. i do  think anyone has denied it anywhere along the line at any point. it has been stated many times. does the senator deny it.
let me say that before the senator entered the chamber i had reviewed the career of judge meaney up to 1939. and had pointed out that at time did the record show any criticism whatever. or indicate that there was any criticism. the confirmation of the state senate was indicative of that. the only criticism in the record is as to his conduct of the liquidation. his acceptance of the additional fee. and the series of resignations. which are presented primarily as a set of circumstances. in addition to the many implications in the record that meaney is the candidate of mayor hague. the gover of new jersey is cited as a responsible witness on that precise point.
in reply to the senators question. i should say that at this time for the president to inate and the senate to confirm anyone who was recognized in new jersey as a candidate of mayor hague would be a great mistake.
i desire to emphasize that point because i think it is of the greatest importance. as i said in the beginning. and as i shall say in the conclusion. there are two issues. one is the individual himself. and the other is. will the confirmation of this ination increase the faith and confidence of the people of the united states. and particularly the people of the district of new jersey. in the federal courts. in the light of the controversy which exists at this time regarding mayor hague and one of his inees. i do  believe that their confidence will be increased if this ination is confirmed.
in response to that line of reasoning. let me ask if the senator does  realize that in new jersey there are a great many persons who suspect and feel. whether rightly or wrongly. that if the next link is put on this chain. and if support of the inee comes from mayor hague. even though the judge may do 100 percent right all the way through. if they have a case before him they will feel that in deciding it he did  do right.
i cited the gover of new jersey as being a witness to that fact. he said so. there are other witnesses who say so. some deny it. mayor hague did  testify. we have been discussing the case for 2 days. and i have  heard it officially denied by any senator.
that is precisely the argument on the financial basis. any taxation on income from municipal bonds would require that a higher rate of interest be paid. and that added cost would be borne by the municipal taxpayer. who is the small taxpayer.
i should like to point out to the senator. if the matter has  already been called to his attention. that 2 days ago the mayor of boston. mr. tobin. was in washington testifying before the oil shortage committee. and he pointed out the relationship of the strike to the oil shortage situation. by saying that he already had under way the conversion of a number of public buildings to the use of anthracite coal. but because of the strike he had ordered those conversions to stop. and therefore he was left in the position of being unable to meet a situation which otherwise would have been met. of course. that condition will spread rapidly from the city of boston to other places if the strike continues longer.
it does. ial candidates who have been dakota did  intend to pervert my prominent in large states. it seems to argument. me that there is a very good reason why mr. mundt.  just to extend it that should be so. it is because the ex- to its logical conclusion. perience of being gover. say. of new mr. case of new jersey. and to york or of any other large state. or the twist it a little. too. i am  suggesting experience of being mayor of a large city. that a man is a better man because he is the very kind of experience that quali- comes from a large city. or that he is a fies a man for the highest office in the better man merely because he comes from land. a large city rather than from a small
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the mayor and council of the borough of south plainfield. n.j.. concerning the possible discontinuance or major curtailment of passenger service by the lehigh valley railroad.
. our new jersey u.s. attorneys office has been hoed by the selection of jonathan l. goldstein. chief assistant u.s. attorney. as one of 10 outstanding federal employees in the nation. mr. goldstein has earned a welldeserved reputation for his legal competence. his dedication and his untiring work. most recently he was in charge of a successful suit to enjoin permanently municipal dumping of accumulated sludge in nearby waters of the atlantic. the suit is the first application of the federal refuse act of 1899 to municipalities. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article from the starledger of newark. n.j.. which outlines mr. goldsteins background and accomplishments.
congress has already provided that a state may by adopting coastal zones regulate the land side development of this zone and i think. . it is the very least that we ought to do to permit states to have that period in which to work out the very difficult problem that the development of zoning legislation involves because of all the varied interests that exist in this important area. so i fully support the effort of the senator and i would only say this. that if he succeeds in his amendment. as i hope he will. i would like to add one step further. but i will  embarrass him or the chances for his amendment because mine will have to stand on its own feet. i fully support the senator and thank him as a representative of one coastal state to aher for the very intelligent. moderate action he has proposed.
. i commend the distinguished chairman of the committee on energy and natural resources. senator jackson. and the ranking republican member of the committee. the distinguished senator from wyoming. senator hawsen. as well as the distinguished chairman of the parks and recreation subcommittee. senator abourezk. for their work on this bill. i strongly support the bill and particularly the sections dealing with wild and scenic river status for the delaware river and the provision for protection to a unique area of my state. the new jersey pinelands. the provision relating to the pinelands is the result of extremely helpful cooperation by a large number of persons on a proposal that senator williams and i developed. we are pleased by the broad support that this provision has received and we believe it deserves the support of the entire senate. this is a vital and significant proposal. it is needed immediately to provide protection for a unique and beautiful area of my state kn as the new jersey pinelands. an area that has been described as "among the most outstanding natural areas in the country. the pinelands. the largest undeveloped stretch of land on the eastern seaboard. is threatened by encroaching development. in one 50 square mile area of the pinelands. for example. there have been egh approvals given for construction of new dwellings to double the population of the area in a span of 5 years. this development is taking place whenever and wherever land becomes available. without regard to planning for public services or the protection of natural resources. while that problem is  unique to the pinelands. it is intensified by the fragile nature of the area and increasing pressures caused by such things as the introduction of casigambling at atlantic city. which borders on the pinelands. the pinelands are located in the southern half of new jersey between the famous seaside resorts and the new jersey turnpike. it is a subdued. restful area with low shrubs and dwarfed pines and oaks growing in a highly porous soil that absorbs 90 percent of the rain that falls in the area. the porous soil has created an aquifer that stores some 17.7 trillion gallons of water. an amount equal to 10 years of rainfall or the equivalent of a lake 2.000 square miles in area and 37 feet deep. because of the porous soil and the shallow depth of the aquifer. this giant under ground reservoir could easily be polluted if intensive development took place in the area. the pinelands meets the criteria for a national park or a national recreation area but it is too expansive and too complex to be administered in the traditional manner which requires direct public acquisition and exclusive federal management. what is needed. and what our proposal provides. is a new approach that combines the capabilities and resources of the local. state and federal governments and the private sector for protection of this area. we want to make sure the interests of all these sectors are represented in the development of a management plan for the area. as i said. we believe our proposal is needed immediately to provide protection for new jerseys pinelands. but we also believe it is an important proposal for other parts of the nation. there are numerous areas in the country that. like the pinelands. meet the criteria to be classified as national parks or national recreation areas but for various reasons are  suited to be administered in the traditional manner. at present we have accepted policy for dealing with these areas. through the development of a management plan for the pinelands. under the provisions of our proposal. we are seeking to demonstrate how various levels of government can work together and with the private sector to protect outstanding natural and cultural areas throughout the country for which traditional methods of protection are inappropriate. / we are seeking to demonstrate a means by which federal interests in an expansive area of unique ecological value can be protected without the need for direct federal ownership of the whole area. we are seeking to demonstrate a means by which state interests can be protected without preempting local and private interests or being preempted by federal interests. we are seeking to demonstrate a means by which various local units of government can cooperate with each other and with the federal and state governments to provide protection to an area that extends beyond local boundaries. and we are seeking to demonstrate a means by which private interests. such as agriculture and recreation. can be carried on in harmony with the preservation of ecological. cultural. scenic and historic values. we believe development of a management plan for new jerseys pinelands can be of significant value to the future development of a national policy for protecting areas for which there is appropriate system of protection at this time. to accomplish these purposes. our proposal calls for congress to designate approximately 1 million acres in new jersey as the "pinelands reserve" and to authorize $26 million as the federal share of developing a management plan and acquiring land in the pinelands. of that amount $23 million would be used for acquisition of critical land areas that are in immediate danger of being developed in a manner that would be significantly adverse to the protection of the pinelands. thesi federal funds would be matched. on a basis of 75percent federal and 25percent state. by state funds. as would the funds for development of the management plan. a joint federalstatelocal agency. which will include representatives of private interests. will be established by the gover of new jersey to draw up a comprehensive plan for the area. it is our intent and expectation that all those who serve on the planning agency will be dedicated to the protection of the values of the pinelands. during development of the plan. the agency would provide for maximum public and local participation. through public hearings and consultation with local officials and a citizens advisory body. the comprehensive plan will include a resource assessment which determines the amount of development and other activity that the ecosystem can sustain. it also will include a map showing areas of critical ecological importance and areas of scenic. open space. cultural and recreational significance and a separate map showing land use capability. the plan also will include a comprehensive statement of policies for land use management which details the application of a variety of land and water management techniques such as zoning. development and use standards. conservation easements and other interests in land. land use regulations. public access agreements. and fee acquisition. it must recognize existing ecoic activities within the area and provide for their protection and enhancement. in addition. there must be a plan for coordination and consistency of local. state and federal programs and policies. a financial plan. a program for maximum local government and public participation in the management of the area. and a program for state and local implementation of the plan. including potential penalties for failure to implement the plan. new jersey will submit the complete management plan to the secretary within 18 months. with the provision for extensions if the plan is found to be unacceptable when first submitted. all federal assistance will be terminated and reimbursement of federal funds may be sought if an acceptable plan is  approved within 3 years. once the plan is approved by the secretary. it will be submitted to congress for review. we hope that our proposal will become a model for handling of areas similar to the pinelands in the future.
. i rise in opposition to the colmer amendment and in opposition to the mundt substitute. i see particular good or harm to be gained out of the smith amendment first proposed. let us  forget that this is the first fulldress foreignpolicy debate in this house. the world is watching this debate. parties and members will be weighed by people in every district in our country. and by the people of the world. as to whether they are isolationists or men who understand what is happening in the new world. by how they vote here when the yeas and nays are called on the vote that has already gone through on the $200.000.000 proposal. and the vote that is to come on the whole bill. let us try to lift the scales from the eyes of people who will  see. those who are doing what they are in trying to kill this bill are playing directly into the* hands of russia. we had it demonstrated last night. general marshall said that premier stalin told him that what he wants is delaythat there is hurry about settling europes problems. he wants europe. which is hungry and destitute. to get help from america. to get state of security and order. the u. s. s. r. for example is absolutely opposed to any action to take care of the refugees and dps. they say. send them back to the countries they came from. even to those countries where they are sure to be persecuted for their political opinions. why. because settlementdespair. discord. miseryall those things play into the hands of a communism which promise relief to such unfortunates. communism is a religion for the desperate. if you want it. defeat this bill.
. i have today introduced the federal youth assistance act of 1954 to provide $50 million for federal aid to state. municipal. and community youth projects. the bill seeks to coordinate on a matching basis a federal government program with the youth programs initiated in the many states and municipalities in which youth commissions have been established. federal funds would also be made available to private. profit agencies operating under the supervision of state and municipal youth commissions. the whole basis for the bill is to aid youth work on the community level. this is an area. i believe. in which the community must take the lead while the federal government. the states. and the municipalities help supply the means. the department of health. education. and welfare. which is charged with the administration of the program outlined in this bill. would cooperate with state youth or juvenile committees or commissions. such as  exist in arkansas. california. colorado. connecticut. kansas. louisiana. michigan. minnesota. mississippi. th dakota. oklahoma. oregon. washington. wisconsin. and wyoming. and city committees or commissions in baltimore. kansas city. mo.. milwaukee. and new york. it is expected that were this bill to become law these cooperating agencies would be established in every state and major city. the large number of rejections for the armed services of youth for physical and mental reasons and the serious incursions of crime. narcotics addiction. and other moral defects among our young people emphasize the need for this legislation. more than 1 million of our 43 million boys and girls under 18 come to the attention of the police in one way or aher each year. we spend over $25 billion annually in this country to fight crimemy bill calls for an expenditure of twotenths of 1 percent of that amount to save the blight upon the lives of young people because of it. this measure conforms to the statement made by secretary of health. education. and welfare oveta culp hobby. in her testimony before the senate judiciary subcommittee investigating juvenile delinquency. that: "many things that must be done in the treatment and prevention of delinquency can best be done when states and the nation work with communities." it also conforms to the recommendations of the midcentury white house conference on children and youth. held in december 1950. which dealt with the problems of personal and family life for our youth under conditions of defense mobilization. our struggle against communism. the fight against inflation. and the ability of youth to adjust morally and spiritually to the machine age. it stems from the revelations on the problems of youth before the senate judiciary subcommittee investigating juvenile delinquency. my bill seeks to afford the facilities for training which youth must have to deal with these vast problems. the federal youth assistance act of 1954 requires state youth programs to be entitled to federal support to provide. in addition to state or municipal supervision and matching funds. educational facilities. psychiatric health service. vocational training projects. actual employment projects. citizenship orientation courses. and support for training social care and group workers and practitioners where required.
the senator from new york ks of such facts or law within the points made by the senator from pennsylvania. fallacy  1 is that this is a federal project. which it definitely is . it involves expense on the part of the federal government. but. very importantly. there is required legislation which can be complied with by the laws of the state of new york. which is aher thing our colleagues must  overlook. it is only the authority of the state of new york that must be complied with. i will detail why it would be violated were we to adopt the amendments being proposed. the second fallacy is this: there is definition in the law to the effect that the only way the public can get the benefit of the power is through the reas and the municipal systems. it is assumed in the whole argument that the public is  benefited unless the power moves through an rea or a municipal system. as a matter of fact. only 5 percent of the power generated in my state moves through an rea or municipal system. indeed. only a fraction of the power generated in ohio or pennsylvania is subject to the same kind of sale. but what is extremely important is. does the public get the benefit of the generation of power at one of these sites. under the evidence submitted. the people of new york state. rural and domestic consumers. will get all the benefit. power does  have to go through an rea or a municipal system for the people to get all the benefit. new york law provides that the power will go to rural and domestic consumers under strictly limited prices. determined by. the power authority. in accordance with the laws of the state. which passes on to those persons the complete and full benefits of all the ecoies which are realized in the generation of power. this is the essence of it: despite the fact that in new york state only 5 percent of the power moves through rea and municipal systems. the people will get the direct benefit of all the power which results from niagara generation which is  used for commercial or industrial purposes. or to discharge contractual obligations. and that amounts to over 400.000 kilowatts a year. i should like to call attention to aher point which i think is of very great importance. to what does my colleague from pennsylvania refer when he talks about 150 miles and 200 miles. we are  inexperienced in the business. we are  talking in the air. again we are talking about facts. we have a project. which is the st. lawrence project. authorized by the federal power commission. it needed congressional authorization. it needed a license. it had treaty complications. so we did  have to come to congress. our experience demonstrates that the transmission distance is about 150 miles. i k my colleague will forgive me for this. i am  trying to be too critical of him. but the distance from the generation of niagara to the outermost point. brattleboro is  200 miles. but about 185 miles.
the states of ohio and pennsylvania and cooperatives and municipal systems do  have to take any of this power. what i was talking about was that in order to sell the bonds it is necessary to have a basic number of commitments and contracts.
. we are proceeding. in a sense. as trustees. the senator from new jersey and i. as lawyers. have attempted to draft language in an effort to help the senate. we do  want to appear in the position of advocates. which is the province of the senator from massachusetts and my senior colleague from new york.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the diocesan union of holy name societies of the diocese of rockville centre. long island. n. y.. relating to the execution of general maleter and premier nagy.
i thank my colleague. that is absolutely so. willy brandt. governing mayor of the city of west berlin. said in response to the russian plan as soon as it was annced: it is the recognizable goal of communist policy to make the whole of berlin part of the socalled german democratic republic. amount of talking can divert attention from this. this is the summation of the point which represents the potent danger. indeed the unacceptable hazard. of negotiations between the east and west german governments about berlin is the fact that it will be taken without question as a signal in west germany that this is the end of the position of the western allies with respect to german unification. that the western position upon the whole subject of germany is crumbling and will likely be abandoned. and that west germany had better move to make the best deal it can with the soviet unions puppets in east germany before it is completely left at the postabandoned. the victim. with negotiating power whatever. we need  guess about this. the whole attitude of the west german government and the government of west berlin confirms for us the dreadful danger in which they consider themselves to be and the urgent need. therefore. for maintaining steadfastly the policy upon which we have embarked. willy brandt. of course. is a leading member of the social democratic party. the spd. which is the primary miity party in the german bundestag. chancellor adenauer is the leader of the christian democratic party. these are the two major parties in west germany. even our official policy  is  an inflexible policy. the secretary of state has already ed that free elections may  necessarily be the first step toward german reunification. though they certainly should be the last step. and that free elections are  the only way in which to start the ball rolling.
. i should like to associate myself with the remarks made by my distinguished colleague from new york. the present occupant of the chair . in urging americans of sicilian extraction to communicate with their friends and relatives in italy with respect to the pending election in sicily. my colleague has brought to our attention a very important event. with which we in new york have some familiarity. mayor la guardia. as my colleague ed. was a great leader in the fight in 1948 which resulted in a very material change. we all feel. of sentiment in italy. i do  consider this to be interference in the affairs of aher country. this is peopletopeople communication. an ideological and evangelical kind of communication. urging others to do as we do and also urging others to have the objective view which we have on the grimness of the struggle between communism and freedom. i think we have a right to feel that if communism should win in sicily it would just be a base of operations. a sort of achilles heel for an attack upon the italian boot. i deeply believe. since we have a great population of italian extraction in new york. this is a particular message to the people of new york. i hope very much others of our colleagues will join with us in similarly urging their constituents who may have friends and relatives in sicily to take a good. hard look at the conditions there.  only in terms of what they may feel about the local situation but also in terms of the grim struggle in which the whole world is engaged and in which the people of the united states have such a burning interest. i wish to congratulate my colleague. and also the hearst newspapers for urging a great letterwriting and coupon campaign on this subject. for their enterprise and initiative. i emphasize. from my own experience in the foreign policy field. that this does  represent interference in any official or government way with the affairs of aher country. this represents what we call peopletopeople communication. we have a right to participate in it. we have a right to feel that the people of sicily or of italy. if they want to say anything to the people of the united states of whom they are relatives and friends. are welcome to do so. the free world  only guarantees freedom of elections. but also guarantees freedom of communication.
while we are talking about ohio mayors. i wish to state that i hold in my hand a telegram which i have received from the mayor of cleve. land. ohio. a. j. celebrezze. it may be a strange paradox that my colleague. the senator from ohio. has cited the views of the republican mayor of a small ohio city. and i am citing the views of the democratic mayor of one of the largest cities in ohio. mayor celebrezzes telegram reads as follows: washington. d.c.. july 23. 1959.
. later this week i shall have the ho of introducing the appropriate joint resolution for the purpose of having a worlds fair in new york in 1964. at the same time that a companion joint resolution will be introduced in the other body. in that connection. i think the members of the senate should k all about the details of what we plan to be an even improved version of the worlds fair which was held in new york in 1939 and 1940. therefore. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the detailed news story on this subject from yesterdays new york herald tribune which includes. in part. the statement of the mayor of the city of new york.
 that there is hing to fear from a visit by premier khrushchev during the steel strike. and that in fact he would see for himself that american workers are freemen having the right to strike. we do believe that all would agree that it would be better still if he could see our steel mills in operation. for. at capacity our steel mills will produce a total daily output typically 75 percent higher than the steel industry in the u.s.s.r.. indeed 36 percent of the steel production of the whole world. gaging mr. khrushchev and what will impress him the most we believe it will be blast furnaces turning out the steel which back up americas ideals with its productive power.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the board of trustees of the village of floral park. n.y.. relating to the removal of the taxexemption privilege for municipal bonds.
. this is obviously a political shot on the eve of premier khrushchevs coming to the united states. but be that as it may. we should  allow ourselves to be dazzled by these individual feats of technical proficiency. we should admire and applaud them. but we should  lose our perspective in respect of them. the fact is that the soviet union under communism is a country where there is still very grave repression of human liberty and the human spirit and religion. as these articles show. and where the ecoic system has yet to prove itself in terms of the cruel toll which it takes out of the backs  only of the russian people but of the people whom the russians hold in subjection. and in the tremendous menace to the peace and security of the world. which is faced with aggressive dictatorship of this character. so far only four of these articles have appeared. there will be eight in all. in view of the fact that the senate may  be in session so that they may be inserted. i shall endeavor to complete the series if it can be done under the rules. i ask unanimous consent that there be made a part of my remarks the following articles from the new york times:  1: "his [khrushchevs] 5year leadership has wrought profound changes in soviet scene."  2: "collective leadership is replaced by premiers own undisputed rule."  3: "country is longer ruled by fear. but liberalism raises new problems."  4: "his overture to u.s. is attributed to fear of chinas atomic potential."  5: "antisemitism and religious upsurge are said to baffle the soviet regime."
. the interesting thing is how we sometimes debate in a vacuum. because they have just had a hot primary election for gover in louisiana between mayor delesseps morrison of new orleans. and a man named jim davis. this primary took place in one of the largest and most important states of the union. and the primary election was decided in favor of mr. davis after  only the originally primary election. but after a ruf primary election. does anyone in this chamber or in the united states doubt that mr. davis will be elected gover of louisiana.. will many citizens of louisiana trouble to go to the polls and vote in the general election. probably . if history continues in the future as it has in the past. as it undoubtedly will. who is going to put up money for a candidate in opposition. everyone ks the election has already been decided. so it would be a mockery to pass this bill to control contributions to campaigns in the general elections which is absolutely meaningless to the people of the state of louisana and to other states of the union. indeed. i think if my colleague from missouri did  proposed this amendment. he would be derelict in his duty. he would be misleading. he would be advocating a clean elections bill which was applicable to only certain sections of the country. i k him too well and love him too much to believe anything like that from him.
 i shall qualify myself by stating that  only have i been very much interested in this problem ever since i was a member of the house of representatives. but when i was attorney general of new york we established a temporary state commission on youth and delinquency. which i had caused to be organized. and which issued a report which. in my opinion. is a landmark on this subject. i shall speak about the subject in my own time later. however. because i have such great regard and affection for the able senator from missouri and for his services in this field. and because i had the ho to appear before the subcommittee at the hearing which he conducted. i should like to ask him a question. the argument will be made during the debate that this is  a problem in which the nation should intervene. that this is a state problem. that it is a municipal problem. but that it is  a field in which we should pass federal legislation. i should like to ask the senator from missouri whether. based upon all his experience. he does  agree with me that the significance of this proposed legislation is that the problem is  only national. but is international. it is national because it is getting beyond the capability of the states and municipalities to handle. and international because the report that we can control our own children is giving our country a bad name throughout the world. it is as simple as that. it is a national problem. and i am perfectly willing to debate it upon that basis. the nation ought to take a hand in solving the problem. i should like to ask the distinguished senator from missouri for his view on that point.
. chancellor adenauer who has just visited us has left us with a challenging proposal in preparation for the eastwest summit meeting scheduled to begin may 16 which ought to have the prompt and urgent attention of our state department. he suggested a "free plebiscite" in the three zones of the western powers in berlin carried through before the eastwest summit meeting asking berliners to vote whether they want the present status of berlin to remain or whether they want that status to be changed. it is properly pointed out that to govern with the consent of the governed this plebiscite is most advisable. also. to be sure that the people of west berlin are determined to resist pressures which the east german regime and its soviet sponsors can put upon them if chairman khrushchev determines that this is the next step. though berlins voters it is true in the 1958 municipal elections gave less than 2 percent of their vote to the communists this was before the definitive soviet proposals on making berlin a "free city" came out in detailed negotiations together with united states. british. and french counterproposals of the geneva foreign ministers conference in may 1959. it is these proposals and in the ensuing international pressures and negotiations upon which the people of west berlin should have their say. i support this proposal of chancellor adenauer. it is widely recognized in the united states. perhaps more widely recognized and understood than any other foreign policy question. that the fate of berlin is intimately linked with the continuance of germany as a dynamic part of an integrated western europe with bright prospects for a continuing development of this integration most helpful to the free worlds cause. also that berlin is the symbol to the communist enslaved nations of eastern and southern europe of the determination of the free world that they too shall one day have their opportunity to be free again. finally it is the most advanced showcase of the free world facing toward the communist bloc and makes possible the constant comparison between the drab grimness of communist living and the security. dynamism and interest of free world living. because of its critical im- ( portance to the free world. chancellor i adenauers suggestion deserves high con- 1 sideration and i urge that our government enter into the necessary negotiations with the other two powers concerned. the united kingdom and france. and with the west berlin government to bring about this plebiscite in time for the may summit meeting.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted at the 12th biennial international convention of the american federation of state. county and municipal employees. at washington. d.c.. relating to the transfer of freedmens hospital.
. we found that the great cause of juvenile delinquency and youth crime. in a sociological sense. differing from what had been kn before. was the broken familythe broken family being far more responsible today for such conditions than slum living. the sociologists who worked for us found that juvenile delinquency occurs on the fanciest streets in town. that something new had come into the picture. that accounts for the broken homes picture. we can develop legislation to rectify that condition. however. we can subsidize some of the organizations whose purpose is to assist those who come from broken homes. that is what i am talking about in terms of state and municipal projects. that is the proposal i made before our subcommittee and the full committee. that is the fundamental problem which we face. the states are  dealing with their problem in a practical way. the responsibility in this area. because it constitutes a national emergency. and a very serious one. is one which belongs to the federal government. and we are . in this bill. meeting it. certainly we are  meeting it adequately. the missing link is the failure to aid the municipal programs. which is the traditional way in which the federal government has stimulated action of this nature. why are we reduced to this pass. it is  the fault of the senator from pennsylvania any more than it is the fault of the chairman or any other member of the committee. the fact is that the senate last year passed a bill almost exactly the same as the pending bill. it went to the house. and there it got absolutely here. the desire. therefore. is to send a measure to the house again. as expeditiously as possible. with the least problem in the senate. i have little doubt that if i should offer my amendment. the senate would debate it. and the whole subject would be opened up de o. i shall  offer my amendment. then. in the hope that by subordinating the views each of us so strongly holds. we might. in the hope of passing the bill. succeed in having the house also pass the bill and at least make a start in this field.
said he felt the party had a number of excellent candidates for mayor. he said he would do what he could to work for a republican victory. the senator reiterated that he felt the great national issues of peace and war. prosperity and depression. of justice. and civil liberties were as critical to the people of new york as its city government. he had said he believes he can be of greater service to the people in the senate than in city hall. text of javrrs statement i have today met with the county chairmen of the five counties in the city at their request. with the gover and  l. judson morhouse. and have asked them to remove my name from consideration as a candidate for the mayoralty. it will be recalled that i made it clear some time ago that i did  wish to be considered for the mayoralty race. but friends and political associates for whom i have the highest regard recently urged me to reconsider. out of respect for them i gave renewed consideration to the possibility of my running for mayor and advised the leaders today that i adhere to the view which i had expressed some time ago. i feel that my party has a number of excellent candidates to offer to the people for this very high office. our city is badly governed and has suffered seriously as a result as a good community in which to live and work. the greatest city on earth should be the greatest in every way in the excellence of relationships between people of all faiths. races and color who live here. in a concept of metropolitan government congenial to its majesty and power. in being a center of the arts. culture. education and sciences. as a setting for the capital of the worldthe united nationsand as a decent home and business community of which every new yorker should be proud. in the coming campaign. consistent with my duties in the senate. i shall do everything humanly possible in the choice of candidates and in the waging of the campaign to realize these opportunities for my native city. as i have stated before. i feel that the great issues of peace and war. of prosperity and depression. of justice and civil rights and civil liberties which are being fought out in the congress  only for ourselves in new york but for everybody in the united states and indeed in the whole free world are as critical to the people of new york city as our own municipal government. i am thoroughly engaged in this activity. hope very much the people will see fit to continue me in it. and will do my utmost as always to justify their confidence.
this house. an outstanding example of early dutch architecture. was built in 1661 by john bowne who played an historic role in the early fight for religious freedom in the 1iew world. in such times as these. when we are so arduously seeking tolerance on many frontiers. it is only fitting that this house. which symbolizes john bownes rened fight for the establishment of religious tolerance be designated as a national shrine so that all who look upon it will remember the great concept of religious liberty it symbolizes. it is significant to point out that the roots of religious freedom in america were established in flushing over a hundred years before our bill of rights. in 1657 the people of flushing signed the flushing remonstrance which attacked the religious intolerance of gov. peter stuyvesant. these brave people were then thrown in jail by the government. it was  until 1664 when john bowne successfully pleaded the case for religious freedom that the hopes of the remonstrance actually came to full bloom. in this house john bowne was arrested for defying the govers edict that forbade freedom by allowing quakers to worship there. john bowne was jailed and exiled for this offense. after several years away from his family and having successfully pleaded his cause before the authorities in holland. he returned to his home. this. therefore. marked the establishment of the principle of true freedom as embodied a century later in the first article of the bill of rights. a dedicated group of citizens recognizing the tremendous significance of this historic site organized the bowne house historical society in 1945. while significant recognition has come to the house and it has long been considered a national shrine of religious freedom. this has all been uficial. it has still to be officially designated by our government as a national shrine. that is the objective of the goal senator keating and i have been seeking through the department of the interior which approves such designations. the department has advised us that bowne house is included as one of the many sites being considered in its national survey but that the report will  be completed until 1964. there is considerable basis to urge separate and earlier action in this instance. it is still  certain that the report will be ready by late 1964. and. even if it does make a favorable recommendation regarding bowne house it may prove to be too late to properly plan the 300th anniversary of john bownes success gaining religious liberty from holland for the colonists in the new world. aher important reason for urging early action is the fact that the new york worlds fair will open in april of 1964 and hundreds of thousands of people. even millions from all over the world will visit the fair site in flushing meadows only a short distance from the bowne house. most considerations for national shrine recognition are based on the sites architectural values. this house unquestionably qualifies under this standard. but. our appeal for recognition is based on even broader reasonings. its religious significance. i believe. gives it -a unique distinction. surely worthy of particular consideration. * o . i trust the resolution. which was prepared with the cooperation of the board of trustees of the bowne house historical society. will win quick committee and floor approval. the full text follows: whereas by the flushing remonstrances of 1657. the freeholders of flushing in defiance of measures of religious persecution undertaken by gov. peter stuyvesant. insisted on the right to have and enjoy liberty of conscience and to welcome in their homes "any sons of adam who come in love among us." and whereas bowne house was constructed in 1661 from timbers hand hewn by john bowne who moved to flushing in his determination to find a community and a home where he could worship god according to his convictions. and whereas despite the promise of religious liberty originally contained in the charter of the town of flushing. john bowne -was arrested in 1662 and fined with a warning to abstain in future from religious meetings of the society of friends. and . whereas he was transported to holland for further sentencing and offered such an eloquent plea for tolerance and liberty of conscience that he was released. the governing body of the province declaring that "the consciences of men. at least. ought to remain free." and whereas the trial and acquittal of john bowne is one of the landmarks of religious freedom in this nation. comparable to the trial of john peter zenger in the history of freedom of the press. one of the stepping stones that led to the drafting of the bill of rights in the u.s. constitution. and whereas bowne house. in which the prescribed religious meetings were held. was acquired by the bowne house historical society in 1945 in celebration of the tercentenary of the community of flushing. dedicated by mayor fiorello la guardia on october 10. 1945. as a national shrine to religious freedom and tolerance. and opened to the public on independence day. 1947. and whereas bowne house today stands with much of its original construction and with contemporary furnishings intact and has been designated in the journal of the american institute of architects as one of the twenty "structures of national importance in new york city which should be preserved at all costs": therefore be it resolved by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the secretary of the interior is hereby directed to provide. with the consent of the bowne house historical society. for appropriate recognition by the federal government of the national historical and architectural significance of the bowne house. flushing. n.y.
madam president. on previous occasions i have called attention to the fact that the president has  hoed in the way i believe he should. and as is wise for him and for the country. his campaign promises with respect to civil rights legislation. therefore. there is something a little sardonic about an article published in the new york times on sunday. january 21. which includes a dispatch from memphis. tenn.. to the effect that an assistant secretary ofstatecarl t. rowan. a negrowas refused service and was asked to leave a restaurant at the memphis municipal airport. and following that dispatch there is a dispatch from washington. d.c.. which states: it was the second time in 2 days that a top negro official of the kennedy administration had been involved in a discrimination controversy. george l. p. weaver. assistant secretary of labor. said yesterday that he had been denied a room at the sha eisenhower. we would have a much better opportunity to come abreast of this problem. in the days ahead i shall press for action on this matter. as i promised to do at the time when the session was concluded last september. by offering. first. a literacy amendmentas i promisedto a bill which i believe will be before the senate very shortly. and i shall do my part in having the congress take actionwhich i consider essentialin regard to this very vital issue.
. i wish to make some observations on the situation in berlin. to which i addressed myself within the last 10 days and on other occasions. press reports show that this is the fourth time that the united states has invited the soviet union to engage in fourpower talks on berlin. if the fate of the previous requests is any precedentand i am sure it isthis request will again be rejected. we have witnessed riots in the streets of berlin. earlier this month. between august 13 and august 21. by crowds in west berlin who were subjected to intolerable provocation by the cruel and brutal killing of two teenagers. under the most barbaric circumstances. who sought to cross the inhuman berlin wall. i have raised my voice against allowing u.s. policy and u.s. commitments of such gravity to be brought into operation by action on the streets of berlin. but i could  agree more with mayor willy brandt when he said: berlin must accuse. berlin must demand. and an end must be put to inhumanity. i certainly do  feel there ought to be riots. though i can understand the provocation that brought them on. and sometimes the realism of an intense and vigorous protest is more than justified. the people of west berlin showed unmistakable nature of their disgust and protest against the intolerable conditions that they are being subjected to by the communist east german regime and by the troops of the soviet union. i think we are  at the point where we must try to do something about this situation. i begin to depreciate the constant reiteration by our government of the fact that the only recourse is to ask for fourpower talks with the russians. the russians obviously do  want to talk right . and they intend to pursue their unilateral course of placing tremendous pressure upon the allied governments and the people of berlin. under this provocation and under these conditions. i again urge that it is high time for the allies to develop a new policy for berlin. by "the allies" i mean the united states. the united kingdom. and france. i believe we must take the leadership there. there are many things we can do. it has been suggested. for example. that west berlin could be incorporated into the german federal republic and. without in any way changing the occupation statutes or arrangements. be brought thereby under the protection of the nato treaty. as well. with the whole people of west germany behind it. because they would have to act in order to take berlin in and make it a state. or land. as it is called there. it has been suggested that a previous situation. in which west germany threatened to cut off trade with east germany. might be successful because east germany urgently needs the trade for the operation of its factories. or that there might be a controlling of the traffic from east germany to west germany over the autobahn. it has also been suggested that the united nations undertake an investigation of the situation in east berlin and west berlin. which might be helpful in revealing to the whole world the intolerable conditions which exist in east berlin. those are some of the actions which could be taken. i urge our government to stop asking the russians to confer. the russians have refused. time and again. to confer. to make such a request again would become a matter demeaning to so great a nation and power as our own. much as we want to avoid a conflictand we do. this apparently is  the way in which to act. we must  consult with our allies in order to determine upon and arrange some new policy in respect to berlin. the pressures of the communists upon the people of west berlin may one day prove so intolerable to them as to cause an incident which can be handled in the way this one obviously was by mayor brandt. according to word i had from gerhardt schmidt. of the city council. apparently discipline was successful in defeating the russian effort to tie up and boycott west berlin. because that effort was broken by the airlift. but this situation can continue forever. therefore. i urge upon our government and the allied governments a new policy. a new approach. which can move unilaterally from us. and in which we can have the initiative. rather than just having the russians come over. which they obviously do  want to do.
. fiorello h. la guardia was one of new yorks most beloved personalities. and certainly one of that citys greatest mayors. although the "little flower of new york" died 16 years ago. his achievements are still very much in evidence in that city. and he is remembered with great affection by millions of people in new york and throughout the country. on september 15. the anniversary of his death. the la guardia memorial association. a group of the "majors" friends. went to woodlawn cemetery. with mrs. la guardia. to reminisce about the days when fiorello was the dominant figure in new york. the memorial address that day was given by reuben a. lazarus. a close friend and longtime associate of mayor la guardia. and i ask unanimous consent that his remarks be printed in the record.
. the city of new york has suffered a very grave loss which is quite apart from the tragedy suffered by mayor robert wagner. jr.. who has lost susan wagner. his wife. susan wagner. whom i have kn for many years. and who was a friend of my wifes and mine. was  only a dear and wonderful human being. but she was. in my judgment. the first lady in the hearts of the people of the city of new york in a very real way. her love for her family and her devotion to her husband were seconded for the people by her deep interest in the cause of bettering the future of the human family. and particularly the conditions of so many of the people who are underprivileged ecoically in health. in society. *or because of prejudices in new york. she was so beloved that one can speak of her in the same way that one would speak of some distinguished public servant. although she was  elected. she was anted by the people of new york. it is with a real sense of sadness and grief that i make this statement to the senate hoing a very fine woman who in her own life typified what the wives of important public men go through. they assume a stature. they take on duties and responsibilities which are closely coordinated with those of their husbands. so that it can almost be said that the people have elected  one to high office but twothe public servant and his wife. that was uniquely true in the case of susan wagner. to whom i pay this tribute. mrs. javits and i extend our deepest sympathy to mayor wagner. he and i on occasions have been political opponents. but he is my friend and i feel that way very deeply in this very sad hour.
. the people of the united states might be dismayed at this ion of a castroite chile. but it is vital that we consider the possibility . rather than after the factif. most unhappily. it should prove to be a fact. certainly. the results of the congressional election in the chilean province of curic6which occurred while i was in santiagohas been interpreted in chilean circles as a dangerous portent. the results in curic6 showed a sharp reversal in the strength of the democratic front coalition which dominated the municipal elections held about a year ago. a comparison between the results of this election and the national municipal elections held in april 1963. shows that in april 1963 the democratic front received 49.5 percent of the vote in curic6 province. while in march 1964 it received 32.5 percent of the vote. by contrast. in april 1963 the socialistcommunist coalition. frap. received 29 percent of the vote. while in march 1964 it received 39.5 percent of the vote. in april 1963 the christian democrats received 21.5 percent of the vote. while in march 1964 they received 28 percent of the vote.
we on the miity side join in welcoming m. gaston defferre. with whom i have just shared the privilege of discussion about the great matters affecting the atlantic community at the socalled bilderberg conference in williamsburg. va.. presided over by prince bernhard. of the netherlands. i had the ho to hear m. defferres views expressed at that conference. as the senator from minnesota has said. m. defferre is a distinguished citizen of france. and an outstanding public official. what i heard about his views and his deep interest in the integrity and the integration of the atlantic community made me understand the reason why he is held in such high esteem. and why he occupies a place of such distinction. so i take great pleasure in joining all senators on the democratic side in welcoming deputy mayor defferre to the senate of the united states.
i feel that in new york we handle our troubles in a little bit different way. but i should like to ask the senator this question: the senator is an excellent lawyer and is familiar with the edwards case involving the arrest of 187 negroes on the grounds of the state legislature of south carolina. it was subsequently found that they had been illegally arrested by a federal court. withstanding they were charged with trespass. the very offense to which the senator is referring. does  the senator feel that provision should be made in respect to mrs. peabody. or in respect to his amendment with respect to state and municipal statutes on this subject which are unconstitutional.
. i am most gratified that the senate has passed s. 1365. legislation to establish a fire island national seashore. for which with senator keating i have fought for years. the senates action today on the bill which we introduced. marks an important step in the establishment of a magnificent natural and recreational area for enjoyment and use by almost 20 percent of the population of the united states located in the area extending from boston to baltimore. and especially of the 11 million people in the new york metropolitan area. the fire island national seashore will be available to almost onethird of this nations population living within a days drive. the passage by the senate of s. 1365 is. to a great degree. the result of the work and support of the local communities in the fire island area whose determination to establish a national seashore has been unbounded. the national seashore would preserve approximately 33 miles of shoreline and about 5.700 acres of land for outdoor recreation purposes. the legislation provides that private property. both improved and unimproved. may be retained by its owner in certain designated communities as long as it is maintained in accordance with approved local zoning requirements. the secretary of the interior is authorized. however. to acquire within such designated communities any beach or waters together with portions of the land adjoining them which he deems necessary for public access. the national seashore will provide ample opportunities for recreation such as swimming. fishing. hunting. clamming. boating. camping. nature studies. and other outdoor activities. figures published by the department of interior show that in 1959 nearly 90 million visits were made to county and municipal beaches in connecticut. new york. and new jersey. these visits were concentrated at public recreation areas whose shoreline represented only 5 percent of the total recreation shoreline in the three states. fire islands shorelines. having great recreational value. thus will provide much needed public recreation opportunities in an area which lacks extensive egh facilities of this kind. the fire island national seashore will. moreover. effectively complement state and county efforts for providing expanded recreation facilities. i am most hopeful that the house of representatives will act quickly on this important legislation and that its enactment. which would provide a major contribution to this nations outdoor recreational capacity. will follow promptly in this session of the congress.
. the reason for my taking the floor today on this subject is twofold: first. having interested myself in the problem because i serve on the committeethe committee on labor and public welfarewhich authorizes the funds from which groups like this one receive support. i felt a particulat responsibility in respect of the subject. second. as it occurs in my own hometown and in the particular area. both in a social sense and in a geographic sense. where i have had long standing. a very deep interest and kledge. i felt that there were two commanding reasons for my looking into the situation. the board of this organization represents the most important of our municipal officials. in a very composite and representative way. in a program of this character in new york city. including the mayor of new york. as well as a cross section of academic leaders. professors. and other distinguished citizens. together with representatives of the local community. i ask unanimous consent that i may include as a part of my remarks a list of the members of the board. with their affiliation.
 has spoken of the fact that it had trained 2.000 outofwork youngsters in the time that agency received federal aid. we have the basic facts and figures that 1.200 young people have been trained since october 1962 with over onehalf having received fulltime jobs. and the others parttime work. and with only 12 percent of the enrollees. those who finished the course.  getting jobs. this is an extraordinary record. indeed a much better record than can be shown in other instances under the manpower and retraining act. the purpose of my laying these facts before the senate is. first. that members of the senate should be aware of the fact that there are procedures going on. under the auspices of the department of justice. the municipal authorities. and the fbi. to see that whatever may be wrong is corrected. by all means. we should  make the great mistake of hampering the agency. but. rather. our job should be to correct and revise in order to let this work continue and fire those who should get fired. i am glad the chairman of the agency. mr. winslow carlton. a distinguished new yorker. has annced that he will seek the guidance of a very eminent group of lawyersand i hope very much they will accept the invtiationto tell the board exactly what they must and should do. this is in addition to the other recommendations to be made by a government agency. in order to bring about a complete reform of what needs to be reformed. in the way of its operations. financial and otherwise. so the necessary work of the agency may go forward. i emphasize that last statement. it is with satisfaction that i am able to report to the senate and to the country that from every interested quarterthe department of justice and the municipal authorities of new yorkthere be aid for the mobilization for youth agency. the good faith of the agency is being questioned. i think what needs to be cleaned out should be cleaned out in order that the work may go forward. which is the key to everything i have said today. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record at this point an editorial from the new york times of today. august 21. which takes generally the same line i have taken. as well as an editorial from the new york post of august 18. a factual analysis of the situation from the wall street journal of recent date. and an article from the new york times of august 21 headed "report due today on youth agency."
. on january 28 the senate passed s. 4. legislation to amend the federal water pollution control act. this bill. managed by senator muskie. the able chairman of the special subcommittee on water pollution of the senate public works committee. provided grants for research and development. increased grants for construction of municipal sewage treatment works. and authorized the establishment of standards of water quality to aid in preventing pollution. at that time. i introduced an amendment to s. 4 to eliminate features of the existing water pollution control act which discriminate against heavily populated areas. this amendment was intended to: first. eliminate the existing limitation of $600.000 for a single project or $2.4 million for a joint project involving several communities on grants for construction of waste treatment facilities. and also authorize an acrosstheboard federal contribution of 30 percent of the cost of constructing these facilities. second. eliminate the existing requirement that half of all construction grant funds be used for municipalities of 125.000 people or less. third. establish a more meaningful standard for the allocation of funds for construction of sewage treatment facilities in urban areas of need. the state of new york is embarking on a new $1.7 billion water pollution program with $513 million to be expended through 1970 for construction of needed sewage treatment facilities. to permit states making substantial efforts in this important field to accelerate their work. i believe the federal government should assume a full 30percent share. and the other provisions of the present law which discriminate against heavily populated urban areas should be altered. during debate on the amendment the distinguished manager of the bill assured the senate that hearings would be held on the questions raised by this amendment and the adequacy of the existing grant program and in view of the tremendous water pollution control needs of heavily populated areas. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point an editorial from todays new york times on this subject.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself and my colleague from new york a joint resolution to provide for appropriate federal recognition of the historical importance of the bowne house in flushing. long island. john bowne. who built the house in 1661. played a significant role in the fight for religious tolerance. recognition of this beautiful home as a symbol of religious tolerance is particularly appropriate at this time when our nation is so arduously seeking solutions to the problems of tolerance and understanding of miity groups on many fronts. it was a great ho and pleasure for me to have served in 1957 as hoary cochairman of the new york state joint legislative committee for the celebration of the 300th anniversary of the signing of the flushing remonstrance. and i am glad  to make this effort. along with my colleague. to ho properly this nationally important shrine and symbol of religious freedom. the resolution was prepared with the cooperation of the board of trustees of the bowne house historical society. the full text follows: whereas. by the flushing remonstrance of 1657. the freeholders of flushing in defiance of measures of religious persecution undertaken by gov. peter stuyvesant. insisted on the right to have and enjoy liberty of conscience and to welcome in their homes "any sons of adam among us". and whereas bowne house was constructed in 1661 from timbers hand hewn by john bowne who moved to flushing in his determination to find a community and a home where he could worship god according to his convictions. and whereas. despite the promise of religious liberty originally contained in the charter of the town of flushing. john bowne was arrested in 1662 and fined with a warning to abstain in future from religious meetings of the society of friends. and whereas he was transported to holland for further sentencing and offered such an eloquent plea for tolerance and liberty of conscience that he was released. the governing body of the province declaring that "the conscience of men. at least. ought to remain free". and whereas the trial and acquittal of john bowne is one of the landmarks of religious freedom in this nation. comparable to the trial of john peter zenger in the history of freedom of the press. one of the stepping stones that led to the drafting of the bill of rights in the u.s. constitution. and whereas bowne house. in which the prescribed religious meetings were held. was acquired by the bowne house historical society in 1945 in celebration of the tercentenary of the community of flushing. dedicated by mayor fiorello la guardia on october 10. 1945. as a national shrine to religious freedom and tolerance. and opened to the public on independence day. 1947. and whereas bowne house today stands with much of its original construction and with contemporary furnishings intact and has been designated in the journal of the american institute of architects as one of the 20 structures of national importance in new york city which should be preserved at all costs: therefore be it resolved by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the secretary of the interior is hereby directed to provide. with the consent of the bowne house historical society. for appropriate recognition by the federal government of the national historical and architectural significance of the bowne house. flushing. n.y.
. i call the attention of the senate to a resolution of support for new federal immigration law. in the form of s. 500 in the senate and h.r. 2580 in the house. issued by the city commission on human rights of the city of new york and transmitted by mayor wagner with a strong endorsement. as i serve on the judiciary committee. i think it is appropriate that i should ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record. and that it be made a part of my remarks. together with a letter of transmittal from the mayor. i wish to express my appreciation for the support of both the commission and the mayor for this legislationwhich implements urgently needed immigration reform policy.
s personal endorsement of premier ky strengthened kys image in the united states but  in his own country. and was the first step in the evolution of the crisis. in the crucial months ahead. we must learn from experience. we must- adopt and follow a handsoff policy regarding vietnam political affairs. this is the first lesson. the second lesson is that military effort is only part of waging a struggle such as the one in vietnam. indeed. the very success of arvnu.s. military operations has allowed political differenceswhich have always existed uneasily beneath the surface in south vietnamto flourish. the buddhist groups. which are avowedly anticommunist. would  have attempted to topple the saigon government unless the military situation was becoming more secure. various political. religious. and tribal groups. have been jockeying .for power in vietnam for years. this is bound to continue regardless of the war. we can only hope to keep it from getting out of hand. beyond the military struggle and beyond the feuding political factions lies the real warthe war.against poverty and even starvation. neither the united states  the saigon leaders are waging this battle with adequate resources. the united states. plans to spend $12 billion on the military effort in vietnam during the current fiscal year. u.s. aid earmarked for the 700.000 vietnam refugees is a shockingly low figure of $21 million. of which only $5.2 million is designated for food commodities. the record of the saigbn governments aid for refugees is equally dismal. its projection for this year is $14 million. unless an allout effort is made by both ourselves and the south vietnamese or these social and ecoic fronts. the whole military effort could have been in vain. the third lesson concerns the inevitability of antiamericanism in such situations. whenever.a nation as powerful as ours becomes massively embroiled in a foreign war. resentient is bound to ensue. our troops come in and present a totally unfamiliar. and at times unpopular. life style. the expenditures of u.s. dollars revolutionizes and dislocates the ecoy. all attention seems to focus on the american presence. obviously. it is only a short step for the people of the host country to begin to believe that they are longer -the masters of their own fate. their frustration invariably turns against those who are there precisely to help them. to prevent these feelings from dxploding. it is up to the united states to conduct itself with dignity and restraint. there is still time to apply these lessons to the vietnam situation in the critical weeks ahead. we face hard choices right at this moment. should the government of premier ky remain in office. or should aher government with the same plans for vietnam assume power and responsibility. the united states can continue to play its part in vietnam. on the other hand. if a new vietnamese government should ask us to leave. we have three alternatives: first. persist etheless and virtually take over the governmental operations in south vietnam. second. withdraw our troops from the asian mainland. or. third. redeploy our forces to aher asian location. if we are forced to reappraise our position. i urge that we do so in light of our basic policy to datethat is. we are in vietnam because the government of that country wishes to wage a struggle for independence and freedom and desires our help. in event should the struggle there be carried on by u.s. forces alone. in event should we "go it alone" in south vietnam. just as i oppose carrying on the effort in vietnam by ourselves. i also reject complete withdrawal from the asian mainland. there are still a number of nations in that area which need and de-. sire our help in holding off the chinese communists. who still vow to persist in their socalled wars of national libera-. tionwhich are actually wars of aggression. should conditions -force us to leave south vietnam. -i believe that our best choice is to redeploy our troops in aher asian country. it is my view that our forces should be kept together in effective units and redeployed where they can be available to counter any new aggressive move by communist china. thern thailand is so threatened. and should the government of thailaid request such assistance. i believe that at least some of our troops ought to be restationed there. . i see disgrace in redeploying our troops under the above conditions. i belieye that we have already demonstrated what we set out to demonstrate: that we are willing to back our commitments. every nation that wishes to be free from communist domination has already been heartened by our determination in vietnam. in these efforts. however. we can guarantee success. we can only guarantee a good faith effort itself. this we have done. on yesterday. wednesday. april 20. secretary of defense mcnamara testified before the senate foreign relations committee. i welcome his testimony as a clear indication that we intend to keep out of vietnamese domestic politics. that our applications of force remains limited. and that we still seek and are willing to accept freely expressed desires of the vietnamese people in a national election. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from secretary mcnamaras testimony. as reported in this mornings new york times. be made a part of my remarks.
. these are the facts.  theories. and they show the grave situation confronting congress. i think i have given egh facts today to show what i maintain. namely. that we can have a balanced understanding of what is happening to the cities and we can lay the lash of blame across the administration and municipal officials alone. they have their defects. shortcomings. and derelictions. but so do we in the congress. as i have outlined. and if we really intend to help the cities. which i think we must do. and with which i think most of us agree. then we must act on measures which have  been acted on or which have  been acted on adequately.  i would appreciate it. i am trying to do all this because i have been trying to do the business of the senate. so much of which is done in conference.
. mayor john a. anderson. of rockville centre. n.y.. has issued a proclamation urging all residents. business firms. and organizations in rockville centre to fly the u.s. flag during we support our servicemen in vietnam week. april 8 to 15. this is to be an expression of loyalty and esteem for our servicemen in vietnam. and i heartily endorse it.. whatever views the people of the united states may have with respect to vietnam. all can agree in paying tribute to the valor. courage. and sacrifice of our fighting men. i ask unanimous consent that the proclamation. which resulted from a resolution passed by rockville centre april 11. 1967
. cohoes. n.y.. is one of 11 cities to win the 1966 all america city award sponsored by the national municipal league and look magazine. i congratulate mayor mcdonald and other members of the citizens party who. in a few short years of government. have brought this award to cohoes. in 1963. the citizens party set out to clean up the municipal government. institute needed reforms. and arouse the community from the lethargy which had claimed its public life for the previous years. the citizens party campaigned on a platform of reform. and once in office proceeded to activate its campaign promises by creating. among other things. a new industrial commission. a recreation commission. and an ecoic opportunity commission. under the guidance of mayor mcdonald and other dedicated leaders. cohoes has experienced a reawakening which has resulted in an enhanced sense of civic pride for many of its residents. the enthusiasm and success of the cohoes experiment should serve as inspiration to others elsewhere to fight for and demand good government in their own communities. i ask unanimous consent that a new york times article which further describes cohoes progress be printed in the record.
that is all right. the administrators are already reeling under cutbacks in fullyear antipoverty programs such as headstart. dear to the hearts of so many senators. this process creates dissolution at the local level among both the poor and the dedicated people who are seeking to help them. one of the most dedicated and able of new york citys antipoverty officials. the hoable george nicolau. commissioner of the community development agency. which is the community action agency for new york city. recently resigned rather than have to take personal charge of this cutting back process. he generally expresses the tremendous expertise as well as the frustration of those administrators in his letter of resignation to mayor lindsay. which bears tragic witness to the effect this action is having in the cities in the existing situation and shows the critically urgent need for the $150 million for summer jobs in the supplemental appropriation for which senator yarborough and i are contending. i ask unanimous consent that his letter of resignation to mayor lindsay may be made a part of my remarks.
 to seize the opening presented by premier kosygins speech. to see if the soviet union and the united states can agree on deescalation of the mideast arms race and the beginning of peace negotiations between the arab states and israel.
i hope that the senator will  let it go at that . because we are very much in the argument. there is good attendance. and i hope very much that he will elucidate his point. i think it extremely valid and well taken. i had  intended to say anything further about the matter. but with a new amendment coming up. i think it is vital that we understand exactly what this paragraph means. as i understood it. it would allow the secretary of agriculture to put a program into an area. when i objected to the amendment of the senator from iowa. it seemed to me that. if the qualification for putting this program into an area was to be an appraisal by the secretary of resources of certain children or their parents. there was way to obtain such information. and therefore means by which the secretary could make the determination. as a practical matter. all the proviso really does is to provide an opportunity. either to the secretary of agriculture or to municipal officials or other local authorities. if the secretary chooses to delegate that authority to them. perhaps to deny the benefits of a direct distribution program which he puts into effect. based upon a determination as to a general situation in that area. to certain individuals because they do  qualify under this proviso. otherwise. it has meaning at all. i believe it is completely impracticable for the secretary of agriculture to deal with this matter from washington on an individual child or individual family basis. i do  think the miller amendment. as clarified. applies in personam. or is particularly meaningful or adds anything special by way of a solution. but i heartily agree with the senator from rhode island that this evaluation really has place where you give the secretary of agriculture the power to move into an area. which is the only power he could practically carry out. therefore. the right way to pursue this issue and present it to the senate is by striking the whole proviso.
i think that is a very fair statement. . the congress consists of two houses. we must assume that when the house has approved the conference report this represents the intention of the house as expressed by its managers.. but if i were asked to interpret.itand i greatly appreciate the view of the principal manager on. the part of the senate. the chairman of our subcommittee or his designeeit is my concept that what we wanted to do was to establish the most efficient and creative solution. i would say. interpreting the views which are implied in this report.. that both house and. senate conferees would agree that state domination is  intended. on the other. hand.. i would  wish the implication that there is an existing preference for local determination and local control. to the extent that the house managers imply support for an arbitrary preference for local community administrationthat. .too. should be rebutted. i rather think what we want is a wide open field in which there shall be preference but in which there shall be domination or compulsion or guidelines that it must bea state 6rlbcal control or a municipal administration that has priority. but whatever creatively is in the best interests of the program.
as a practical matter. that is  so. as a practical matter. municipal budgets have  been cut because of public housing. and that certainly was  the basic reason why i sponsored the house bill. i can say about the senator from louisiana. but my basic reason was that people should live decently. instead of like subhuman creatures. in structures worthy of our country. that was one of the le motives for the taftellenderwagner act when it was passed in 1948. so i respectfully submit. .  we are suddenly going to get highly moral about the whole thing. and cut out the children who live in public housing. that is all the amendment amounts to. it seems to me that the senator from missouri . the author of this amendment-
. the current issue of the record. of the association of the bar of the city of new york. contains a speech entitled "the rule of law." delivered by mayor john v. lindsay. of new york city. as a lawyer committed to the preservation of the rule of law as fundamental to a free society. i commend this speech to the attention of senators and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. i have objection on that score. i might point out that under these circumstances the city of new york will probably do a lot better than it would otherwise do. but i did think that if the senator was giving us the administrations position on the bill. he ought to give that matter consideration because it does have bearing on his subsequent effort to give more authority to the gover of a state. the sentence which follows the one we have just been discussing says: "to the maximum extent feasible. such apportioned funds shall be expended ..."and i emphasize the word "expended""... through approved applications submitted by such prime sponsors. the word "expended" means that if we get a local political unit. for example a mayor or county executive. administering this program. we are really compelling him. whether desirable or advantageous or wise for the community. to expend the funds. again. i would ask the senator if he could explain to us his reason for that. it is really  an essential point.
there must be a city which is 75.000. or an aggregation of counties or cities which are 100.000. this does  mean one place. but an aggregation of places which total that population. the other areas which do  qualify under either standard are  neglected. they just become a responsibility of the state. this is really a question of who administers the program. if it is a 75.000 area. it can be administered by a mayor in that area. if it is a 100.000 area. it can be administered by a county executive in that 100.000 area. if it is outside either area. it is administered by the state.
. during the week of june 7 to 11. mayor lindsay designated new york as "fur city" in ho of the industry which has made new york city the fur capital of the nation. this special week. created and financed by the joint furriers council. was celebrated by events including a fur fashion show and the blocking off and decorating of part of seventh avenue for the enjoyment of pedestrians. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the speech given at that time by mr. george stofsky. manager of the furriers joint council of new york. be printed in the record.
. i trust that it will be satisfactory and i join with the senator from new jersey in the proposal. however. i want to be sure that we have difference of opinion as to what it means. i might tell the distinguished senator from th carolina that i was  troubled by the word "constitutional" but by "legal powers.". he would be. as a lawyer. too. because all that means is appertaining to the functions of his officeand all his powers are legal. of course. so we wanted to be sure of the ambit of "... any person chosen to be a personal assistant. or an immediate adviser .. " if the senator will bear with me for a moment. i should like to say. as we understand those difficulties. that i hope i will  be construed as being didactic. i do  mean that at all. that is. eight persons only. and  one more personanything like that. we are talking about the order of magnitude. i have desire to argue about the fine points of some particular appointment. but generally speaking we consider a personal assistant as being a secretary or. as i have. an administrative assistant. a legislative aide. and then a mayor may have four assistants. so that is what we would understand a personal assistant to be. "a secretary." of course. is an accurate designation. he may have two or three secretaries. important people have more than one. the other thing. the innediate advisers. i was thinking more in terms of a cabinet. of a gover who would call his commissioners a cabinet. or he may have a cabinet composed of three or four executive officials. or five or six. who would do the main and important things. that is what i would define those things expressly to mean. what troubled me yesterday was the idea of getting down to the "nittygritty." as i explained to the senator the "many assistants." when i was attorney general. i employed 500 people. of those 500 persons. perhaps on the outside 20 would be personal assistants or immediate advisers. but the other 480 would be persons who might be assistants in charge of a particular function. or something like that. so. if we understand each other on that score. this is entirely satisfactory to me. do i understand correctly. then. that we agree on this.
.  if i may have the attention of the manager of the bill and the ranking miity member. i would like to ask a question relating to this particular matter. it would be helpful if we could have an expression from the senate conferees in support of the policy that final decision to build the morgan annex should be made until the report of the comptroller general. and the positions of the new york city municipal agencies involved. are received and analyzed by the parties. as i have said. i have every reason to state that the comptroller generals report should be in hand within 10 days. i hope very much that in this way we can avoid any necessity for moving into legislation in respect of the matter and also any necessity because of this particular situation for my voting against the conference report.
. recently seymour graubard. esq.. of new york. national chairman of the antidefamation league of bnai brith visited moscow. accompanying new york citys mayor john v. lindsay who was there on a city to city visit. the report and commentary on his visit is published in the may 1973 issue of the adl bulletin. the national publication of the antidefamation league. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
it has worked out very well considering where we started from. but it is a moment for a new departure. i agree with that. the question i wanted to ask the manager of the bill is this: the bill seems to contemplate future to state land use programs rather than existing programs and reading sections 201. 202. and 203 at least leaves that question somewhat up in the air. for example. section 201(a) reads: the secretary . . . is authorized to make annual grants to each state to assist each state in developing and adminstering a state land use program meeting the requirements set forth in this act. that seems to take into account plans which are ongoing when the 1 :11 becomes law. on the other hand. other sections. like section 203. are ambivalent as to whether it is based on existing plans or plans under this act. in new york we have had. under a succession of govers. culminating in gover rockefeller. developed a remarkable land use plan for the area called the adirondacks. the adirondack park agency administers the plan which covers 6 million acres. both private and public lands. the plan developed for this area and approved by the state legislature fits in with the concept of this bill very well. question: is this any disqualification or is any special qualification needed to bring this existing plan under the terms of the bill. will it be recognized that we have in effect an ongoing land use program like the one i have described. under the terms of this bill.
i ice that a description of the bill speaks of the fact that the secretary. in carrying out his land use responsibilities under the act. would be required to establish procedures assuring adequate consultation with appropriate elected officials of the local governments. including those whose availability under the program has been suspended.
i thank the senator. . on one matter the conferees. in my judgment. took action which i think would have been better taken if they had  concurred in that particular action. and that is to deny a certain certificate of navigability on the hudson river which would make possible the construction of a convention center in new york. there was a very strong feeling on the other part of a certain congresswoman who represents that particular district. i understand it was due to her opposition that the decision was made. the mayor of our city. the governing body. the board of estimate. and i think generally everyone. favors the convention center in new york. i wish to report that an effort is being made to satisfy as many as possible on the deficiencies that have been pointed out from the congressional district respecting the convention center. and i am very hopeful that this item may again be presented and this time that it will be enacted in either a particular special measure or in an omnibus measure of this kind. i hope the senate will be clear that we are  abandoning the project. this is a very highly indirect way of inhibiting the project. because generally we do  kill a project or move in a direction which would kill it simply by denying the necessary certificate relating to navigability of a stream over which the federal government has jurisdiction. i think that is certainly a frustration of local will. we in this body talk a great deal about local will. but the governing body of the city and the mayor want this project. which is very important to new york. it will be a huge project which is necessary to make new york a modern convention city. and it will attract tourism and conventions which will help new york. which suffers from a lot of unemployment. which could be helped by this kind of development. rather than seek to reargue the 4+uation. i simply wish to state so the record may be clear that the city is  abandoning the project. that the project is being pursued. that every effort will be made to give some satisfaction to what is desired in that particular local area and i hope that my colleagues. befebruary*21. 1974 cause this is the nature of the congress. will give one member a veto over what one great city can do to help itself. i do  think that is the desire of the congresswoman. i think it was done in utmost good faith and out of deep concern for that particular community. but we do think it must be made clear that while the project has been frustrated momentarily. it is altogether too significant for new york to be permanently shelved by so really technical a matter as the part which the united states plays in it. namely. a granting of a certificate of navigability.
. i am pleased to extend my warmest congratulations to all the new york city schoolchildren who recently participated in french language weekfebruary 28 to march 8. 1975 as proclaimed by the hoable abraham d. beame. mayor of the city of new yorkand the citywide contest on frenchrelated themes sponsored by the board of education of the city: of new york. i wish to pay special tribute to the pupilsand their teacherswho were awarded french contest prizes for demonstrating extraordinary bilingual talent and interest in french language and culture. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a -letter dated march 7. 1975. from the cultural affairs office of the french embassy in new york city which includes the winners names and schools.
. the environmental problems that played a leading role in forcing denver. colo.. to withdraw as the site of the 1976 winter olympics and that plague other possible sites for the games in the united states. do  exist in lake placids designation as the 1980 site. a combination of circumstances dating back almost threequarters of a century have assured that lake placid will  be faced with the ecological problems that haunt other sites. prior to 1900. the new york legislature. acting with almost unprecedented foresight. amended the state constitution to establish the "forever wild" adirondack state park. lake placid is located almost in the center of the high peaks area of the adirondacks. and the new york state constitution has provided a permanent safeguard against despoliation of the park. state legislation has created the adirondack park agency with broad authority to establish a master plan for state owned and privately owned lands in the adirondack park. even further. the agency has already exercised its comprehensive authority to establish a state land master plan and adirondack park private land use and development plan with rigid land use controls. both the town of th elba and the village of lake placid have a long history of professional community planning. each community has detailed zoning ordinances. active planning boards and boards of zoning appeals. strict sign ordinances and trailer ordinances already exist in the village of lake placid and are nearing reality in the town of th elba. lake placid provides an almost unlimited source of present and future water requirements for the area. municipal facilities have been designed to serve the needs of a community of 20.000 to 25.000 persons. far in excess of foreseeable requirements for the next 25 years. without question. the hosting of a 1980 winter olympics will involve the expansion and improvement of present facilities and the construction of some new facilities. it is here that lake placid can point with pride to its almost unexcelled existing winter sports facilities. almost every sports facility necessary to host the 1980 winter olympics  exists and is in annual use. the following are the principal facilities and the necessary improvements to be made.
i thank my colleague. . i wish members would consider their own consciences and their own oaths of office in thinking.  about the mayor of new york. for whom we do  have to shed any tears. but about the 8 million people in new york who are hit by a serious catastrophe. which may involve  only them but the country and the world. sure. they. elected these successive mayors. but we do  operate that way in this country. we have come to the rescue of community after community in this country. for one catastrophe or aher. which had far less complexity. with far less danger than the people of new york. everybody here ks that the objection to the meeting of the committee is just to block the bill. it has hing whatever to do with people being on the floor or anything else. i say that advisedly. because every other committee is free to meet. that is the best answer. . this is a greater emergency in terms of time pressure than the emergency of having the senators on the floor this aftern. do  be callous to 8 million americans who pay into the federal treasury at least five times what the federal treasury ever pays out to them and which is. in the eyes of  only most americans. but most people in the world. the very paramount city in the world and in the united states. we are letting it go down the drain very. very dangerously. i do  say to senator long what we should do. i say only. at least give it the decent dignity and respect of considering its trouble and.see if we should do anything.
i have dealt with the question of the excesses. may i say. one of the truest things the mayor of new yorkwho is obviously a very deeply troubled man and who l came to this place through many. many years of very arduous service as a civil servant and a public officer in new york city itselfhas asked us. and i think it is a very challenging question. what would the british parliament do with london. what would the french chamber of deputies do with paris. what would any parliament of the countries the senator referred to do with their city. i believe and he believes that they would impose very strict conditions. but there would be question about the fact that they would  wish that city destroyed in terms of its ability to function as a great city. which means that somehow it has got to have some kind of credit.
. the chairman of our delegation has explained exactly how we were organized. i might inform the senate that it was one of the most productive and constructive trips i have ever taken. also. i believe it was very useful to our country. both in what we taught and in what we learned. i. too. join in and endorse the appreciation expressed by senator percy for those who guided us about in china and the list of municipal and other officials who entertained us. if my colleague is willing. i ask unanimous consent that that list be printed in the record.
i would suggest that one of the most interesting things that members could be engaged in would be to come up to new york. i think they will find. those who have visited new york from time to time. very visually apparent the very thing that the senator from wisconsin is talking about. the traffic situation is  doubly difficult because policemen. even meter maids. are longer around at all. seemingly. though there are some. the situation of selfhelp in respect of sanitation is very obvious. people are containing their garbage. it is remaining on the streets for very much longer periods of time. even in excellent neighborhoods like the one i live in. this is obvious. in many other ways. it is clear to the casual visitor. who has visited new york before. that there has been a monumental contraction in city services. as the senator says. whether this city can truly survive as americas premier city is in some doubt. frankly. this is  the best bill by any means. from the point of view of preserving an emous revenue source for the united states. but we are living in a pragmatic world. there is hing much we can do about it. we are left breathing. period. i shall have a chance. later on. and i am  going to intrude on the senators time. to discuss my own view of what is going to happen to americas premier city as a result of this situation and this legislation. but that is neither here  there. the fact is that we are left breathing. we are  dead. we will be dead if we go into bankruptcy. so it is the best we can do and it must be acceptable to me. to the gover. to the mayor. and to everybody else.
. reserving the right to object. i have  had an opportunity to examine very carefully the bankruptcy bill. it affects  only new york state. which has other municipalities and problems. such as yonkers. but municipal finance throughout the country. i have idea what senator buckleys amendment is or anything like that. i reserve the right. as part of the unanimousconsent request. to propose an amendment or to amend amendments which are proposed to have an hour and a half limitation on debate on any such amendment. i aski think the senator ks me very well. i may  propose any amendments--that any such amendments that i propose. which will relate to the bill or other amendments thereto. be considered in proper order. it is just a precaution.
 of the national league of cities of the u.s. conference of mayors in new york city at the annual dinner of puerto rican forum. one of the oldest and most influential selfhelp groups within the puerto rican community. there is need to.  do i associate myself with all the views expressed in the speech of mayor romerobarcelo. but it is such a searching inquiry into the outlook of about a million of my fellow new yorkers as to be well worth my colleagues reading. i ask unanimous consent that mayor romerobarcelos speech be printed in the record.
. italy is. in many ways. the cradle of western civilization. it was an italian who discovered america. there are strong sentimental ties between the united states and italy. the brilliance of the record of citizens of italian descent is something that we have . even in our ethnically oriented society. seen as clearly as when we look at it through this veil of tears. which  besets italy. one can forget fiorella laguardias influence. the former mayor of new york. in respect of a comparable italian election many years ago. when literally millions of americans of italian extraction communicated their views concerning that election.
i thank the chair very much for that and i appreciate it greatly. second. i ask the author. and  with his cosponsors. if he and they would  consent to take out subsection (h) of this substitute. and let me explain why. subsection (h) says: it is the sense of the senate that the secretary of state should transmit (1) a copy of this resolution to each foreign government. that means every foreign government on earth. and(2) a copy of any resolution adopted under (f) (1) to the government of each country which is a party to the agreement ... that is overboard. i will tell senators why. there is one thing we want to avoid. and that is to be the foreign policy negotiators. that is without any question the absolute province of the president of the united states. i think even the slightest intimation that we would communicate with a foreign power about the internal authorities and our own wrestling matches which go on here is ill advised
as i said. . i k of issue in the foreign policy field that has caused me more vexation than this. for a number of years. i have presided as chairman in an effort to obtain greek and turkish ecoic cooperation. that effort looked extremely promising until it was untracked by the military coup in greece in 1967. i believe that prime minister ecevit. of turkey. and premier karamanlis. of greece. are two of the really outstanding statesmen of the world. comparable in their own countries. on the one side. karamanlis with venizelos and. on the other. ecevit with ataturk. those illustrious predecessors concluded an accord in the 1920s which gave peace to greece and turkey. for 50 years withstanding the centuriesold traditional struggle between the greek and turkish people. it is my judgment. after giving it the most profound consideration. that for this time we ought to stay where we are and. therefore. i shall vote against the amendment. i would like to give my reasons. it is very difficult for me because i k that anger. antipathy. and anxiety never produce peace. but one has to make a choice in our business. and one has to vote yea or nay.
