and i would concur with the distinguished senator from nevada. i think those of us who are on the other side of this issue want to reemphasize our belief that this body does have the right to determine its own membership. we are  in any way contesting or assaulting that portion of the constitution. but by virtue of this dialog. both of us agree the constitution is silent as to the methods that we employ to make that determination.
. i ask all my colleagues on both sides to devote just a few minutes to what. in effect. is our judgment by virtue of our constitutional right of a situation that has come into our hands. i want to reaffirm my belief in our constitutional right to adjudicate our membership. to determine our membership. this amendment is wise assaults. chips away at. or contradicts that absolute right of the u.s. senate to determine its membership. the amendment states there are varied methods by which we can exercise that judgment. it is  in the constitution of the united states that our judgment has to be exercised by the rules and administration committee. or any other committee. indeed. i suggest to the senate today that. within that power we have. it is our duty consistently to seek out the best possible ways of exercising thatjudgment_ that determination. that is why i voted against the motion of the senator from michigan. and i shall vote against the motion of the distinguished senator from montanaif offered. both motions employ a method that i do  feel in this day and age is the best answer to handling this difficult situation. in the course of my debate with the distinguished senator from nevada i asked him to touch upon those instances when indeed we might take such an action of sending it back to the constituency from where it came. he said. "if we can make the decision down here. that would be the valid basis for sending it back to the constituency from whence it came." i ask each senator. before voting on this motion. to take a look at the document before him that has within its contents a picture of a voting machine. this document clearly indicates how there was a discrepancy with regard to the voting machine in manchester. n.h.. and clearly sets forth how it is impossible for any one of us here to make the determination as to who was the winner in new hampshire. so what i am asking that we do is to act as we do every day. when. indeed. we set our own rules and we set our own precedents. i ask that we determine. one. yes. we have the power to decide who shall be a member of this body. and that. two. as men of fair conscience. and of relevancy to todays political world. the best method in this set of circumstances is to allow that judgment to be made by the people of new hampshire. we are operating within our constitutional power. we can set a different political standard for the rest of the country. either in our own parties or in this chamber. a standard that has come to encompass greater enfranchisement. greater participation. outintheopen decisions. if. in fact. at this point in time given these circumstances we estimate that 3. 8. or indeed. 100 can make a wiser decision than thousands in the state of new hampshire. in conclusion. in asking support for this amendment. i ask you to vote for it. and in doing so to uphold our constitutional right and to make a determination within our powers of commonsense. fairness. and relevancy to the citizens of todays nation.
in sum. i am convinced this legislation will allow both the congress and the executive to fulfill their respective obligations under the constitution in regard to the decision to engage in and wage war. it represents a justified reassertion of congressional prerogatives in an area of vital concern to our domestic tranquillity and our national security. it merits the firm and unequivocal support of the senate
 says. "i would be sorry to order our aid withheld but in such circumstances i will order it withheld. rather than permit violations of the constitution"which is precisely what we would be doing if we utilized these corpsmen in ways which this amendment seeks to prevent. it is often said that an antisegregation amendment is gratuitous. but in this case it is clearly . the attorney general testified that. according to his view of this matter. the corpsmen may be assigned to institutions which are in a segregated situation. but that is exactly what this amendment is designed to prevent. therefore. this amendment is  what one could call the usual type of antisegregation amendmentone designed to throw a block and so prevent something from happening. this is an effort to deal with exactly what the attorney general says he will do.. if we are going to stop him. we must adopt this amendment. i have appealed to the attorney general. and  i appeal to my colleagues. i rather suspect that the senator from new jersey may very well agree with me. we appealed to the attorney general to give us some assurance that the corpsmen will  serve in segregated situations. however. we can get such assurance from him. because he says expressly the contrary. so we are  dealing with a vain antisegregation amendmentsomething put in to kill the bill or something put in to labor the obvious. we are dealing with an amendment directed to what the attorney general says he will do unless we stop him. unless we declare our policy. i deeply feel that if we mean what we say about this question of constitutional rights. we can say to an -elite corps of fine young people in the united states. "we are going to have you serve in situations which violate the constitution of the united states." i think that responsibility is paramount to any other. and i hope very much that the amendment will be agreed to.
well. as a practical matter the way in which lobbying organizations are organized is subject to continuing review by the organizations themselves. i would say it would only require an opinion if there were some major change relating to the formal relationships in any organization. but in the absence of a major organizational change. the same relationship would continue throughout. so that if a trade union were reorganized with some new relationship between the international and the locals. then they would have to decide again. you k. whether or  they still had the same status they had before. but in the absence of any basic change relating to its charter or constitution it would certainly be the opinion of the proponents of the legislation that new determination would be necessary.
