. i regret that it was necessary for me to absent myself from the chamber and that i was therefore. unable to hear the distinguished senator from louisiana analyze my statements with respect to the bill. i shall deal with his remarks in due course. at this time. i should like to proceed with my argument in chief i made the point that even if congress imposed the interest equalization tax. it would  result in reducing the outflow of dollars represented by private investment. the best evidence of that is found in the testimony before the committee itself. witnesses testified that as soon as the uncertainty concerning whether the tax would be imposed or which uncertainty has existed by executive fiat. really. since july 1963was lifted. securities flotations. in their judgment. would be just about what they were before. because two reasons intervene. first. interest rates in the united states for the sale of prime securities of oversea borrowers are such that it would still be profitable. withstanding the 1percent addition to the rate of interest. to raise money in the united states. i have before me a table of the interest rates  generally prevalent in the other major industrial countries. which are the primary countries that would be reached by the inhibition of the interest equalization tax. they show current longterm interest rates. the table shows that except for one country. switzerlandand i shall deal with that situation in a momenteven after one adds 1 percent to the longterm rate of interest in the united states. it would make it profitable to raise money here. for example. the canadian rate of interest in june 1964 was 5.19 percent. the rate of interest in france. the last figures we have being for may 1964. was 5.49 percent. the rate of interest in the united kingdom is 6.16 percent. these are the average rates of current interest on firstrate longterm securities of the kind we are discussing. in the united states. the comparable rate is 4.13 percent. so when we add the 1percent difference that would be added by the interest equalization tax. the rate in the united states would be less than it is. withstanding the difference. in canada. france. germany. and the united kingdom. the principal industrial countries of the world. switzerland is one country in which the rate of interest is less than it is here. in switzerland. the rate is 4.05 percent. but switzerland does  raise any appreciable amount of money that would be reached by the interest equalization tax.  can much be done about raising money in switzerland. because there is very tight control by the swiss themselves over their borrowing.  through any interest equalization tax. but through direct government action. in addition. swiss markets will  absorb very much in the way of financing. so for these builtin reasons. the swiss situation represents analogy to our situation. as to our situation. the fact that the other industrial countries have higher interest rates. which will easily accommodate the 1percent differential which the tax will impose. makes it very clear that this will be inhibition on borrowing. second. it is well kn. and was testified to time and again in the hearings before the committee on finance. that the united states is the only market in the world in which appreciable amounts of money can be raised.  that it is entirely raised from american sources. on the contrary. it is estimated that. until recently. only about 40 percent was raised from american sources. this percentage may be greater . the rest is raised from sources abroad. this is borne out by the committee itself. from figures which the senator from ohio and i discussed a while ago. which sh6wed that. according to figures in the committee report. in round figures. about onethird of the flotations in this country were sold to americans. this is without taking account of the many exceptions which the bill wouldcreate. the importance of the american market is its marketing organization. the importance of the american market is that our banking firms are experts in the distribution of securities. so although they distribute less than a majority of the securities in the united states. their distribution sources and their prestige throughout the world are so great that they constitute the best marketing organizations in the world for securities.
in that statement. i go along with the senator from louisiana. it is different from what he previously stated. i am delighted that he made the statement. we are of one mind on that score. i k that we all wish the government to do what is best for the people and the country. and  to have its hands tied behind its back. my eyes are wide open to the fact that we shall be giving the government such authority if this bill is enacted into law. we can expect it to use that authority and  to run away from it or be afraid of it. the major european countries have government controls over foreign securities issues. these are the major factors which affect the capital market in the world. this type of regulation exists in switzerland. in the benelux countries. in france. and also in the united kingdom. there the government. or in some cases a central bank authority. exercises control over foreign securities issues. in the case of switze rland. moral suasion is effective. because it is a small country. the government s its head and everyone more or less follows along with what is wished. or perhaps the government acts in in cooperation with stock exchange listing committees. that is the technique in the benelux countries. perhaps. the most analogous case is our sister country of the united kingdom. where action is taken on the advice of the capital issues committee. exactly the proposal which is before the senate in this amendment. the capital issues committee idea has wide support in the financial community. for example. the president of the manufacturers haer trust co. of new york. a former chairman of the council of ecoic advisers to the president. gabriel hauge has pointed out in a ember 1963 speech. that a voluntary program patterned after the voluntary credit restraint program of 1957 should be developed as an alternative to this bill. the association of stock exchange firms feels the same way. the president of the new york stock exchange feels the same way. so do a number of other stock exchange houses. also. great national newspapers. such as the new york times and the washington post. have consistently supported the creation of a capital issues committee as an alternative to the interest equalization tax specified in the bill. madam president. i point out the statement of a former high official of our government. a former assistant secretary of the treasury. mr. dan throop smith. who testified before the finance committee. his testimony begins on page 246 of the hearings. he. as well as other witnesses. came out strongly for a capital issues committee as an alternative. a much better alternative than the interest equalization tax. with respect specifically to the capital issues committee. he stated on page 252 as follows: senator mccarthy. do you think that same benefit might be secured through the creation of a capital issues committee of some kind. mr. smrrn. oh. i definitelysenator mccarthy. perhaps you testified to that in your statement.
