is it possible that if this amendment should be adopted. after the comptroller of the currency or the board of directors of the federal reserve system had approved a merger or a consolidation. the attorney general could then invoke the power he has  exercised for years under the sherman act. and nevertheless seek to undo the merger or consolidation despite the finding of aher government agency that it was perfectly proper.
i thank the senator for his helpful remarks. i wish to deal briefly with the second element of the middle east peace effort. . for the second vital element of the middle east peace effortpromotion of an arabisrael understanding. it is encouraging that the efforts of president habib bourguiba. of tunisia. toward such an understanding have  met with the overwhelming opposition from his brother arabs which had been anticipated. giving indication that the arab leaders. if given the proper opportunity and encouragement. might seek the road to peace. a major criticism of this administration has been its reluctance to be persuasive with the arabs to come to the peace table. a reluctance based on the fear that the arabs would resent the pressure. but. as west germany demonstrated just last year. such fears rest on weak foundations. it will be recalled that the federal republic of germany recognized israel in the face of arab diplomatic threats of the most drastic kind. today german relations with the arab would remain strong and the commerce between them is growing rather than diminishing. the fears proved unfounded. persistent and continuing efforts by the united states for a middle east peace are vital for such continuing efforts are needed to build up public opinionin the middle east itself as well as in the west and the eastwhich will rise in support of finally laying to rest the threat of war in that troubled area of the world. an effective resolution of the longstanding arabisrael quarrel can be brought about overnight or through one single dramatic effort. the climate must be carefully created and world opinion mustered in support. but the united states must lead the way. especially since the united states missed its opportunity when it failed to support the united nations effort of 16 african and latin american nations in january 1962 to bring the middle east disputes to the conference table. that was a bad mess and we should make every effort to make up for it. there is a delicate balance of arms between opposing forces which serves to preserve the peace today in the middle east. two uneasy truces stand threatened by any imbalance of arms. one involves the groups of arab nations supplied on one hand by the soviets--principally syria. iraq. and the united arab republicand those supplied by the united states on the otherchiefly. jordan and saudi arabia. the other uneasy truce involves the arab states versus israel. and in order to avoid a dangerous military imbalance. the united states has sent arms into the area. let us have illusions about israel. we k that its people are valiant but bared flesh can be exposed to modem weapons. israel is in an especially precarious position with regard to the maintenance of a military balance. surrounded by sworn enemies. it can afford to relax its vigilance or permit its strength to be eroded. in addition. as a growing nation which still receives on an average more than 50.000 homeless and impoverished refugees each year. it finds its necessary defense expenditures an emous drain on its overstrained ecoy and a drag on its development. there is question about the fact that it is only the voluntary contribution of the american community which has sustained israel in this dire situation. unquestionably israel has progressed. she is in the strongest rampart we have in the mediterranean. its industrial growth between 1957 and 1964 averaged 10.5 percent annually. second only to that of japan. between 1948. when she attained independence. and 1963. the last time we had reliable figures. its agricultural growth rate has been 9.7 percent annually. surpassing that of other developing countries. and israels hard currency reserves  approximate $700 million. a factor cited by washington ecoists to support their thesis that israel is longer entitled to u.s. ecoic aid. while it is quite true that israels reserves are high in relation to its mal purchasing needs. it is also trueregrettably for israelthat these reserves do  flow from any favorable balance in its international trade. these reserves stem from the sales of israel bonds. which must be repaid. from german restitution and reparations. which are coming to an end and will leave a big hole in israels ecoy. and from u.s. government ecoic help which has been much reduced. andunhappilyisraels balance of trade continues to be adverse. also looming large on the minus side of the ledger is israels foreign currency debt of some $1.2 billion. this is the highest per capita foreign currency debt in the world. israel. therefore. must accumulate reserves to pay off this debt as it comes due. this emous foreign currency debt and the bleak prospects for israels foreign currency reserves argue forcefully for the continuation of u.s. ecoic aid. israel has provenand daily continues to provea true friend and reliable ally at a time when its arab neighbors are extending gestures of friendship to the th vietnamese and to the vietcong. israel. for example. has welcomed for training agriculture and industry future leaders from several score developing nations in africa. asia. and latin america. including burma. bolivia. cambodia. dahomey. ecuador. ethiopia. laos. liberia. nepal. mali. tanganyika. thailand. upper volta. and zanzibar. to name a few. this training is an effective counterbalance to the invitations being issued to these developing countries by red china. the soviet union. and cuba. thus. ecoic aid to israel is a wise and proper investment in furthering our own foreign policy and pays proven dividends in strengthening democracy and a reliance upon democratic institutionsrather than communismin developing nations throughout the world. i most strongly urge that this aid be continued. but if the israeli ecoy is the victim of the arms race. so is the ecoy of the arab states. as i pointed out earlier. the united states does the arabs favor when we collaborate with them in the diversion for weaponry of their limited resources and energies. the arab nations suffer from woefully low standards of living. and food production in egypt. tunisia. and jordan is failing to keep pace with their rapid population growth. it is quite clear that the best ecoic aid we could give to these countriesan effort which demands the best of our energiesis to bring about an end to the costly arms race in the middle east through an understanding with the soviets and to launch a concerted drive to restore a measure of peace and tranquillity to that too long troubled area. i end as i began. by urging upon our government and upon the senate the vital need to do something in the middle east before we are faced with a second front in respect of the conflict which has taken place in vietnam.
 has to rence a power. which congress gave him and which he signed into law. when he negotiates with a foreign country. i have illusions about the fate of this amendment. but i think it is still important to record ones views and arguments in regard to such critical matters as face us. we have cast crucial votes in respect of and in deference to the grave emergency we are faced with.  based on my own views. but i consider this important limitation  less than one as to which. unless we work out a suitable arrangement in the near term on currency realignmentand at the most i guess 120 dayswe will face a serious world recession into which we will be dragged. with all the dire consequences to our society. i think it is that serious. it is in that spirit that these arguments. whatever may be their fate at the hands of the senate. need to be uttered. so that our people and the world will k there are some people who give consideration to these vexing questions which are so deeply controverted in the great public forums of the world.
. the foreign ecoic policy subcommittee recently held hearings on thsouth ecoic issues. with particular attention to the question of debt. at that time i stated that the united states must be very careful in dealing with the debt issues so as  to do more harm than go. the developing~ countries 1inut be come accustomed to the international discipline involved in repaying financial obligations if they are to improve their access to private capital markets and if the international financial markets are to remain healthy. a provision in the international development cooperation act of 1978. of which i am a cosponsor. would. on a casebycase basis. authorize permitting some of the worlds poorest countries to repay principal to the united states on old foreign assistance loans into local currency accounts. from which funds could be expended on development projects approved by the united states. interest payments would be waived in such instances. such a provision would be in conformity with our current policy of extending grantonly assistance to those poorest countries. this provision will certainly be debated. and i will. myself. want to be assured that such an authority should be used and could be used without any harmful effects on those developing countries which  use private capital markets or which hope to do so in the near future. a recent article in the highly respected ecoist addresses this issue. which i would like to submit for printing in the record:
that is correct. if we could have the attention of the senator from maine. senator stevenson is raising the whole issue of the swaps. the currency swaps. and the many other stabilization activities of the stabilization fund as being outside the budget process. i just wanted to call that to the attention of the senator.
