i thank the senator. i realize difficulties arise all the time. if there is some old rule from time immemorial that i have the closing time. perhaps it is time to change the rule. i will speak my piece . and if senator kennedy can get the floor. fine. that will give him a chance to speak. . we  come to what is the end of a long road for the members of the judiciary committee. the inee. myself. and the entire senate. i want to make several points clear. it is  what senator weicker or senator ribicoff want. that is a tradition that i do  believe in. i think the inee should be able to stand on his own feet. i believe he should be subjected to the most intensive investigation. i do  believe in a custom which clearly is  relevant to our times. politically. and these times demand a rebirth of credibility insofar as all of us are concerned in our relations with the citizens of this country. so it is proper that when a man gets appointed to a lifetime job it should be more than a scrap of paper or the sayso of his hometown senators. rather. he should be gone over wlth a fine tooth comb by all the members of this body. as i stated earlier. it should be reviewed by the appropriate agencies of government. specifically the justice department and the enforcement arm which they utilize it in this investigation. the federal bureau of investigation. i believe we continue the traditions established in 1965 when judgeships were brought into the light of day and made the business of the entire country. but the fact is that tom meskill has withstood such scrutiny. reference has been made to the small law cases that he has engaged in. that is going to be so with most lawyers in the state of connecticut. it certainly is going to be so with those who follow a path. a lifes path of government such as most of the members in this chamber. my cases were all small cases. until i made that decision early in life. as did tom meskill. that public service would receive my dedication and my devotion. wouldwe feel any better if. when he came to that fork in the road. if he chose the path of big cases and big fees. is that really what the people of this country want. maybe it is more important that it was  fees and it was  the mal signs of affluenbe that he chose but. rather. service in the public area. god ks. there are big fees from being a state representative. a mayor of new britain. or a general counsel. finally. yes. to the congress and. finally. to the govership. achieving the highest levels available to those of us who chose such paths of public service.
