. i support the lan. guage reported by the appropriations committee with regard to the federal trade commissions scrutiny of professionals. and i oppose the mcclure amendment which would completely exempt professiorlas from ftc scrutiny. each of us here tonight should ask himself the following question: is it in the best interest of the public to create a special class of business per sons. that is. licensed professionals. to be excluded from ftc investigation of violations of antitrust and consumer protection laws. in my opinion it is . i urge each of you to seriously consider the effect of exempting licensed professionals from ftc scrutiny. the ftc would be prohibited from bringing antitrust and consumer protection cases against professionals who engage in outright consumer fraud. price fixing agreements. and coercive prac. tices. the ftc challenged the american medical associations restrictions on advertising. and as a result physlclans are  able to advertise useful information such as their ability to speak different languages. willingness to accept medicare or private insurance as payment in full. office hours. availability to make house calls. and other important information. if pro. fessionals and their ogranizations are exempted from ftc jurisdiction. the ama could once again restrict advertising by its members. an example of the type of activity which the ftc seeks to prevent is clearly evidenced in a ember 26. 1982. issue of american medical news. a publication of the american medical society. in that edition. the chairman of the association of american medical colleges called for tougher accreditation standards as a means of limiting the number of medical students and offsetting the anticipated surplus of physicians in the next decade. a position such as this could be viewed as a violation of antitrust laws. and the ftc could conceivably bring suit. would  all of us like to limit.the supply of people in our professions in order to insure that the demand for our services would always be equal to or greater than our ability to supply them. the ftc has interest in passing judgment on the best standard of medical care in a community. its interest in keeping professionals within its scrutiny is to insure that professional rules do  preclude them from competing in the marketplace. removing federal jurisdiction over an ecoic activity such as the rendering of a professional service is good if it fosters competition. however. it is  good if it fosters a cartel. past experience has shown that the temptation to restrict competition is too great to be iged within a highly trained group of professionals. such as physicians. i urge my colleagues to support the language as it stands and to defeat any effort to substitute language which would allow professionals and their associations to hold the public hostage to their whims.
. i would like to engage my colleague from new hampshire. senator rudman. in a brief discussion about section 3 of the bill that is  before us. which would prohibit the reimportation of u.s.-produced prescription drugs except by the manufacturer of the product or as authorized by the secretary of health and human services for emergency purposes. i wish to clarify that this bill does  affect parallel imports or "gray market" goods. parallel imports are genuine. trademarked articles manufactured abroad and purchased on the world markets by independent american importers. many of these products are sold to american consumers at discounts of 25 to 40 percent less than identical products. often manufactured in the same plants. but imported and sold through different channels at vastly different prices. h.r. 1207 deals with u.s.-manufacturcd products which are reimported. the distribution of gray market goods by independent importers was long been legal in this country and in all the countries which are our major trading partners. in order to clarify the law in this area and maintain the availability of these products for american consumers. i have joined with senator rudman in introducing s. 1097. which would essentially codify the customs regulations and restate what we believe congressional intent was over 50 years ago. this. legislation is currently before the finance committee. i believe it is important to clarify that the bill  before us. h.r. 1207. should  be interpreted to restrain the flow of gray market goods. does my colleague from new hampshire share this concern.
. i rise to referendum beyond the level emitted at the isfy. we are going to have the admin- talk about one thing. time the question wa placed before the existrator of the epa tied up with a first. i want to make a couple of posed community. whole series of burdensome require- comments to answer some of the criti- in other words. so they can polments that could cost all kinds of man- cism of what i consider to be a very lute worse -just because they won the .years to an agency that is already .fine amendment. i might say to my vote. the people in beaumont.. tx. strapped for manpower. colleagues that the idea behind this whostand to havea petroleum refinunder our approach the permits for amendment originally came from the ery plant closed bcause of this legislathese facilities are going to be issued environmental side of the argument. . tion. and. the 2.000 people. and the by responsible state and local govern- . i think the environmental defense other thousands of people who live in ments. it is important to e that a fund first started talking about it be-. the community. who are the exposed program very similar to the one that is cause they think that local people who population. choose to keep the plant included in this air toxic legislation would be affected. to answer the ques- open. that we are going to keep it has already been implemented under tion of the senator from rhode open. that is basically what the the clean water act in connection island. long before we ever got to a amendment says. with the discharge of toxic pollutants referendum. epa will already have de- : before i go further on the.amendinto surface- waters. it is suggested termined who the population that is ment. i want to talk to my colleagues that some gigantic new burden is im- exposed and at risk is. - . about my general analysis of what we posed by this legislation that is totally for us in the senate. to say that we have with respect to this bill. foreign to anything that american in- do .have confidence in those people mr. chafee that just is  so. classic definition of what i call "banks mi. symms. sure.% many of the facilities that will be of the potomac mentality." my defini- mr. chafee. i want to make clear regulated for air toxics are being regu- tion of that is when we think the thitin the legislation we have. it prolated for water pollution :discharges people along the banks of the poto- vides for: a studyinvolving the actual for water. qischarges.. these same in- mac river k what is best for .the person wh0 lives there. in other words. fridtstfes already pay fees to .support. people who live along the banks.of.the . the. plant who .is threatened -ivhth .the.shutdown. because it can meet certain standards. can then request a study involving the actual person. so it is  quite accurate to say in your question that is being presented for the referendum that epa has projected the possibility that an individual born and standing in the fenceline of this plant for 70 years may be subjected to a lifetime cancer risk of greater than 1 in 10.000. that will  be the final situation. so the question you set forth in your legislation. in your amendment. is  an accurate question to pose to the people. because before they get to the situation where the plant will be closed. the plant will have requested this study that i mentioned. and that study will involve the actual person. in other words. you actually find where the -nearest house is. who is living in it. how long they anticipate living there. you deal with actual facts. rather than somebody who has been .standing in the fence line for 70 years.
. i want to congratulate those who offered the "amendment. the senior senator from .oklahoma and the distinguished sena-. tor from minnesota have both been long interested in attention to small business. this is a helpful amendment for small business. it provides for technical assistance. regardless of the amount of the emissions. in other words. if the business qualifies as a small business under the sba definition. then that business is entitled to the technical assistance provided by the epa in meeting these difficult permit standards. so i think it is a good amendment. as modified. it will accomplish the goals. yet. as has been pointed out. it will  denigrate in any way the health standards that are provided for in this legislation. i congratulate both authors of the amendment.
the secretary of hhs has said the administration is willing to discuss a whole series of common points common to the program that the senator introduced. common to the program the republicans ntroduced. common to the program the chairman of the finance committee introduced. i think the senator is familiar with those points of commonalty: insurance market reforms. small group purchasing. reform of medical liability insurance. and so forth. but hing happens. we never get an invitation to sit down. we can perfectly well do it. is it going to solve everything.  but why does  the majority leader convene a meeting as he so ably did when we did the clean air act some 2 years ago.
s -bill. but the leader. it -seems to me. has in that instance attempted to accommodate those in his own party as well as republicans. but let -us look at some .of the other issues that have been less debated and less publicly discussed since the clinton bill was first presented. vestiges of which we still find in the mitchell bill. first. mandatory alliances. a single alliance -setby -the -federal government through which all employers and all individuals must -purchase insurance appears -longer to be part of -this proposal. it -is out. it -appears to be. however. -in -its stead is -a -requirement that al employers with fewer than 500 employees must join a purchasing cooperative and pay any required fees. all employers. with 500 or -less employees. in my state that- is~practically everybody. yes. we have a few employers with over 500. but they are relatively few. the proposal .of senator mitchell appears to accept the -idea that there would be competing -cooperatives. and would allow employees to purchase coverage .outside any cooperative. this sounds good. let ns look a little further. there also is a requirement that the federal government. through the office of personnel management. choose what .one might call a favored cooperative. that is the responsibility of the office of personnel management. all employers of 500 or feweroare required to join that .cooperative. although they can join others llkewase. but you have to join that one and pay -four dues. ppm -is mandated totestablish a cooperative if -there is e in the area. follow this. the end result would .easily be what we sought to avoid. .single alliances in an area set up by opm. thus run by the federal government with all businesses under 500 required to belong.. august 10o 1994t this is one of the things that we objected to and many objected to right in the beginning. second. price controls. under the original proposal. clinton proposed a premium cap above which insurance plans could  charge. that was in the original plan. many of us objected and argued that competitive forces should be used instead to bring the price of insurance down. the proposal before us by the majority leader contains a provision that purports to be a marketbased. costcontainment mechanism. but on closer examination. it looks like the premium cap enforced by a tax. the government sets what it believes is a reasonable premium in each area. the government sets this. and it is indexed to increase -at a fixed amount. and if it exceeds that. then the government imposes a tax on the difference between what the plan charges and this other amount. this is clearly  letting the market forces work. third. the proposal creates new regulations for all health care insurance plans sold in the united states.  just those that are involved in the socalled uniform benefit package. in other words. it says. that a whole new set of federal regulations will apply to a whole series of plans that exist out there. it might be the cancer policy. for example. that would  be involved either. that would  be involved in the uniform benefit package. clearly. we can- see why these new regulations apply to the uniform benefit package. there can be any denial for preexisting conditions. and all the things that we previously discussed in insurance market reform. but this proposal extends all of those rules to the policies that currently exist that someone might want to buy even though those policies receive federal subsidies. we do  understand why you get the government involved in this whole set of new regulations for an area that is working perfectly well . next. the failsafe mechanism that has been touched on already by prior speakers is something that we believe deeply in to make sure that what you are doing does  cost more than the expenditures that would have taken place in the plan before us. we do  believe that it accomplishes that objective. malpractice reform. one objective of health care reform has been to reduce the costs through medical liability reform. the bill before us proposes only modest federal reforms. the proposal requires alternative dispute resolution but still allows the parties to go to court. there are caps on ecoic damages. changes in the statute of limitations. most important of all. the bill appears to preempt tougher state malpractice laws currently on the books in favor of the weaker federal rules. for example. in california. they have enacted substantial medical tort reform. medical liability reform. after hardfought statewide debate. those california rules would all be preempted  by these federal rules by the federal government. in other words. there will be total federal preemption. next is medical education that has been discussed. it was discussed last night by senator packwood and in some detail. i would like to echo my concerns that he voiced. i can understandobviously. there should be inducements for those to go into primary care but for someone to sit here and say x percentage of practitioners .be in primary care and y percentage in the specialties. if one wants to study to be a ophthalmologist. three cheers. it may well turn out that the market forces will work out that he does  have a job. but that is his business. maybe he is going to be the greatest ophthalmologist. but to restrict who can and can take up the various specialties does  seem to me to be a constructive way to proceed. again. we would hope that the market forces would work that way. and as we go more and more into managed care. the market forces in that particular area are going to be stronger and stronger. next. erisa. erisa are the rules that pertain to companies that operate in many states and those that have selfinsurance. many provisions in this proposal before us will have the effect of gutting the erisa preemptions that currently exist and that have worked successfully for the health plans of multistate companies and selfinsured companies. the effect of these changes will be to substantially increase the cost of these plans to employers and to employees. an example is a requirement that these companies be subject to state laws involving socalled risk adjustments. in other words. to paying from one set of plans into aher set of plans. socalled communityrated plans. that is an openended ability of states to impose a new tax on the premiums of these companies. they do  k what it is going to cost. association plans. there currently exists the capacity for businesses. suchas a group of automobile dealers or the local chamber of commerce which may put together a whole series of small businesses in groups. they are formed to purchase insurance. . many of us would like to see these plans grandfathered with slightly modified rules so they can continue to exist. to enact a health care reform bill this year. is it really necessary. as is done in this proposal. to completely revamp even those parts of our existing health system that are currently working. i do  think so. next is the costly new litigation proposal that exists in this plan. it establishes broad new rules that will open state and federal courts to a huge influx of claim disputes. in fact. under this proposal attorneys fees are subsidized for certain individuals bringing suit against the claims decisions made by a health plan. there is question that the plans will simply pay off valid claims. get rid of them solely to avoid the litigation costs. this is hardly cost containment. it is a bonanza for cost. and it is a bonanza for lawyers. general electric has told us that it is their estimate this will add $1 million a year to their health care costs. perhaps some of these ideas have merit. but i do  think any of them are essential to the enactment of health care reform. aher point. after the employer mandate triggers into effect. this legislation prohibits insurance plans from ending an individuals health insurance coverage even if the individual or the group does  pay their premiums. in other words. you can drop them for failing to pay their premiums. that is an unusual provision. so i guess the proposal. the rationale behind it. is they want everybody insured. so you can be insured even though you do  pay your premium. i think it would be a great incentive for people  to pay their premium. but then there is set up a shortfall addon assessment on all insurance payers. that amount is to be used to pay for those deadbeats who do  pay for their insurance. in other words. every insurer or rate payer will pay an additional amount for those who do  pay their premiums. finally. next to last. is community rating. that was discussed last evening by senator packwood. pure community rating. as you k. eliminates any difference between the. amount paid by older americans and those paid by younger americans. this comes in the year. i think it is. 2002. it will inevitably lead. to price increases for younger workers who are  the most wealthy of groups and will force them to drop their coverage. and then. finally. for some reason. a new occupational safety and health program is established under this legislation. i do  quite k why we have to get into that in the. name of health care reform. these are some of the reasons i have concern over the proposal set forth by the majority leader. the mitchell bill. but for the employer mandate. appears to reflect few of the principles that those of us in the mainstream have. those of us who err on the side of less government intervention. more marketplace competition. and effectivecost containment. what does that mean. does that mean that we democrats and republicans can unite on a bipartisan plan that will enjoy broad support. i do  think so. by that i mean. i do  think the negative. i will start that over again. does it mean that we can unite. i believe we can unite. does it make sense for us to try for a bipartisan measure that keeps in mind the two objectives we all say we are for. 1 think if you ask people out here what are they for. they will all say two things: we want to increase the number of amerinans who have health insurance. with our goal of eventually covering -everyone. everybody would agree with that. i think. very few would ndot. second. our objective is to get costs lower for individuals. for companies. for state governments. and for the federal government. cost containmenlt. nearly all of us pay tribute to the:effectiveness zf the marketplace. we al seem to subscribe to the ion of competition. there would be very few people who would get up on the floor of this senate and say. "i dont believe in competition. i aon.t believe in the effectiveness of -he marketplace." we subscribe to the motion of competition. those of us in the mainstream. we are. for the most part. extremely.skeptical .of government intervention. so why can we  unite behinda -bill that incorporates those beliefs. we do  have to achieve everything this year that we would like to. there will be other opportunities to deal with this subject. to aseertain whether we -should do more or less. i and all the other members of the mainstream group want to see good health care -reform enacted this year. we will do all we can to be helpful. we believe it is extremely important to have a bill with broad support. what .am i talking about. seventyfive or eighty votes in favorthat is  an impossibilityather than a measure that sneaks through with 51 or 52 votes. time is -getting short. -but there still remains time to produce -a product that will be of great benefit to millions of americans. what an opportunity- what a wonderful opportunity. so let us  let it slip through our grasp. i thank the distinguished chairman of the committee.
. i thank the senator from washington for those very generous remarks. i appreciate the kind words he said. let me just say that we can go too far wrong if we are doing something right for the future generations of this nation. it is absolutely clear that. if we continue on the present course. trying to fund these entitlements--medicare. medicaid. social security. welfarewithout changes. it is clearly going to bankrupt the nation. you see some projections that estimate an individual will have to pay 80 percent of his or her earnings to the federal government in order to sustain these programs in future years. they are clearly out of control. that is why we try to bring them under control. it is  just us predicting this. it is already happening. and ahead of schedule. as we see with the medicare program. the senator from colorado is here. the senior senator from colorado. i will be delighted to hear his comments.
. i am delighted that the rules committee concurred with proposals to continue the veterans affairs committee as an independent standing committee. i have long believed that veterans. who have given so much. so valiantly. and so well of their country are deserving  only of fair and equitable treatment but also of special attention to the unique reentry. employment. educational. and ecoic problems which plague many veterans. principally those who served in vietnam. to be sure. the emous pressures facing veterans in these difficult ecoic times plague all americans. one need be reminded of the increases in the cost of food. energy. housing. and health care which we all bear. but these problems are exacerbated by the interruptions. inconvenience. and lack of educational attainment which many veterans suffered when they answered the call of service to their country. veterans suffer astonishingly high rates of unemployment and underemployment. as the cost of education skyrockets. veterans who need higher degrees to be competitive in the job market suffer disproportionately due to the family responsibilities which they often must bear even while removing themselves from the job market in pursuit of those degrees. for many wounded veterans. dependent upon the lifeline of veterans administration hospitals and allied services. abolition of this committee might have caused severe disruption of vital services. i believe that retention of the veterans affairs committee will allow us to focus attention on the continuing difficulties which veterans face. and will allow us to marshal all the interdisciplinary skill and analysis which those problems require. i commend the rules committee for their compassion and sensitivity to these continuing needs in its decision to retain the veterans affairs committee.
 of the new jersey pharmaceutical association has been quoted as saying: some drug poisoning is a result of mistaken overdosing. but a great deal of it is like any other household poisoningthe child simply swallows something he has found. i understand that manufacturers of medicines voluntarily have agreed to bottle their products in containers with safety caps which are difficult for children to remove. this. indeed. is a commendable step. but pharmacists recommend that we take the further step of providing a means of keeping all medicines in a locked closet out of childrens reach. most homes do  have such cabinets. although at least five companies manufacture them under a governmentowned patent which is available to all who want to use it. there are two types of devices currently availableone for a sliding door cabinet and one for a swing door cabinet. both were developed from a prototype invented by dr. elbert l. chapman. a retired chief of the public health services division of accident control. who turned the patent over to the government. for the swing door cabinet. there is a threebutton device with the buttons spaced far egh apart so they can be controlled only by an adult hand. for the sliding door cabinet. there is a k device with finger tabs on either side which must be squeezed together while the k is pushed in and revolved. the legislation i am introducing amends eight different laws and applies the same standard to family housing constructed by the department of defense. the agencies which administer these programs already have adopted various standards which must be met. but e of them deal with safety latches on medicine cabinets. in order to obtain a uniform standard for all of the programs. i felt this legislation should be submitted to congress in the form of legislation because congress has a broader responsibility than any individual agency.
. i submit herewith for appropriate reference. two resolutions which are designed to enforce a federal code of ethics as it would apply to members and employees of the senate. a companion resolution is being submitted today in the other body. the house of representatives. by my colleague from new york. representative kenneth b. keating. these measures further implement proposals which we have previously submitted to establish a specific interim code of ethics for legislative and executive officials of the federal government. together with a commission to prepare a definitive code of ethics in government. i am submitting today a resolution to amend the standing rules of the senate. so that a senator may excuse himself from voting on any measure when he determines he has a direct personal or financial interest in the subject matter of the measure.  related to his official duties. the standing rules of the house of representatives already contain a similar provision. if a federal code of ethics such as the one we have already proposed is to be truly effective. following passage. then congress must backstop it with adequate enforcement procedures which are selfdisciplinary in the respective bodies of congressin this body by the committee on rules and administration. and in the other body of the house administration committee. the respective measures submitted by representative keating and myself today provide that the rules and administration committee in the senate. and the committee on house administration in the house of representatives. shall have jurisdiction over cases of alleged violation of federal ethical standards applicable to legislative officials. there should also be some advisory service if the question is a marginal one. therefore. the committees can serve a useful purpose in that respect also. upon the request of any member of congress or of legislative employees. the appropriate committee may give an advisory opinion on the ethical propriety of an individuals proposed conduct. the voters have every right to expect that their representatives in congress will establish for their own guidance and for that of members of the executive branch a code of ethics less exacting than that governing professions such as medicine and the law. and. like the codes of the professions. it should provide means for disciplining violators. through the adoption of the proposed code of ethics and disciplinary procedures. congress will assume a major responsibility of leadership fully in keeping with the supreme importance of its legislative functions. i believe that there should be a standing rule of the senate similar to that already in effect in the house of representativessuch a rule is in force in both houses of the new york state legislaturewhich would give an individual senator an opportunity to forestall possible conflict between his public duties and his direct private interests. personal or pecuniary. if the proposed amendment should be adopted. a senator could disqualify himself from voting. for example. on a private bill involving a claim of a corporation in which he is a substantial stockholder. i see present on the floor the distinguished junior senator from oregon . i feel very strongly that representative keating and i are engaged in a cooperative effort with the senator from oregon. he having initiated what we consider to be very admirable action in this field. i hope very much that through our collective thinking and activities we may produce constructive results. the press states that every once in a while an effort is made to work out a code of ethics. but hing comes of it except some fine speeches on the record. that is odys fault but our own. we had the same experience in the state of new york. withstanding rather dire predictions. we did adopt a code. i had the ho of putting it into effect as attorney general of the state of new york. current events emphasize the necessity for national action along these lines. i again pay tribute to the senator from oregon for his leadership in this field. i hope we shall  be found remiss in our responsibilities.
. i have read the speech of the senator from kansas. although i was  present to hear all of it. i heard a good part of the speech of the senator from kansas. i should like to add my approval to that voiced by the senator from colorado [mr. allotti. for two reasons. first. cuba is  going to sink into the caribbean. it will continue to exist. and its peoplethose who live  and their progenywill continue to exist 90 miles off the shores of the united states. we must give those people some assurance on the question: after communism. then what. the sooner we give them such assurance the sooner it is likely they will get rid of communism. of course we understand that people will  fight for hing. but that they will very definitely fight for something. abstractions on freedom are very difficult to get across to people. although the people of cuba. of all peoples in latin america. should understand it. etheless. it will be tremendously helpful to fortify it with assurances with respect to their ecoic. social. and spiritual future. with special emphasis on the ecoic side. the senator from kansas has suggested a magnificent initiative. the senators speech is probably one of his earliest speeches in the senate. i believe that the senate and the country will be indebted to him for developing such a constructive and intelligent idea. his doing so illustrates that matter how often a subject is discussed. there is still room for ideas. that is something the administration ought to pay some attention to. they should understand that they by means have letters patent on all the good ideas on a subject in terms of our relations with other nations of the world. finally. i congratulate the senator from kansas especially upon the perspicacity which dictated his statement that. just as the loss of cuba to freedom was a disaster. so the regaining of cuba will be a great boon to the free world. as it would have been if the first attempt had succeeded. the senator has given us a magnificent prescription on how to begin.
it is entirely private. by cooperative means. and with the help of the federal government and the state governments. it would bring the cost down to about half of what it is today. if the senator from tennessee will indulge me further. the real problem of the aged today was well stated by the senator from louisiana . it is true that half of the aged. 9 million. have private insurance policies. it is also true. however. that nearly onefourth of that onehalfin other words. about 2 or 3 millionhave adequate private insurance to meet 75 percent of their medical expenses. that is what the american hospital association defines as adequate. the reason is that the premium is out of their range. what we are trying to do is create a system by which the premium can be cut in half. it can be done in the way proposed. it would be an entirely private operation. the only thing the federal government would do would be to facilitate the cooperative means by which the program would be carried on.
