i should like to inquire. for example. why three specific. broad fieldsand probably the most important ones. but only three in the whole area of the healing artwere specifically mentioned in the bill.-namely. medicine. dentistry. and osteopathy. i grant that they are important. however. there are other phases in the area of the healing art which are also important. in this connection it occurs to me that all the emphasis in the entireexpression in this particular subsection is being placed on science. it is being directed at medicine in one form or aher. again. i do  wish to be misunderstood. i do  in any sense wish to convey the idea that these things should  be emphasized. but they should  be emphasized to the exclusion. or almost the exclusion. of the other matters which i have tried to point out this aftern. i am wondering if that verbiage could  possibly be changed in such a way that the bill. which may be an act for considerable time. could  be regarded as a directive by the government to concentrate on science. but rather as applicable eaually to all education. including science and the liberal arts. or the humanities. as expressed in the bill. i think that is the way the approach should be made. so that when the board is established. if it is to be established. its members will  feel impelled. perhaps. to direct their chief attention to the field of science.
. the problem very simply is that man is overburdening his planet. and most particularly the oceans. as one who has worked on the ocean floor with the marine research community. this latest tragedy. further evidence of mans despoiling the environment. really does  come as a surprise. during the past several years. the entire diadema populationsea urchins from south america through the caribbeanhave been wiped out. the situation that has taken place in that part of the world still has  been solved. whales and porpoises wash up on shore. lobsters and crabs have burnspot disease. what this all say is that the only time we become exercised is when our swimming is interrupted. then we understand that maybe we are doing things thatwe should  be doing. all the plant life and all the sea life can die first. but we only become exercised when our vacation is rudely interrupted by our own unfortunate activities. the time has come to understand that we can do to the waters of this world what man is doing. really. what is going on below the surface is probably even more serious than what we see washed up on the shores. with deference to all my colleagues. i suggest that the sooner new york and new jersey stop ocean dumping their sewage sludgeand they are doing so under an exception. a courtordered exceptionthe better it is going to be for everybody. i hope that day comes soon. all the laws are on the books to be enforced. this bill goes that very necessary added step of tracking what is happening to hospital waste so that enforcement can take place. in the final analysis. we must make good on our commitment to the environmentin this case. the waterwe must recognize that it is very fragile indeed. it has lasted for tens of thousands of years. millions of years. and we have to treat it a lot differently from the way we are  treating it. otherwise. it will  even last aher 100 years. i enthusiastically support this legislation. i commend frank lautenberg.
. the bill at hand is a significant achievement for it  only extends for 5 years by titles i and ii the present proven library services and construction act but also adds two important new titles. the new title iii provides funds for the establishment of local. regional. state. or interstate cooperative networks of libraries. it is similar in language to a provision i pioneered in my bill. s. 2944. introduced on february 18 and cosponsored by senators cooper. prouty. and randolph. the new title iv has two parts. part a strengthens state institutional library services for those in such state institutions as prisons. orphanages. hospitals and residential schools for the handicapped. this part is also similar to provisions in my bill. s. 2944. and i am proud to have initiated them. part b of the new title iv provides for library services to the physically handicapped. much credit goes to the distinguished chairman of our committee for his initiation and development of this provision. a provision which will effectively help in turning disabilities into abilities. new light will  shine into the lives of the more than 2 million people who can. because of physical impairment. read ordinary books and periodicals. senator hill. through part b of title iv. has indeed brought new meaning into the lives of those unfortunates. and new hope. this bill h.r. 14050. is a monument to the broad. bipartisan support given the library services and construction program and a tribute to the purposes it serves. the congress may take justifiable pride in its enactment.
. i invite the attention of the senate to a book that deals with one of the most widespread problems facing americans of all ecoic levels. of all ways of life. from all sections of the nationthe problem of drinking. the book. entitled "how to stop problem drinking." written by vincent f. sullivan. offers a 21day plan which can be an inspiration to the estimated 5 million men and women who are either alcoholics or in danger of becoming alcoholics. in a letter to mr. sullivan. who is a former editor of the new york daily news. i wrote: there are clear limits as to what can be done at the governmental level. your book attacks the problem from the personal side. an area where much can beand needs to bedone. it is apparent that only through the combined efforts of public officials. private industry and concerned citizens such as yourself can we launch an effective attack against what medical authorities call "our fourth most serious health problem." i also invite attention to an editorial published in the april 20 issue of the daily news which discusses the importance of this book. in view of the obvious value of giving the widest possible dissemination to methods of combating alcoholism. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
. i thank tract which i submitted to the conferees with the support of the local congressman from that particular area. it is most gratifying that though the amount is small they were willing to entertain consideration of the matter as an element in the negotiations with the house. also i wish to thank the committee for an item which was  in conference but very important to the area. i refer to keeping open the st. albans hospital in queens which involves tens of thousands. of veterans being served there. which was in danger of immediate closing.  we have a chance to save it by getting the va to take it over. or in some other proper way. i wish again to express my appreciation to the committee with respect to fairchild and the a10 program. i wish to name representative roncallo from that area who worked with me in the effort to get favorable consideration in the conference.
well. the evidence is to the contrary. as i say. we have had a law on the books since 1967 in this field. the evidence is cumulative that the law does  cover egh establishments. there are some 14.000 hospital and commercial laboratories. of which only approximately 900 are covered meaningfully. that is why we have this bill. as i have said. i think that. generally speaking. it came out of our committee unanimously. the doctors had more than a full opportunity to testify with respect to it. if they were up in arms about it. i think the senator will agree with me. we certainly would have heard about it loud and clear. it seems to me that the best evidence is the pragmatic situation. we had reason co suppose that there was opposition to such a very simple requirement as that.
