. i wish to address myself to the question of vietnam. i should like to raise some cautionary flags. i support the general principle of what we are trying to do there in foreign aid. but i believe certain points should be carefully looked at by the committee and by the several departments of the executive. i am referring to the commercial or commodity import programcipwhich to date has provided about $1.7 billion for balance of payments and budgetary support to the government of south vietnam. under this bill the cip will benefit very substantially from the $550 million authorized for supporting assistance in each of fiscal years 1967 and 1968. the cip generates counterpart fundsthe title of which rests with the government of south vietnam but which are used under joint agreement of the united states and south vietnam. the fact of the matter is that there is substantial indication which has been developed in testimony before the foreign operations and government information subcommittee of the government operations committee that the united states has lacked sufficient control over these counterpart funds. it is clear that discussions are held between the governments of south vietnam and the united states and annual agreements worked out on the programs to be funded. however. it is unfortunately equally clear that we have lacked the flexibility to modify or shift the use of counterpart funds for these agreedupon programs if they do  work out or if urgent needs develop elsewhere. i believe it is very important that the embassy in saigon have the strongest backing from washington on taking a fair but tough line to insure that these funds actually are used efficiently and for the purposes which the congress and the executive determine essential in the national interest. what we are talking about here is some 25 billion piasters. or $250 million in the coming year. i might add in passing. it is important in these agreements that we take a very hard look at the pressures of inflation and make sure that the relationship of the piaster to the dollar. in spite of the recent devaluation. is  disadvantageous to the united states. in a word. i am hopeful that there will be serious discussions in saigon looking to tightening up this program. which has  always been administratively run with the flexibility or the toughness which was required. in my judgment. secondly. for too long the operation of the port of saigon has been inefficient at best. until january of this year. there were some six south vietnamese departments concerned with its operation. more recently. it has been put under single management and some improvements have been effected. including a substantial improvement in the unloading of tonnage. however. civilian cargo is still unloaded in 8houraday shifts and serious steps are still required to insure truly effective and more honest management of the port. it is estimated that up to 25 percent of some shipments have been improperly handled and in some cases have  reached their proper destinations. it is my hope that major steps will be taken to insure the sound operation of the port including warehousing. to deny opportunity to profiteers. and to see to it that supplies will move to their correct destinations in prompt support of our men in the field and civic and ecoic reconstruction programs of south vietnam. lastly. i think that foreign aid programs in support of civic action and reconstruction in concert with political action teams will only be effective if they are backed by major reforms in south vietnam itself. i have particular reference to the need for major tokenland reform. many in south vietnam would have much great conviction if they owned their own land rather than farming it as tenantsoften to absentee landlords.
. i should like to ask the senator in charge of the bill some questions about the amendment. i might say to him that my reason for the questions is that there are pending some bills to impose a quota system which i consider to be protectionist bills.  only on meat but also on other products. there is quite a big struggle going on in the country about them. i should also like to point out to my colleagues that we complain very bitterly in terms of other countries and many european countries who are  in the meat business particularly. but automobiles. for example. with tariff barriers to trade but they claim a road tax on foreign automobiles in certain european countries. which is quite nettling to us in the united states. in view of the fact that this is an amendment dealing with imports. and that there is this great struggle going on here. i should like to ask the senator from new mexico if he would be kind egh to reply. and the senator from nebraska . also. if he chooses to respond in any way. or to say anything about it to the following questions: all that i want is assurance that this is  a protectionist amendment. but is legitimately designed to implement the provisions of law. as i understand it. the secretary of agriculture today has regulations which are substantially to the same effect as those contained in section 20 of the bill before us. and those that would be reported on under this amendment.
