 of morehouse college in atlanta. ga. he stressed what these grim statistics mean for young black males in the united states of america. . let us turn to what handguns are doing to education. in every state. in my state. the little state of rhode island. we are finding children are bringing handguns to school. we never heard of this before. in our state. we never heard of somebody bringing a gun to school. . they are certainly  bringing a rifle because somebody would see it. they are bringing a handgun. they are bringing handguns because they have access to handguns. listen to this statistic. it is estimated that 135.000 boys bring a gun to school every day. across the educational system of the united states of america. 135.000 boys on any one day are bringing a gun to school. this is a recipe for disastel. it has come to the point where school districts are spending scarce moneys to install s4.000 metal detectors and purchase $150 haidheld wands. and if you have the metal detectors. obviously you have to pay somebody to be there to supervise the equipment. some administrators are wearing bulletproof vests. if you can believe it. the most comprehensive security measures can cover all exigencies. it is impossible. listen to this. in chicago. after a shooting at tilden high school. where metal detectors are used on a random basis. the family of a wounded student is suing the chicago board of education because the metal detectors are  used all the time. the child of those parents was wounded at tilden high school by a handgun. so these handguns are having a disastrous effect on our school systems. indeed. there is formed  an association for security supervisors of schools. who has ever heard of that before. the schools  have their own security supervisors. which is certainly unique. and it is certainly unique to this nation compared to other nations. . let us talk about health care. handguns. as i mentioned. are used in 80 percent of all the homicides that take place and 70 percent of all sutcides. but for every gun death. as bad as the deaths are. the toll from the injuries incurred by handguns is just as bad. for every handgun death. you can figure there are seven gun injuries. the injuries from these guns today are extremely severe. we had a spokesman at the press conference i just held. dr. howard champion. who runs the trauma center in the district of columbia. just a mile away at the washington hospital center. he pointed out that once upon a time there would be a fight. there would be a knifing. and they would bring the individual in and sew him up.  the individual comes in and he or she is either dead or extremely seriously injured with gunshot wounds. frequently ending up as a paraplegic or quadriplegic. who bears the costs of all this. it is  private insurance that these individuals have. they do  have that. the costs are borne by the citizens and taxpayers of the united states of america. the average hospitalization for a gunshot wound costs $13.000. sometimes going as high as onehalf million dollarsand that is just immediate hospital costs. that has hing to do with rehabilitation. if you have somebody with a severe spinal injury. the rehabilitation costs for that individual can run into the millions of dollars. it is estimated--and i think this is on the low side. but it is the best we can getthat handgun wounds. just for acute care in hospitals.  for rehabilitation. in the united states of america costs the taxpayers more than $4 billion a year. there is  a senator. there is  a representative. who is  foursquare for preventive medicine. why are we all for doing something about immunization and vaccinations and seeing that proper prescriptive drugs are available for youngsters when they are born. why are we for keeping mothers healthy during their pregnancy. because we believe in preventive medicine. in keeping the individual well. if anybody is for preventive medicine. they had better sign up for this bill because this bill would 1ban handguns. which are so terribly destructive and so costly for medical care. some people come up to me and say. "this is a radical proposal that you have." this is  a radical proposal. what is taking place in the united states of america is radical. let us take a look at this next chart. here we have gun murders in the united states of about 15.000 a year. what is happening in other countries. lets look at canada. our next door neighbor. how many gun deaths do they have in a year. they have less than 200. less than 200 a year in canada. what about great britain. they have 60 murders a year with guns--60. what about japan. they have 90. and what about australia. they have a wild west tradition. they are macho. in australia. 76 people are killed with guns a year compared to the 15.000 in the united states. what is the difference. the other nations do  allow the proliferation of handguns in those countries as we do in the united states. you can just go in and buy a handgun. it is severely. severely restricted. i think we all followed what took place recently in virginia where. with a great struggle. the gover of virginia succeeded in having passed legislation that said you can only buy one handgun a month. sort of a gunamonth club. that is all you can buy in virginia. this was considered radical. all you can buy is one handgun a month. as opposed to being able to back up your truck and fill it up every day with handguns. they have stopped that.  you can only get 12 a year. 1 a month. well. compare that to these other countries. where you virtually can get handguns at all and therefore you do  have the murder rate. i will say this. -and i believe it strongly. that pretty soon every family in america directly is going to be touched by handgun violence. that does  mean one of your children necessarily. but a cousin. a nephew. an uncle. or somebody in the family is going to be affected by these handguns. what does my bill do. it provides that there shall be manufacture. sale. possession of handguns or handgun ammunition. under my bill. there is a 6month period during which people can turn in their guns and receive the greater of either $25. or whatever the appraised value of the handgun is. after the 6month period. people can still turn in their guns but they will  be paid for them. and after the 6month period. it will be against the law to own a gun--against the law. and there will be a fine and a prison sentence. if it is appropriate to do so. . the only way we are going to get rid of these guns is to take the first step. people will say. well. will criminals have guns and the good people turn them in. perhaps for a while. but we will get them. the first and most important thing is they will  be able to buy any more. and second. eventually they will  be able to get these guns at all. i would like to close with a quote from c.s. lewis as to what kind of role government should play. and what kind of society one wants for america. in this instance. he was speaking about england. but it applies to us. it is easy to think the state has a lot of different (functlons)-military. political. ecoics. and what . but. in a way. things are much simpler than that. the state exists simply to promote and protect the ordinary happiness of human beings in this life. a husband and wife chatting over a fire. a couple of friends having a game of darts in a pub. a man reading a book in his own room or digging in his own gardenthat is what the state is there for. and unless they are helpingin other words. unless the state is helpingto increase and prolong and protect such moments. all laws. parliaments. armies. courts. police. ecoics. etc.. are simply a waste of time. if we are going to live in a safer society than we live in today. we have to get control of thee handguns. this legislation is a big start in that direction. i thank the chair. i thank the majority leader for his patience. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the r1ord.
madam president. 1 month ago. i introduced in the senate my public health and safety act. which is s. 892. what does this bill do. it bans the sale. the manufacture. or the possession in the. united states of america of handguns. i did so for a very simple reason. handguns are literally threatening the very health and safety of our nations citizens. and if we do  do something to get rid of these lethal and allaccessible weapons. handguns. our government will be failing in the most fundamental duty any government has. which is to safeguard the publics welfare. i e my legislation. which is the first such legislation in 15 yearsi had similar legislation last year. prior to that 15year gaphas  been overwhelmed by a slew of senate cosponsors. i believe this fact has less to do with the level of public support and more to. do with the perceived--and i say perceivedpower of the progun lobby. more and more americans are realizing that a handgun ban is  a radical idea. some people say. oh. what a radical idea. it is  radical at all. heavy restrictions. outright bans on handgun ownership are the m. they are just accepted in virtually every other industrialized country. what is truly radical is what is taking place in this country of ours where we in these united states of america allow such easy access to handguns resulting in unheard of carnage that continues unabated day after day. last week lou harris. who is a very respected pollster. released the results of a poll which he conducted for the harvard school of public health. what this poll does is confirm the publics increasing support for handgun control measures. he found that americans are increasingly worried about the situation in america and especially for our young people. less than 30 percent of americans believe that most children. their children. are safe in neighborhood schools and in homes. more than 80 0inted on recycled paper containing 100% post consumer waste percent believe that the problems iffecting children have grown worse. in the judgment of more than 80 percent80 percent. that is a tremendous pluralitymore than 80 percent of those surveyed said that availability of guns and the increase in the number of guns that are bought and sold have contributed to the violence. roughly the same number. 77 percent. feel the young peoples safety is endangered by there being so many handguns around these days. a sizable number. 78 percent. say that concerns over the physical safetyimagine. the physical safetyof children have altered the lives of children. particularly with regard to school. the 78 percent report that children are. more concerned about safety in school than on the way to school. sixty percent of parents report children acting tougher to protect themselves. and onethird of all the parents report that children are actually less eager to go to school every day and are having a harder time paying attention once they get there. and a tremendous factor in all of this is concern for their physical safety. many parents stated that they knew a child who began to carry a gun. or ask for a gun. to protect themselves. yet a full 96 percent96 percent. that is nearly unanimousrejected the view the children would be safer in a physical fight if they had a gun. lou harris found that a significant number of adults have been personally affectedpersonally affectedor k someone who has been affected. by the impact of guns on children: eighteen percent of adults report having had. or king someone who had. a child wounded or killed by aher child with a gun. think of that. nearly 20 percent. onefifth of all of the adults. k someone who had a child wounded or killed by a handgun. thirteen percent report king a child who was wounded or killed by an adult with a gun.  what did . that women have emerged as a major force for passage of tough handgun control measures. and there is every indication that women are ready to translate their concern about guns into votes. lou harris closes with the following quote: these results indicate that the political balance has  shifted on the gun control issues. away from the nra to a progun stance. indeed. the result reported here is based upon a 52to43percent division in favor of a ban on handguns. he concludes: . it seems that the prospect for legislating an end to the sale of handguns is a viable proposition. in sum. the harris poll reveals quite clearly that handgun controls is neither a peripheral issue--it is  something out there that ody cares about--and it is  a radical issue--it is  something that is crazy to even think aboutit is an issue of life and death. americans across this country of ours are realizing this fact and raising their voices for action. because they seeoftentimes firsthandthe destruction and the slaughter caused by the insanely easy access to these weapons which we permit in our country. there are 70 million handguns out there  in circulation. with 2 million being added every year. it is simply a matter of time before every family in america is touched by this violence. and it seems clear from the harris poll that americans are well aware of this. the pollalso shows that the american public is far ahead of its members of congress on this issue. and is increasingly ready to translate its views into votes. that is a sign that politicians. it seems to me. would do well to heed. so i seek support for my measure. s. 892. which bans all handguns except for the police and the military and licensed security personnel. licensed handgun shooting clubs where the weapons are controlled in a central. place. i urge support for s. 892. the public health and safety act. i am pleased to report that senator pell. my colleague from rhodes island. is a cosponsor of this measure with me.
i believe the senate has a right to ask senators like myself who are engaged in the present phase of our debate as to the reason for it. withstanding defeat on two cloture motions. why have we  determined that it is important to debate the issues on the motion to displace the pending business with a new bill. which is. as everyone ks. by means earthshaking in its consequences. i should like to deal with that particular question first. it is a fact that a number of us have felt deeply moved to explain our position to the country. and to take a couple of days to do so. madam president. the struggle has  developed under two headings. first is the use of the filibuster as a weapon and of the means for meeting it. on the part of the senate.  only in the present instance. but also in other situations. whether they involve civil rights measures or other kinds of law. though the present debate has  had the attention which many of us may have wished it had. etheless it is a fact that will be borne in on the country because what is said here has a place in history and in the development of our public affairs. the importance of what has been done here. and its very serious implications to our nation. will. i believe. be borne in. i make the prediction that the events which have occurred here within the past two or three weeks are a part of the major developments which will mark the end of the power of the filibuster over proposed legislation which is very great in this chamber. i believe that second thoughtsand there will be manyas well as the campaign of 1962. in which i have doubt whatever the issue will be raised. and raised very strongly in terms of the individual positions taken by individual senators. will have a material effect upon the reform of rule xxii in order to make it more congenial to the urgent needs of our nation than it is today. individual senators may. as is their right. decide whatever they choose to do about a cloture motion. and whatever criteria they decidc in their minds they wish to use in measuring what ought to be their own positions in the senate chamber. that is entirely right and proper. we must also remember that the question will be out in the area of public debate next august. september. and october. i believe the debate will be salutary and helpful. it may  be quite as easy to explain in august. september. and october what was done here in april and may with respect to the ability of the senate to control its own procedures and at long last to give itself the opportunity to vote. the other point which induces us to discuss this matter in terms of the nation is the necessity of emphasizing the critical importance of action by congress on civil rights. here. madam president. whatever may be said about the record on this side of the aisle on the cloture votesand i am  particularly proud of those votes. especially in view of the fact that the measure which is before the senate is practically taken literally out of the republican national platform of 1960i believe this whole situation also reflects a feeling of unwillingness by the president to come to congress for all of the year 1961 with any proposal on civil rights. withstanding his very strong campaign pledges on that score. when he did at last come to congress with a proposal. he came with a proposal in more than safe areas. to wit. the voting areas. which it is generally agreed deserve attention. and he came with measures which even the most ardent civil rights proponents do  consider as very important. indeed. the only avails. from present indications. which will be shown in this particular field will be a constitutional amendment eliminating poll taxes. which still must run the gamut of approval by the other body and approval by the states. even the house has  yet approved that proposal. madam president. if we are going to ask for something. if we are going to fight for something. we might as well fight for something that is really substantial. i can well understand the attitude  in the senate. "well. if this is all we are fighting about. what is the use of getting all embroiled in that." that is true particularly in view of the arguments that were made. and very sincerely made. i am convinced. even by so distinguished and devoted an advocate of civil rights as the senator from kentucky . with respect to the constitutionality of the measure which was before the senate. i am convinced it is a constitutional measure. but those of us on this side of the aisle were etheless under the embarrassment of fighting about things which were  of prime importance. the second lesson which the civil rights forces must learn from this debate is that if we are going to have civil rights legislation enacted in congress. let us make it civil rights legislation which is meaningful. if we are going to be defeated. we might as well be defeated on something that is really important and significant.  on something which does  have the first rank in that regard. it seems to me that that is much more conducive to getting the case to the country and much more conducive to the dignity of congress. what is significant in this field. madam president. for one. there are some very crying needs in this country. let us take one of them. let us consider public school desegregation. which is proceeding at a snails pace. and which in many states is  getting anywhere at all. largely because the attorney general is  starting any suits in that area. that situation has been shoved aside. yet it is the most burning issue of all in this field. in order to enact effective legislation in that area. we would have to enact what is considered properly. i believe. the most meaningful civil rights legislation of any. it consists of giving authority to the attorney general to start a suit in any representative civil rights case which in his judgment he should start. i refer to an original suit in the case of public school desegregation. there is question about the constitutionality of that type of enactment. such a provision in the voting field has been fully sustained very recently in the raines case. in which the supreme court sustained the constitutionality of the 1957 civil rights act. as a matter of fact. this very technique is incorporated in both the 1957 and 1960 acts. which have so far withstood the test of constitutionality. here is an accepted technique which is entirely within the text of american practice. that very same technique was adopted by congress in legislation in this field in the last 5 years. with question of constitutionality successfully raised about it. and is considered by civil rights advocates as the most important single piece of legislation in the whole field. i feel. and i shall act accordingly. that if we are going to have any civil rights legislation. we should have enacted the measure i have described. which is called part iii. senators who favor civil rights legislation had better dedicate themselves to fighting for that measure as the prime. significant measure which is worthy of action in this field. there are other measures far more appealing. if  more important. i refer to the field of hospitals. funds may still be made available. under the hillburton act. for hospital construction where separate but equal facilities are maintainedthat is. separate facilities for negroes and whites. in the field of hospital construction and in the medical training field we find a situation which is riddled with a continuation of segregation. so. madam president. we have many instances brought up in this chamber itself. here is a very clear case for the administration to do something. yet the administration is doing hing about it. instead. it has proceededeven though without success so farin the perfectly safe area of voting. aher measure that commends itself very highly is the putting of a statutory base under the committee relating to government contracts. we have  heard the administration doing or saying anything about that. there has been some controversy over the question whether it is getting anywhere through the maintenance of contracting officers and contracting agencies. i believe that vice president johnson and the people who are on that job are trying. but. madam president. i feel that is the very least area in which there should be discrimination. namely. employment opportunity where government money is involved. congress should back that up with a statutory base which will give it much more authority and power. and the administration should ask for it. again. here is aher important measure in a field which is   being touched in terms of legislation. there are other measures. such as requiring school desegregation plans to be filed and giving technical assistance to school districts seeking to desegregate. and the whole complex of discrimination in employment on account of race. creed. or color. quite apart from government employment itself. that is the essence of the matter. i should like to repeat the two points i am making. which are the whole reason. as i see it. for our undertaking the debate on a motion to displace a piece of proposed legislation. by the votes which counted. the cloture votes. rather than the vote that i think did  count for nearly so much. the vote on the motion to table. the senate has very clearly indicated it is  particularly interested in passing the measure at this session of congress. getting down to the two points: first. this is the opening skirmish in the effort which will be consummated next january. and which the country should debate and consider as the major issue of the 1962 political campaign. namely. the revision of rule xxii. the senate must be enabled to deal with a filibuster. which today either throttles or emasculates proposed legislation. certainly in the civil rights field. and in many other fields as well. and is certainly  the will of the majority. the second point: if we expect to deal with civil rights legislation. this experience teaches that we had better deal with important. meaningful civil rights legislation. and  get fouled up and bogged down on matters which are just as complicated and difficult. and which. even if we can get them called up. are  nearly so consequential in the whole civil rights struggle as those which i have mentionedand i feel certain i have by means exhausted the list. if the country becomes aware of extended debate. and by the mere presentation of the case through the attention which our speeches get. and through the activities of organizations in this and related fields. through the mal debate of political controversy. then i think a very useful purpose will have been served in the senate. but there is question in my mind that the results which we have seen on this subject would be very different if the country were aroused. the answer is that matter how deeply i feel or other senators may feel about this question. both in moral and in constitutional terms. and in other terms. matter how we feel about the very hardheaded and deleterious impact of these votes upon our position in the world. in terms of our ability to command the alliances and allegiances which are indispensable to success in the struggle for freedomwhatever i and some others may think about that. the fact is that the american people have  been too conscious of the situation and have  been sufficiently exercised so that their representatives in congress may feel the impact and act in a definitive way. until they do. in the manner of our society. there is very little likelihood that anything really tangible or important will actually happen. so. since this is to be the campaign season. when all these issues are debated and discussed.  is the time when this question should be brought up and the country brought to focus upon it. it is amazing to many of us who are active in this field how we can. with such complacency. almost blindness. accept the existing situation in this field. it is frequently said that societies get ice if they would only pay attention to conditions. we have already had. for a number of years. scenes of violence in this field. people have been hurt. communities have been brought to a condition of great disorder. the mal life of communities has been paralyzed. schools in virginia still remain closed to this very day to avoid the desegregation decision of the supreme court of the united states. there have been questionable practices under our laws. whether violations of the laws or  is for aher day and aher argument. in many ways. those practices involve what might be called. under one particular heading. tacit resistance with deep feelings involved. there have been charges of great violenceeven killingsunder the general umbrella of the strains and tensions created by the relations between the races. we have seen inhumane practices develop. like the shipment of negroes by the white citizens council of new orleans to new york and other places. a movement which failed. of course. and came to hing. but which was quite indicative of the low degree to which practices could sink in such a very serious and dangerous situation. this condition will  be cured or helped by letting it stand still or by doing hing about it or by  providing some opportunity for redress in law. all human history demonstrates that all such action does is to exacerbate and ultimately consume in its own fury. without in any way challenging the sincere views deeply held by some senators. who say. "just let things alone. and we will take care of them." i deeply feel that we are running tremendous national risks in this situation. because of our failure to act: by foot dragging in respect of civil rights legislation can prove to be extremely dangerous and highly expensive in national terms. we are dealing with highly explosive problems affecting emous masses of people. ten percent of the population of the united states is comprised of negroes alone. many of our big cities. like the city of new york. have extremely large populations which are negro. it is estimated that there are 1 million negroes in new york city alone.. naturally. the people of the city of new york welcome them as fine citizens. we are trying to work with them. and they with us. but let us remember that a dangerous situation exists in our society. about which we must be solicitous and wary. etheless. it is thoughti do  k how. i do  k by what scheme or ideathat if we let the problem alone and do  do anything about it. it will disappear. go away. or work itself out. or that millions of people will migrate out of the south to other places in the united states. of course. they have their problems too. as we all k. this is really an ostrichlike attitude. i have yet to hear from some of the members of this body who have great intellectual power. who contend very strongly against measures such as i am recommending today. and i await with great interest their comments. what is their prescription for the dynamism and the drive which is apparent in the country today. and the unwillingness to accept conditions which our friends may feel are quite satisfactory. in social terms. to their communities. but which apparently are unsatisfactory to a tremendous number of people in those communities. i respectfully submit that it is begging the question to say that if the question were  discussed. those people would  get these ideas. where do the savages in the forests of africa get these ideas. where do all other people who are today demanding selfdetermination. freedom. equal opportunity. and personal dignity get such ideas. they get them because the ideas are abroad in the world. and the people will  be stopped by the fact that we refuse to discuss or act upon them in the u.s. senate. on the contrary. we will run a great national danger if we do  heed the problem. we will exacerbate relations between people in our own country to an exceedingly dangerous degree. we can. any more than we can stop the tide. fail to deal with these subjects. indeed. the breaking of the old matrixes in the south itself is a pretty clear indication that we can stand still. so long as we can stand still. we had better take some control over events ourselves. before they take control over us. it is for those reasons that those of us who think as i do have made this presentation on the floor of the senate. withstanding the fact that. as we all understand only too well. the actual debate upon this question in terms of any hopeful development and in respect of getting the bill passed is probably behind us. while we are on that subject. let us understand that ody is kidding anybody about the votes on the literacy bill. the cloture votes represented a killing of the measure which is before the senate. in my opinion. that will be developed whenever the matter becomes an issue. that does  mean that senators who voted that way are right or wrong. it merely means that this is the issue. that it can be confused by the fact that senators thought there ought to have been more time for debate. or do  like the idea of having clotures anyhow. or that they may feel the country should be further enlightened on this question. et cetera. the payoff is that when the second cloture vote was taken. the leadership took it for what it meant. without any questionin other words. that it meant the killing of the pending billand immediately moved to displace it with other business. i do  think it is an answer. either. to say that the filibuster was a leisurely one. i think that even if the filibuster had been conducted in a very hurried fashion. the result would have been the same. the question is. what was the sentiment of the senate. the necessary sentiment of the senate was lacking. and for that. there is only one answer: debate in the country and an aroused public opinion. i believe it also very important. for those who believe as i do. to make a summation on the proposition that the bill is both necessary and constitutional. madam president. i am disturbed by the challenge to the constitutionality of the bill. i believe it is constitutional. and i would  wish to let the matter go as it  stands without making my own concluding arguments in regard to its constitutionality. i respect some of the opinion to the effect that the bill is unconstitutional. so i should like to say a few words on that score. it seems to me that one of the most interesting aspects of the question of constitutionality was developed in quite a peripheral case. and i should like to call the attention of the senate to the garner case. 368 u.s. 157a fairly recent casein which . that is just one casea typical case. among the negroes that mr. lynd rejected for alleged failure to read or interpret a section of the state constitution were five college graduates. one of whom had been awarded a national science foundation scholarship to cornell. that was the caliber of applicant for registration mr. lynd refused to register. let us take aher case. because these are all very interesting and very important. i have a letter from a family in alabama. apparently one member of this family had been a voter in new york and therefore ks me. when the wife and the family went to register. the registrar demanded that she produce her marriage certificate and the birth certificate of her first child. these were  questions on the application form or in any way required to be answered. but she had to answer them. in view of the fact that she would  do it. she was  registered. and the people who write me say they do  plan to go to court because they do  think it is right to spend a lot of money to obtain one of the basic american rights. the right to vote. i have a telegram which came to me just yesterday. which i would like to read into the record. it is addressed to me. signed by roy wilkins. executive director of the national association for the advancement of the colored people. and reads as follows: we sent the following telegram may 11 to senators sam j. erviw. jr.. and b. everetr jordan. of th carolina: "our office was informed by our state secretary in th carolina that the secretary of the central cape fear branch of the i962 naacp has reported that negro applicants to register and vote in bladen county are being required by registration officials to read the entire state constitution in order to qualify. in view of the opposition to the literacy test bill in the senate and the vehement assertions that such tests should be left to the states we inquire whether the reported requirement in bladen county. n.c.. is regarded by you and other opponents of the senate bill as a reasonable and fair test for eligibility of a citizen to vote and as acceptable evidence that the federal government should  set an objective standard for socalled literacy test for voters.
