. today i introduce the underground storage tank compliance act of 2001. this legislation will bring all underground storage tanks. usts. into compliance with federal law and finish the work begun seventeen years ago with enactment of the ust provisions of the solid waste disposal act. the legislation will emphasize leak prevention and compliance with existing statutes. in addition. this bipartisan bill will assist communities in coping with the contamination of groundwater and oil by methl tertiary butyl ether. mtbe. in 1984. congress enacted as.subtitle i of the solid waste disposal act a comprehensive program to address the problem of leaking underground storage tanks. with the goal of protecting the nations groundwater from leaking tanks. the 1984 law imposed minimum federal requirements for leak detection and prevention standards for usts. in 1988. owners and operators of existing underground storage tank systems were given a tenyear window to upgrade. replace. or close tanks that didnt meet minimum federal requirements for spill. overfill. and corrosion protection. as the deadline passed on december 22. .1988. many underground storage tanks failed to meet the federal standards. to assess the situation. senator smith of new hampshire and i commissioned the u.s. general accounting office. gao. to examine compliance of usts with federal requirements. gao concluded in may 2001 that only 89 percent of tanks were meeting federal equipment standards. in addition. it also discovered that only 71 percent were being operated and maintained properly. gao cited infrequent tank inspections and limited funding among the contributing factors. communities across the nation have borne the brunt of our failure to prevent tank releases. gasoline and fuel additives. such as mtbe. have contaminated groundwater and rendered it undrinkable. the village of pascoag. ri is just one community that has suffered from mtbe contamination that can be traced to leaking underground storage tanks. for months. residents of pascoag have been unable to use the water supply for drinking. bathing. or cooking. hundreds of thousands of dollars are being spent to dilute the water with a neighboring communities supply. to install water filtration systems. and to bring new wells online. additional money will be spent to remediate the contaminatiqn and to take enforcement action against the owners of the leaking tanks. unfortunately. this is  an isolated incident. a similar story can be told in countless communities from new hampshire. to new york. to california. to address these issues. the legislation that i introduce today. together with senators carper. smith of new hampshire. jeffords. and inhofe. requires the inspection of all tanks every two years and increases federal emphasis on the training tank operators. it simply does  make sense to install modern. protective equipment if the people who operate them do so improperly. enforcement of existing requirements. rather than creating new requirements. is an important element of our bill. in addition. the legislation emphasizes compliance of tanks owned by federal. state. and local governments. and provides $200 million for cleanup of sites contaminated by mtbe. finally. the legislation provides increased funding to carry out the program. which the gao has identified as critical to the success of the ust program. since its inception in 1984. the ust program has been largely successful. more than one million outdated tanks have successfully been closed or removed. and countless cleanups have been undertaken. we have come a long way. but we must go further. our legislation will build upon the successes of yesterday. so that we may enjoy the successes of tomorrow. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues to move this important bipartisan legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. for the information of all senators. this morning the senate will resume consideration of s. 14. the energy bill. the graham amendment relating to the outer continental shelf is currently pending. under a previous agreement. there will be up to 90 minutes of debate prior to the vote on or in relation to the amendment. therefore. the first vote will occur at approximately 11 a.m. in addition to the graham amendment. the senate will consider other amendments to the energy bill. and members should expect rollcall votes throughout the day. it is also possible that the senate will be able to consider the faa reauthorization later today. we will ify members if that becomes available. also. the senate may consider additional inations on the executive calendar. we will be working to schedule votes on the inations that can be cleared.
. it did  come t6 that. last year. the rhode island department of environmental management removed more than 300 gallons of diesel fuel and other fluids from the machinery. the excavator itself was finally taken away this summer by the army corps via a temporary land bridge. as part of the wetland restoration project that i mentioned earlier.9
. today i ho michael creasey for his work as the executive director of the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. for the last 10 years. michael has been a driving force in the blackstone valley. completing projects. building advocacy and partnerships. and instilling pride in the people who live beside this historic river. michael has devoted his career to public service and national park stewardship since 1986. after honing his skills in utah and new mexico. he was assigned to the blackstone corridor in 1995 as deputy director and became the executive director in 1999. what a gift he has been. his boundless energy and devotion to the blackstone corridor. and his skill in working with the corridor commission and its large group of stakeholders. have spawned a revitalization that includes the creation of new jobs. the preservation and enhancement of historic sites. and the restoration of valuable wildlife habitat. in april 2000. shortly after i came to the senate. michael took me on a tour of the valley to point out some of the federal and private sector investments that had been made in the heritage corridor. i could  help but be impressed with his energy and passion as we viewed the blackstone river bikewayor riverway. as he has dubbed it--along with refiovated mills. a ca and boat landing. and parks that have been developed since the authorization of the blackstone heritage corridor in 1986. the progress i observed that day was a result of collaboration among the residents of the valley. state agencies and the federal government. and is proof that industrial rivers like the blackstone can be saved if we all work together. above all else. michael is a "river guy" who understands the significance of the "power of place" and the potential of people to shape their communities. in a recent news article anncing his appointment as superintendent of the lowell national historical park. he states. "its been a great ho to serve the corridor commission for nearly a decade. i have always been impressed with the passion. creative ideas and commitment that the people have had for achieving the heritage corridor vision." the blackstone river valley heritage corridor i8 a unique institution that has brought together many divergent groups and. raised the national profile of this very special. region. i thank michael for his years of service to this historic slice of massachusetts and rhode island. and i also wish him luck in his new endeavors in lowell.*
. today i introduce the underground storage tank compliance act of 2001. this legislation will bring all underground storage tanks. usts. into compliance with federal law and finish the work begun seventeen years ago with enactment of the ust provisions of the solid waste disposal act. the legislation will emphasize leak prevention and compliance with existing statutes. in addition. this bipartisan bill will assist communities in coping with the contamination of groundwater and oil by methl tertiary butyl ether. mtbe. in 1984. congress enacted as.subtitle i of the solid waste disposal act a comprehensive program to address the problem of leaking underground storage tanks. with the goal of protecting the nations groundwater from leaking tanks. the 1984 law imposed minimum federal requirements for leak detection and prevention standards for usts. in 1988. owners and operators of existing underground storage tank systems were given a tenyear window to upgrade. replace. or close tanks that didnt meet minimum federal requirements for spill. overfill. and corrosion protection. as the deadline passed on december 22. .1988. many underground storage tanks failed to meet the federal standards. to assess the situation. senator smith of new hampshire and i commissioned the u.s. general accounting office. gao. to examine compliance of usts with federal requirements. gao concluded in may 2001 that only 89 percent of tanks were meeting federal equipment standards. in addition. it also discovered that only 71 percent were being operated and maintained properly. gao cited infrequent tank inspections and limited funding among the contributing factors. communities across the nation have borne the brunt of our failure to prevent tank releases. gasoline and fuel additives. such as mtbe. have contaminated groundwater and rendered it undrinkable. the village of pascoag. ri is just one community that has suffered from mtbe contamination that can be traced to leaking underground storage tanks. for months. residents of pascoag have been unable to use the water supply for drinking. bathing. or cooking. hundreds of thousands of dollars are being spent to dilute the water with a neighboring communities supply. to install water filtration systems. and to bring new wells online. additional money will be spent to remediate the contaminatiqn and to take enforcement action against the owners of the leaking tanks. unfortunately. this is  an isolated incident. a similar story can be told in countless communities from new hampshire. to new york. to california. to address these issues. the legislation that i introduce today. together with senators carper. smith of new hampshire. jeffords. and inhofe. requires the inspection of all tanks every two years and increases federal emphasis on the training tank operators. it simply does  make sense to install modern. protective equipment if the people who operate them do so improperly. enforcement of existing requirements. rather than creating new requirements. is an important element of our bill. in addition. the legislation emphasizes compliance of tanks owned by federal. state. and local governments. and provides $200 million for cleanup of sites contaminated by mtbe. finally. the legislation provides increased funding to carry out the program. which the gao has identified as critical to the success of the ust program. since its inception in 1984. the ust program has been largely successful. more than one million outdated tanks have successfully been closed or removed. and countless cleanups have been undertaken. we have come a long way. but we must go further. our legislation will build upon the successes of yesterday. so that we may enjoy the successes of tomorrow. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues to move this important bipartisan legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. for the information of all senators. this morning the senate will resume consideration of s. 14. the energy bill. the graham amendment relating to the outer continental shelf is currently pending. under a previous agreement. there will be up to 90 minutes of debate prior to the vote on or in relation to the amendment. therefore. the first vote will occur at approximately 11 a.m. in addition to the graham amendment. the senate will consider other amendments to the energy bill. and members should expect rollcall votes throughout the day. it is also possible that the senate will be able to consider the faa reauthorization later today. we will ify members if that becomes available. also. the senate may consider additional inations on the executive calendar. we will be working to schedule votes on the inations that can be cleared.
. it did  come t6 that. last year. the rhode island department of environmental management removed more than 300 gallons of diesel fuel and other fluids from the machinery. the excavator itself was finally taken away this summer by the army corps via a temporary land bridge. as part of the wetland restoration project that i mentioned earlier.9
. today i ho michael creasey for his work as the executive director of the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. for the last 10 years. michael has been a driving force in the blackstone valley. completing projects. building advocacy and partnerships. and instilling pride in the people who live beside this historic river. michael has devoted his career to public service and national park stewardship since 1986. after honing his skills in utah and new mexico. he was assigned to the blackstone corridor in 1995 as deputy director and became the executive director in 1999. what a gift he has been. his boundless energy and devotion to the blackstone corridor. and his skill in working with the corridor commission and its large group of stakeholders. have spawned a revitalization that includes the creation of new jobs. the preservation and enhancement of historic sites. and the restoration of valuable wildlife habitat. in april 2000. shortly after i came to the senate. michael took me on a tour of the valley to point out some of the federal and private sector investments that had been made in the heritage corridor. i could  help but be impressed with his energy and passion as we viewed the blackstone river bikewayor riverway. as he has dubbed it--along with refiovated mills. a ca and boat landing. and parks that have been developed since the authorization of the blackstone heritage corridor in 1986. the progress i observed that day was a result of collaboration among the residents of the valley. state agencies and the federal government. and is proof that industrial rivers like the blackstone can be saved if we all work together. above all else. michael is a "river guy" who understands the significance of the "power of place" and the potential of people to shape their communities. in a recent news article anncing his appointment as superintendent of the lowell national historical park. he states. "its been a great ho to serve the corridor commission for nearly a decade. i have always been impressed with the passion. creative ideas and commitment that the people have had for achieving the heritage corridor vision." the blackstone river valley heritage corridor i8 a unique institution that has brought together many divergent groups and. raised the national profile of this very special. region. i thank michael for his years of service to this historic slice of massachusetts and rhode island. and i also wish him luck in his new endeavors in lowell.*
yes. i think all of us hailed his action. but i think we all recognize. and i am sure our distinguished colleague. the gentleman from massachusetts. would recognize. that even further relief is needed. and i think. if he will join with me in urging complete elimination of residual oil import restrictions would give the further relief that is needed.
. i am happy to join my colleagues today in congratulating ed foreman on his recent designation as 1 of the 10 outstanding young men in america by the u.s. junior chambefof commerce. congressman foreman has made an outstanding impression in his first term in the house and his forthrightness and energy command our respect. i k that this fine award augurs well for eds future.
. i would like to associate myself with the remarks of my colleague from alabama. the distinguished and scholarly chairman of the subcommittee on interamerican affairs of the house foreign affairs committee. he has added intelligence and energy to our deliberations on our relations with latin america and i have benefited from his counsel on numerous occasions. this year we mark pan american day in a spirit of disciplined optimism. the spirit of cooperation which is the essence of panamericanism has reached a high level of development and sophistication. the partnership between the nations of the western hemisphere which is essential to meaningful progress is symbolized by the establishment of the new :7817 interamerican committee on the a1liance for progress. ciap. the decision made at sio paulo last fall to create this committee emphasizes the multilateral nature of the alliance. among the eight members of the committee are seven from latin america and one permanent representative from the united states. ciap promises that responsible voices of latin america will be heard more clearly and more forcefully in the councils of the alliance. ciap is charged with the responsibility of reviewing the financial needs of the 20 member countries under the alliance for progress and of recommending to the various lending agencies and financial institutions priorities for the assignment of funds. in addition. the committee is to review the machinery of the alliance and recommend methods to improve public understanding and increase public support for its goals. we should  delude ourselves into believing that the mere formation of ciap will solve our hemispheric problems. the magnitude and variety of our needs requires years of dedication and wisdom. but the formation of ciap and its emphasis on partnership and mutual consultation augurs well for the future. pan american day gives us an opportunity to reaffirm our willingness and determination to work together with our latin american friends in the creation of a world that will provide dignity for the humble and freedom for all. the western hemisphere has a proud heritage of liberty. it is our joint responsibility and challenge to give it meaning in the 20th century.
. the power failure that affected a number of our midatlantic states yesterday reminds us once again of our failure to prepare adequately for these emergencies. fortunately. this failure did  take place at night with all the added inconvenience and danger of the ember 1965 blackout. but we can be complacent. power officials have indicated that we may be in for more of these blackouts. or "browts" in the coming months when electric systems will be strained by the use of air conditioning and related equipment. last year i introduced legislation calling for a special study by the office of emergency planning of the effects of serious interruptions of essential public services and recommendations for legislative or administrative action to minimize them. action was taken on the measure. if the ember 1965 emergency is receding in our memory. the blackout here in the theast yesterday has refreshed our recollection sharply. i am again introducing legislation calling for an oep study. with a reporting date of july 31 of this year. i urge immediate action.
. it is with profound ho. although also with a deep sense of regret. that i join my colleagues today to express my appreciation to boyd crawford for his years of dedicated and able service as staff administrator to the committee on foreign affairs. after over three decades of outstanding service to the committee. to the congress and to the nation in the study of foreign affairs and the preparation for congressional consideration of relevant policies and programs. boyd is leaving the committee staff. as one who has served but 8 years on the committee. i can attestindeed. with some sense of humilityto the vast contribution he has made to our deliberations and our efforts. it is without reservation. however. and with great pride and gratitude that i ackledge the vast experience. the competence. the devotion. and the tremendous energy with which he has performed these tasks. from the handling of complex and critical legislation before the committee. to providing the preparatory work for and participating in the numerous international meetings and conferences which have taken place over the years. there are few men who can claim such a record of long and distinguished service as that of boyd crawfords. the list of delegations and missions on which he has served and worked is lengthy indeed. and as one who has taken part in a number of these. i k how great boyds contribution has been to their success and what an important part he has played in insuring an effective u.s. role. boyd crawford is one of the most decent and able men i have been privileged to k. he holds the respect and friendship of all those who have had the opportunity to seek his counsel and benefit from his wisdom and skill. i consider myself fortunate to have been able to work so closely with him over the past years. and i wish him and mrs. crawford the greatest happiness and contentment in the many years that will follow his retirement tomorrow.
i have already indicated that i do  consider that a typical example of the problem with which we are  dealing. we must recognize that we have such a problem. i do  think anyone will deny it. but. according to my judgment. we have  in the pending amendment found the solution by which tomeet that problem. for instance. in the coal industry the amendment would do little or good at all. and certainly the coal industry is a great deal more fundamental and more basic in this country than is steel.
i do  think the senator from louisiana by his remarks would indicate. by implication. that the great bulk of the stock of the general electric co.. which has its main plant in the state of new york. is owned by new yorkers.
. my absence was  of my own will. for more than 6 years. 3 successive congresses have been considering various bills providing for the development of additional hydroelectric power at niagara falls. n. y. the need for this additional power in the western part of new york state and adjacent areas in other theastern states is acute. this issue has been thoroughly studied in the senate committee on public works and in the house of representatives. however. it has  previously oome to the floor of the senate. therefore. i believe that i. as the senior senator from the state of new york. should review the history of this important matter and my reasons for being opposed most strenuously to senate bill 1823. the development of hydroelectric power at niagara falls. n. y.. began before the turn of the century. private power companies undertook at that time the construction of the first largescale hydroelectric power development in the united states. the niagara mohawk power co. and its predecessors have served the niagara frontier ever since. therefore. the development of additional hydroelectric power from the waters of the niagara river can be considered a new project. to this extent. it is comparable to the additional development of hydroelectric power on the coosa river. in alabama. which the 83d congress authorized the alabama power co. to undertake. if niagara falls were  one of the wonders of the world and if the niagara river were  an international boundary. it is likely that the congress long ago would have reached the same conclusion that the 83d congress reached with respect to the coosa river. in 1950 the dominion of canada and the united states entered into a treaty providing for the development of additional hydroelectric power on both sides of the niagara river. at niagara falls. at that time. the only group in new york state qualified to develop the power was an organization of private utility companies under the leadership of the niagara mohawk power co.. which had already developed such power successfully at niagara falls. when the 1950 treaty came before the senate. a reservation to the ratification of the treaty. providing that the congress should decide who would develop the power on the american side of niagara falls. was adopted. that is the only reason why we are still considering the question of niagara power today. one of the agencies of the new york state government is the new york state power authority. it was created many years ago for the sole purpose of developing power in the st. lawrence river. 200- miles away from niagara falls. only in 1951. when the government of new york state sought a way of preventing federal development of the niagara project. was the state power authoritys scope expanded to include niagara falls. after the new york legislature had amended the state power authority act to that end. representative w. sterling cole and i sponsored proposed legislation which would have permitted the new york state power authority to undertake the american portion of the niagara power development authorized by the treaty of 1950 with canada. i introduced proposed legislation of this nature in both the 82d and 83d congresses. for several reasons. first. i was unalterably opposed. as i am . to federal development. second. my proposed legislation was consistent with the laws of the state of new york. as well as with the public policy of both the republican and democratic parties of the state of new york. as established for more than 20 years. and. third. i had great confidence in the administration of the state of new york at that time. and i believed that development of niagara power by the state would  endanger the existing privately owned. integrated syztem which well serves more than 95 percent of the people in the state. action was taken by the 82d congress. during the 83d congress. the house of representatives passed. by a vote of 262 to 121. a bill which would authorize development of the niagara project by private enterprise. after extensive hearings the senate committee on public works reported favorably a bill which would have referred the entire matter to the federal power commission. for determination. the issue would have gone to the federal power commission originally. except for the treaty reservation. this bill. was reported to the senate just prior to the adjournment of the 83d congress. and action was taken. the situation today is approximately the same as it was in 1950. the advocates of public power  endorse state development. but would require the inclusion of preferences to municipalities and rural electric cooperatives. these preferences would be inconsistent with the laws of the state of new york. the advocates of private development are still adamant. and so a hopeless congressional deadlock continues. the people of new york state have grown weary of this situation and rightly demand action. i am unalterably opposed to senate bill 1823. i am opposed to it because it is in direct conflict with the law and policy of new york state. second. it would discriminate against over 95 percent of the residents of new york state by granting a preference to the few isolated cooperatives and municipally operated powerplants scattered throughout the state. third every segment of the ecoy of new york is opposed to it. including labor. agriculture. business. and the overwhelming majority of consumers in the affected area. the history of this particular bill is most interesting. in the 83d congress. when it became obvious that sufficient support for federal development was lacking. my colleague from new york joined with former representative franklin d. roosevelt. jr.. to introduce bills substantially the same as s. 1823. they clearly preferred federal development. but if that were impossible. they would settle for state developmentbut on their own terms. this proposed legislation. having failed in the 83d congress. was introduced again in the present congress. the attorney general of the state of new york stated publicly in a document addressed to members of the congress. under date of february 13. 1956. that there is grave doubt whether the new york state power authority could proceed with construction if senate bill 1823 were enacted. that the preference provisions contained in it are inconsistent with the state law. under which the power authority must proceed. the present chairman of the power authority and his predecessor have testified time and again before the committees of the congress against the preference provisions embodied in s. 1823. thus. on march 13. 1954. the hoable robert moses. chairman of the new york state power authority. said: the lehmanroosevelt bill (s. 2966. 83d cong.) provides for a license to the new york state power authority but with conditions and preferences  incorporated in the state law. and never approved by our state legislature. such legislation by congress would represent an unwarranted interference by the federal government in state affairs. senate bill 2966 in the last congress was similar to senate bill 1823  before the senate. again. as indicated in the hearings before the senate public works committee.  of the power authority made the following statement with respect to both the development of hydroelectric power on the st. lawrence. which is already underway. and the proposed development of niagara power: it has been suggested that the federal license for the st. lawrence and the federal law to be passed with respect to the niagara should require that preference be given to municipally owned distributing and producing organizations and to cooperatives. this appears to be impractical because 98 percent of the consumers in the state receive their power from private utilities and only 2 percent from municipally owned utilities and cooperatives. these 2 percent can be given an absolute preference over the 98 percent because they are scattered all over the state. many of them hundreds of miles from the site where the power is produced. so that the cost of transmission would be prohibitive. these observations by mr. moses are wholly consistent with my own views on this important matterand are based upon his personal experience. is it any wonder under these circumstances that an overwhelming majority of the people in the area to be served are vigorously opposed to s. 1823 and have expressed clearly a desire that niagara power be developed by private enterprise. statewide organizations including every segment of the ecoy have continually urged successive congresses to oppose similar legislation and approve private development. among these organizations are the following: the new york state federation of labor. the independent brotherhood of electrical workers. the cio utility workers of america. the new york state farm bureau federation. the new york state grange. the empire state chamber of commerce. the association of towns in the state of new york. the association of county supervisors in the state of new york. and the associated industries in the state of new york. in this connection. because it is so pertinent. let me say that only the other day i received a letter which i should like to read into the record. it came to me from mr. harold c. haer. secretarytreasurer of the new york state federation of labor. the letter is dated april 26. 1956. and reads as follows:
i should like to ask the senator from connecticut if he does  appreciate the fact. as he undoubtedly does. that the two organizations to whom he has referred. the organization of town officials and county supervisors. represent more than do any other groups the rural population of the state of new york. the rural population is supposed to get electric power. under the new york state law. as soon as they can. because the new york law provides that preference shall be given to domestic and rural consumers. consequently. i would say their attitude toward the whole idea of public power development reflects the sentiment of the rural population of new york state. i happen to live in that area of the state of new york. and i want to point out that there is question in my mind that upstate new yorki am  speaking of new york cityis overwhelmingly opposed to any proposal such as is embraced in the bill which is  before the senate.
i wanted to point out a few errors of interpretation which have been made by my worthy colleague from oklahoma . yesterday in my remarks. i pointed out very definitely the statements of the chairman of the state power authority. the fact that he has made contradictory remarks should in way invalidate other statements he made. some of which were in the very anncement to which the senator from oklahoma has referred. the opinion of the attorney general of the state of new york still stands. that the bill. if enacted. would  be workable. so far as the state of new york is concerned. i pointed that out. the senator from oklahoma also referred to the recommendation of gover harriman. gover harriman recognizes. and he recognized during the session of the new york state legislature. that if the bill is to be workable in the state of new york. we will have to change our power authority act in the state. so he requested the new york state legislature to do so. as follows: i recommend that your hoable bodies enact legislation at this session which will enable the power authority to construct transmission lines and to require the authority in its sale of power to give preference to state agencies. municipalities. and other subdivisions of the state. and to rural electric cooperatives. the legislature refused to act on that recommendation. unless such action is taken. the result will be that the bill. if it should be enacted. will never work in the state of new york. at least  until the state law is changed. 
. on behalf of my colleague. the junior senator from new york . and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for the construction of a hydroelectric power project at niagara falls. n. y.. by the power authority of the state of new york. an identical bill is being introduced in the house of representatives by representative william e. miller. of new york. i ask unanimous consent that a statement on the bill prepared by senator javits. representative miller. and myself be printed at this point in the record. as a part of my remarks. together with the text of the bill.
 eisenhower in 1953 he was a special envoy to the near east with the rank of ambassadorhe developed the johnston plan for the joint use of the jordan river basin. in principle and on the equities it was largely agreed to. it foundered more on the political planethan on the fairness of the plan to the several riparian nations. it is my hope that one day all the nations in the area will see the overall merits of the johnston plan and work to implement itrather than expend energy in attacking it. finally. i would like to extend the condolences of this house and myself to mrs. johnston and to the family. and to say that truly america has lost one of its finest citizens and warmest advocates. [from the new york (n.y.) times. aug. 23. 1963]
 of the jackson purchase rural electric cooperative with headquarters at paducah. ky. we are most appreciative of the opportunity to appear before you today. i am accompanied by all of my fellow board members. c. h. arnett. r. l. bailey. louis bradley. willard carneal. stanley jones. 0. w. stagner. harvey sanders. j. e. wilkins. our general counsel. julian carroll. and joe swidler. who has been acquainted with our problem for about as many years as we have been working on it. and by hobart adams. the cooperatives general manager. i should like to introduce mr. adams at this time to present our testimony to the committee. mr. adams. senator cooper. mr. adams. i would like very much if the members of the board of this cooperative. and counsel. will stand. so that their presence can be more clearly ed.
. i rise to support the amendment proposed by the distinguished gentleman from new york (mr. dow) to reduce by onehalf the authorization of $180.5 million for the development of the liquid metal fast breeder reactorslm7fbr. all responsible people realize that we must conduct extensive research and development programs to produce the new techogies to meet the growing energy needs of our nation. i believe that the energy problem facing us is one of our major national priorities. it demands that basic decisions be made far in advance of requirements. it demands also that these decisions be made on the basis of thorough exploration of all alternatives and sober evaluation of the benefits and consequences of each. above all. we must  allow ourselves to be stampeded into a precipitous rush to develop one alternative at the expense of all others. especially in light of the very serious questions as to the consequences of that alternative for the safety and health  only of this generation but of future generations as well. h.r. 14990 does  provide for the kind of balanced exploration of alternatives that is needed. quite the contrary. it would devote a totally disproportionate share of the development effort to the livifbr. it would provide funding for this controversial program at levels far in excess of those for any other energy .option. the effect of this is to decide the issue long before we have the facts as to which option would be most effective and safest. environmental action. one of the groups concerned over the implications of this program. has prepared an analysis of some of the more promising alterna tives and.the .government funding for research and development on each. i insert this .revealing document in the record:
. i rise with concern tonight over what i believe is a very serious matter in this countryan energy shortage which in my view has reached critical proportions. clearly. we must do all we can to provide adequate supplies of oil to meet this crisis.  only do we need approximately 65 new refineries in the country. but also we need a strong national policywhich as of the present does  exist. due at least in part to a failure of this and perhaps other administration to foresee and recognize inevitable energy shortagesto provide a massive research and development effort aiming at selfsufficiency by the early 1980s. as a sponsor of legislation introduced in the other body by senator jackson which would authorize such a program. i fully recognize the need for developing new resources and acting rapidly to deal with this energy shortage. the bill we have before us tonight. however. does little to solve or even alleviate the energy crisis in the state of new york. the pipeline route through alaska. whose oil is then to be shipped south along the west coast. is  adequately scheduled to be transported to eastern marketsand even if it is transported to the east. it will doubt be at a substantially higher cost to consumers. finally. there are adequate environmental safeguards in this legislation. and in my view. this is  the time to start gutting the most important environmental legislation we have on the books. this pipeline bill simply declares that the pipeline is in compliance with the requirements of the national environmental protection actnepaand furthermore bars further judicial review of the alaska pipeline under nepa. such a waiver of nepa would  only set a most dangerous precedent which would destroy the effectiveness of nepa. since clearly section 203 could make nepa inapplicable. but it also could cripple the courts in the environmental area. in sum. although i strongly believe we must develop the alaskan th slope. i believe it can be developed in a way far more advantageous to the consumers of new york state and in a far more environmentally sound manner. which does  jeopardize the strength or effectiveness of present laws which protect our lands. our seas. and our wildlife. i. therefore. will vote against passage of the bill.
. a considerable degree of attention has been focused on the problems of aircraft se abatement within the past year. culminating in the international conference of the reduction of se and disturbances caused by civil aircraft. held at the lancaster house. london. england. ember 22 to 30. the plans for the ember 1966 conference originated when  of the acoustical standards board of bolt. beranek & newman. and author of a recent article in scientific american entitled "se." which appears at the end of this statement. as follows: when an airplane moves faster than the speed of sound. it produces shock waves that trail in the wake of the plane like the disturbances in the water wake of a rapidly moving boat. the shock waves generate a pressure wave that constitutes the sonic boom. on the ground a typical sonic boom from a highflying airplane represents a series of rapid changes in air pressure lasting half a second: the pressure suddenly rises .by as much as two pounds per square foot. then drops below atmospheric pressure by about the same amount and finally jumps back to mal pressure. the se of the boom usually consists of two closely spaced. explosive reports. the sonicboom "wake" behind the airplane. fanning out in the shape of a cone. spans an area on the earth below that depends on the height at which the plane is flying. typically the path of the boom on the ground is about 33 miles wide when the plane is at an altitude of three and a half miles and 50 miles wide when it is flying at a height of nine miles. the higher the plane ffies. the weaker is the intensity of the boom at the ground.  that it is clear that boeing co. will be involved in the airframe design and general electric co. with the engine of the sst. i am most interested in the role that se control will play in the present and future research and planning of the sst. i am pleased to see that research will continue before actual construction. and hopeful that among the items to be studied will be a way to prevent the effects of sonic boom. for an evaluation of the effects of sonic boom on our society. i have included at the end of this statement a summary of an address by bo lundberg. director general of the aeronautical research institute of sweden. entitled "the menace of the sonic boom to society and civil aviation." presented at the fourth international congress for se abatement held in baden baden. germany. may 1966. incidentally. robert alex baron. a constituent of mine and an ardent proponent for se control. also attended the fourth international congress. a copy of his address appears in the daily pages a2629 and a2630. in my original statement in the congressional record. volume 112. part 7. pages 8745 through 8768. i set forth a detailed discussion of se. in addition. i have included supporting papers and articles of interest to the student of se. as well as a representation of the worldwide written response i have received on this subject. my additional statements and supporting papers and materials apume 112. part 7. pages 9470 to 9477. volume 112. part 8. page 9679. the daily pages a2629 and a2630. the congressional record. volume 112. part 9. pages 12191 to 12205. the daily congressional record of august 1. 1966. pages a4048 and 4049. the congressional record. volume 112. part 14. pages 18233 to 18257. volume 112. part 15. page 20388. volume 112. part 20. pages 27803 to 27824. and volume 112. part 20. page 27874. favorable comment by the senior senator from the state of washington. hon. warren g. magnuson. on my various statements appeared in the congressional record of january 17. 1967 at page 614. in connection with his discussion of the subject of the electric vehicle development act and its contribution to the fight on air and se pollution. the subcommittee on transportation and aeronautics of the house interstate and foreign commerce committee held a 1day hearing on october 12. 1966. to consider bills dealing specifically with jet aircraft se control. including my legislation. h.r. 17252. a copy of my statement to the subcommittee appears 112. part 20. page 27803. i am today also reintroducing h.r. 17252. my aircraft se control bill. the subcommittee on transportation and aeronautics hearing last october was a very small step toward a program for the solution of the overall problem of se reduction and control. if there is one lesson that we should have learned from the current crisis of air pollution it is that if proper educational and remedial steps in that area had been taken 10 years ago the problem of air pollution might  have reached the critical proportions it has today. we are  at the same relative point with respect to the environmental problem of se pollution. we must act sensibly and take precautionary steps  so that in the future we will  be faced with a costly dilemma that will cause us an undeterminable amount of bodily harm. i strongly urge the congress to face its responsibility  with respect to adequate se control. there follows an uptodate accumulations of pertinent articles. including those referred to in my statement above. as well as supporting papers. editorials. and general response to the problem of se abatement: [prom engineer magazine. autumn 1966]
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate had passed a bill and a joint .resolution of the following titles. in which the concurrence of the house is requested: s. 36. an act to authorize appropriations to the energy research and development administration in accordance with section 261 of the atomic energy act of 1954. as amended. section 305 of the energy reorganization act of 1974. and section 16 of the federal nuclear energy research and development act of 1974. and for other pur-. poses. and s. j. res. 44. joint resolution to authorize the printing and binding of an edition of senate procedure and providing the same shall be subject to copyright by the author.
well. 2 percent. or whatever it is. and. therefore. am i further correct that this could well work out that an impoverished person who is less than 62 has his electric rates go up to pay for the president of general motors who is over 62 who gets this benefit. is that correct.
well. first of all. i think we have to define what we are talking about here. i think when the senator says when 50 percent of the people sign the cards that that means that 50 percent of them want a union to represent them he. in fact. is making a mistake. in election after election they have had over 50 percent of the people sign the cards. and in election after election the union has been roundly defeated. i think you k and i k that the whole purpose of the secret ballot and the reason why the proposal in the house was rejected even by the most ardent prolabor people was that if you get 55 percent of the people to sign cards you do  even bother to have an election. as. perhaps. the senator will recall. that was presented by chairman thompson and was part of the original labor packagedont waste time with all these elections. if you have 55 percent of the people sign then obviously over half of the people want the union. so you save the time and trouble and energy of election and just certify the union. well. we k that time and time again where elections have been held you have had as high as 70 percent of the people sign cards and. indeed. they have come in with way less than that. i am fresh from an election right in our home state where the electric boat division of general dynamics received the required number of signatures. over 50 percent. for a plant of some 8.000 people and when the dust settled they got 34 percent of the vote. this is  atypical. this is rather typical. so to say that there is problem. get on with the election when people have signed these cards. they sign them underi do  want to say duress. and i do  think it is duressbut when somebody comes to you and asks you to sign school committee ination papers for x. y. or your neighbor. you are going to sign them. you are  the kind of fellow who is  going to sign ination petitions for somebody. you are a fine fellow. go ahead. but that does  mean you are going to vote for him. this is the situation we have here. ody wants to turn down the union organizer who comes and says. "will you sign." of course. i will sign. it does  mean i will vote for it.
on behalf of the miity we are prepared to accept the study to go further into the problem that the senator from nebraska testified about before our committee. the problems he pointed to in his home state and the problem with these long coal hauling trains.
. this goes to the point i was making earlier about the exemptions that we opened the gate. way to in the committee when we exempted the oil and gas industry for the muds and brines that resulted from their drilling. however. in that act. as i mentioned earlier. a study was to take place and. at the conclusion of the study if congress wishes to put the oil and gas waste muds back under the act. congress must act. this is different in that this does  exempt ash. slagwaste. bottom ash waste and various wastes from coal from the act. instead it provides for study. there is definite time limit for the study. as i see the amendment. is that  correct. it just says the epa is to conduct the study and within 6 months after the study come forward with their conclusions.
. the provisions of this bill follow the recommendations found in "energy future." the report of the energy project at the harvard business school. it has the backing of the solar lobby. american wind energy association. and national society of professional engineers. most importantly of all. enactment of our proposal will indicate that as a nation. we are committed to kicking our petroleum habit by making the necessary investment in conservation and renewable energy sources. there is better time than  to reaffirm our commitment to energy security for the future. i urge my colleagues to join as cosponsors of our bill designed to do just that.a
it seems to me there would be a large inclination--correct me if i am wrongfor the producer to say. "forget the well that is  doing very well. and concentrate on the ones that are producing the large amounts. that i can easily kick up into the higher brackets. that is. at the 1 percent. 2 percent. or 3 percent. and there is where i am going to get my money." yet in the overall energy picture. there is  the production we would like to see. the owner says to himself. "i am  interested in that upper tier production from these declining wells that are  going to do much. i will concentrate on the ones that will give me the world price." i wonder if the senator from oklahoma would be good egh to help me on that.
. the senate very shortly will vote on the conference agreement on s. 932. the omnibus energy security act of 1980. this farreaching proposal would create a u.s. synthetic fuels industry to reduce our dependence on insecure foreign oil supplies. fund major new renewable energy initiatives. set up a $3 billion loan program to spur energy conservation and solar energy plus bring on line a number of other major initiatives to boost u.s. security. as cochairman of the environmental study conference. i submit for the record an excellent and timely analysis of the final agreement prepared by the conference. since the conference report has  yet been filed. this esc update should prove valuable to senators in understanding the final language. to further explain the legislation. esc is sponsoring a briefing for senate staff this friday. june 20. at 2 p.m. in ef100 of the capitol. a similar session for house staff is set for monday. june 23. 10:30 a.m. in 340 can. the analysis follows:
i will agree that general morris goes on to talk about what he believes will be the cost to terminate the contracts and he then gets into speculation as to how much the land could be sold for if the project were terminated. but i am talking about the sums that are obligated and the sums that have actually been spent. let us take the obligated sums. based on the $2 billion cost of the project. 43 percent is obligated. and based on the $3 billion cost of the ultimate project. and we all k that that is what is going to comei k that the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee talks. on page 3 of that hearing. about. "i dont expect that" the ultimate project "will be done under the present recalcitrance" of the senate in approving water projects. well. i do  share his views on the present recalcitrance of the senate on water projects. yesterday we accepted aher mammoth water project in west virginia for. i think. a price tag of $284 million. so i have  seen any recalcitrance on the part of the u.s. senate or the appropriations committee when it comes to dealing with water projects. if you take the $3 billion open cost. the amount that has been obligated is 29 percent. let us  have any figures bandied about about 70 percent. with the initial waterway project totaling 232 miles and the cost of that being $1.9 billion. tenntom turns out to be $9 million a mile. or $5.000 a yard. when initially proposed in 1946. the tenntom projects estimated cost was $120 million. in 1970 it tripled to $323 million. in 1979 it became an astounding $1.9 billion. this year the cost the corps estimates. the ultimate costi k there will be debate over the ultimate costwill be $3 billion. the initial project estimated to cost $2 billion would link the tennessee river to demopolis via the tombigbee river. barge traffic using this part of the project would still face a 217 mile journey down the river to the port of mobile before the vast majority of project benefits could be achieved. the problem is that the portion of the river south of demopolis. the tombigbee. is very convoluted. it has been aptly called more crooked than a barrel of snakes. i urge everybody to go down and take a look at it. fly over it. i have placed on everyones desk some photographs. this is with the material i submitted dealing with the editorials from a whole series of newspapers. here is a critical editorial of the project by the atlanta constitution. there is one here from the raleigh news observer. it is a whole series of crucial editorials. including one from the fort myers. fla.. news press. with that material. in the back i have attached some pictures of the lower tombigbee. that is. pictures of the tombigbee from demopolis south. these are from the corps of engineers. with their projected canal cutoffs. that is. the cutoffs across the loops of the convoluted tombigbee. i would urge everybody to take a look at these so they get a pretty good idea of what a really twisting. winding river that is. this brings us to the ultimate project. in order to accommodate better the traffic which the corps predicts will develop on the project th of demopolis. the corps has indicated it will need to spend over $500 million to straighten out the river south of. demopolis. and aher $500 million on the expansion of two locks which lie on that part of the river. thus. the ultimate project. which includes this work on the tombigbee river between demopolis and mobile going south. in addition to the work between demopolis th to the tennessee. will total in excess of $3 billion.  all of these costs are meant to be incurred by the federal government. in fact. the local share is presently $165 million for bridges and other relocations. i saw those relocations.  only of highways but of the railroad. but as of 1979. local sponsors in mississippi and alabama had together committed only $23 million to the project. and the federal government had spent $100 million of its money on the states local share. this is what you call winning both ways. the astounding cost of the tenntom brings me squarely to the second essential question: will this project produce any significant benefits. i doubt it. fully 90 percent of the tenntom benefits are based on savings to barge traffic predicted to use the completed project. one is suggesting that the project will produce hydropower. one is suggesting it is going to be used for flood control. less than 10 percent of its benefits are based on area redevelopment. it is therefore vital that the navigation benefit projections are accurate. in other words. that the predictions are right. i have reviewed many of these navigation benefit claims and have been astounded by what i have learned. it would appear that a very significant part of these navigation benefits are based squarely on companies that do  exist or on movements that will  take place. for example. fully 60 percent of the initial year navigation benefits are based upon predicted coal movements. yet. nearly half of those movements are impossible because they are based on existent companies. existent coal mines. or existent coal traffic. an interview in the st. petersburg times with spokesmen of the companies involved reported that the corps projects that the gulf power co. will ship nearly 3 million tons of coal from harriman. tenn.. and shawneetown. ill.. to power plants in florida during 1987. the projects first year of operation. however. officials of gulf power say they will ship coal whatsoever on the waterway. it has also been reported that the corps estimates the kentucky energy development corp. will ship 2.4 million tons of coal via the tenntom. however. kentucky energy development corp. is out of business and the coal mine relied upon by the corps has never been in existence. the corps also lists hawley fuel co. of new york as a coal shipper to the tune of 1.5 million tons a year. however. hawley fuel owns mines anywhere in alabama. it has plans to use the waterway. we called up hawley fuel yesterday to check and that was the answer they gave us. in addition to these major ecoic questions about the tenntom project. grave environmental problems have been raised by this waterway. thousands of acres of wetland have already been destroyed. and i think it is extremely sad that that has taken place. that is where the spoil disposal from the waterway is dumped. in the wetlands. thereby ruining fertile lands that previously supported precious animal and plant life. .
. that is what we are asking in this amendment: hold everything. let us go behind the figures and see what is there.  either the coal shipments are going to be made or the plants are there or they are  there. and if. for example. as dr. carroll charges that the alabama powerplant at greene county does  have the existing capacity  do they have any plans in the future for the coalburning capacity as alleged by the kearney report. then that should be very clear. it is either yes or  and let us find it out.
i would like to ask a question of the senator from arkansas. this does  give the veto power to the energy committee on these wild and scenic rivers. but it only requires that the respective house and senate committees be given 60 days ice. it does  change the law as far as the present proceeding in the designation of these rivers pursuant to consultations with govers and the regular procedure set forth in current law. am i correct.
. energy conservation is especially important in new england because this region is heavily dependent upon imported oil. while we consider inative solutions for the futuresuch as conversion of utilities to coal and greater use of hydroelectric powerwe must do all we can to promote conservation. the bill we introduce today will help the industrial sector of our ecoy reduce energy consumption and retain important jobs.o by mr. hatch (for himself and mr. tihurmond):
. the bill i introduce today is similar in several respects to bills introduced in previous years to establish an energy corporation of the theast (enco. i will continue to support the encoidea. as well as others which provide longterm solutions to our energy problems. in my view. establishing a new england power planning and distribution authority will be a costeffective way to help lower energy prices and maintain stable supplies. i urge my colleagues to join in support of this bill. i request unanimous consent that a copy of the bill be printed in the record as introduced.
i thank the senator from wyoming for his kind remarks and i assure him that as i have taken a strong interest in the resolution here before us i likewise will be anxious to participate in the finance committee deliberations on the senators bill and on other issues relating in general to the existing structure of energy conservation and alternative energy production tax incentives.
i am grateful for the comments of the distinguished senior senator from west virginia about who is collecting where. when we debated this in 1977 1 made it very clear that those who are entitled to black lung payments shouold receive black lung payments. there is argument over that. but the trouble is thant this program has become a compensation program for the dangers that are inherent in coal mining. if we want to recognize that. let its do it. let us say this is an cxtremnely dangerous occupation. that coal miners die from a whole series of accidents. and wve in congress feel there should be some type of compensation for the widowvs and orphans of those who so die. let us recognize that. i do  minid that. let us proceed down that path. but let us  say we are going. to provide universal compensation for everyone associated with the coal business under the guise of saying they have black lung disease or that someone associated in their family has. thant is what this program has become. as illustrated by the fact tilat if one dies from an accident in the mine after serving x number of years. his widow is entitled to black lung payments when there is causal connection whatsoever with black lung disease.  we are in this deep trouble. so we are extending the payments. the levy. as was pointed out by the senior senator from wisconsin. to strip mining which s ]."a 19 deceilber 16. 1981* is all associated with black lung. block lung comes from those who arc in tte deep mines.  from those who are in strip mining. it seems to me this is the classic case of a program that has gotten out of control. and it was recognized at the time it would get out of control. i am  here to say we told you so. but an awful lot of senators (lid stand up at thle time and say this is exactly what would happen. i am anxious to hear what the junior senator from utah will say in connection with the reforms that hie will present. thank you. .
. i recognize that there is a juggernaut assembled herewe have the administration. we have the industry. we have the unions. that is a formidable frontline. i always worry. when you see an alliance like that. how the public is making out in the deal. i think one of the benefits. one of the reasons. as i understood from the brief description that the distinguished senator gave is that coal mine operators aire able to transfer some of their obligation. is that correct. are they getting out of something here.
 reagan annced that hewould  seek legislation to speed the decontrol of natural gas. i believe that this was a wise decision. and i praised him for it. however. i am concerned that those who continue to favor accelerated decontrol will try to achieve that objec. tive through administrative rulemaking by the federal energy regulatory commission. that is why i believe that we in the congress must let the administration and the federal energy regulatory commission k that we oppose accelerated decontrol through administrative rulemaking. i urge my colleagues to support this resolution.e
. the next subject is with regard to medicare and medicaid. i must say that i was very disappointed with the result of the conference. when i voted for the senate resolution. which provided for combined cuts in these two programs of $4.7 billion. there was an exception. and i might say. and i k the chairman recalls. a very strong expectation in the senate that the house .would pass a level of cuts in these two programs much less than that provided in the senate resolution. this expectation was much discussed on the senate floor. and i engaged in a colloquy with the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. the senior senator from kansas. in this regard. as that colloquy indicated. there was an exception that house cuts would be in the area of $2 billion. and there was thus the expectation that a housesenate compromise would be in the area of $3.5 billion. i expressed the view at that time that even that level of cuts would be very hard to achieve without affecting beneficiaries adversely. the conference. report provides for combined medicare/medicaid cuts of $3.8 billion with an additional $510 million expected to be obtained by administrative savings within the power of the administration to achieve without legislation. this is a very high figure. it seems to me. i wish to serve ice that. as a member of the finance committee. i am going to be very diligent. very watchful about the nature of the cuts we make and make every effort to protect the beneficiaries. finally. with regard to the lowincome energy assistance and weatherization programs. i would appreciate the chairmans guidance about the effects of the conference report on these two programs. namely. the lowincome energy assistance and weatherization programs.
. my legislation would ensure that consumers are  asked to pay for electrical generating facilities they may never need. basically it does  alter the underlying cwip policy that ferc had in effect before march 10. the bill would permit cwip to be collected for pollution control facilities and fuel conversions. if a utility is in severe financial distress it may receive cwip relief. unlike the old rule. however. this bill offers an objective standard of determining whether a utility is in financial distress. specifically. a utility will have to show that it has insufficient earnings to issue debt to initiate or construct a plant. a utility will also have to demonstrate that it has pursued other means of meeting its cash needs. including encouraging use of leastcost energy alternatives and seeking inative financing methods fur its projects. if a utilitys severe financial condition is attributable to mismanagement then the utility must also demonstrate that such mismanagement has been corrected. if the ferc decides that these steps outlined above will  enable the utility to regain financial stability. then the commission could order an appropriate amount of cwip relief. instead of allowing blanket approval of cwip as exists under the rule of march 10. my legislation will insure that ferc exercise its regulatory authority properly by making a casebycase determination of each utilitys application for cwip. i am hopeful that this bill will enjoy broad support and i urge my colleagues to join me in moving this legislation forward. and ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. recently i joined with senator stevens in sponsoring s. 800. the ocean and coastal development impact assistance act. as we continue to pursue the development of offshore oil and gas resources to insure plentiful energy supplies for the future. it is extremely important that we take steps to protect coastal and marine areas and support state efforts to mitigate the consequences of offshore energy activities. an accelerated program to explore and develop the potential oil and gas resources of the outer continental shelf is  underway. at the same time. budget constraints have jeopardized federal support for many worthwhile coastal protection programs. this legislation is a timely and comprehensive effort to strengthen the partnership between states and the federal government in preserving precious natural resources. it recognizes that coastal states must take steps to deal with the consequences of ocs energy development  being encouraged by the federal government. it establishes an ocean and coastal resource management and development fund. supported by a small percentage of revenues derived from ocs oil and gas leasing. and allocates these funds to coastal states. onethird of a states allocation is to be managed by local communities. this support will enable states and localities to carry out important coastal development research. education. and planning activities. state and local governments are best suited to assess the environmental and ecoic effects which continued ocs development will exert upon coastal regions. and to plan for the effective future management of these regions. the legislations formula for the allocation of funding correctly takes into account factors such as a states proximity to leased area. the presence of coastal energy facilities. length of coastline and amount of oil and gas produced off state shores. in addition. the formula rewards states which have federally approved coastal zone management programs in place. state and local governments have expressed strong support for this legislation and have recently been joined by several distinguished environmental organizations such as friends of the earth and the natural resources defense council. few investments could be more crucial for our nation than preserving coastal habitats and protecting marine resources. this investment is particularly important to the state of rhode island. where our coastline is a vital ecoic and recreational asset. the prospect of intensified ocs development activities poses a tremendous challenge for communities in rhode island and other states to prepare for changing land use patterns and the effects of commercial growth in coastal sections. the coastal energy impact. fisheries research and coastal zone management programs which have assisted states in these endeavors have in recent years been threatened by federal budget constraints. 8. 800 would provide a more secure source of funding for these programs and would also guarantee the continuation of activities under the national sea grant college program which. through the university of rhode island and other institutions. has provided outstanding research. education and advisory services in marine resources. s. 800 is a. unique opportunity to insure a future balance between offshore oil and gas development and the sound management and conservation of our nations coastal resources. i urge my colleagues to support its enactment.
 i wish to say to the distinguished majority leader that would be fine by me. yes. i  only consent to it. i am enthusiastic about it. and furthermore it would be with the provision that i would be recognized when the senate resumes consideration. could i ask the majority lerider where would we be tomorrow. let us say that we go to the natural gas bill . that would be the majority leaders intent. when we come in tolmorow. what would happen.
. i commend the senator from maine who has been a longtime leader in this effort and who has been the person chiefly responsible for the enactment of these energy credits. just a couple words. if i might. on who they go to. these energy credits go under the figures we received from the treasury department. 73 percent of them go to those people who are earning under $40.000. and i think that is important. furthermore. the bulk of the money goes for storm doors and windows and insulation. and as everyone here kn there has been a drastic cutback in the energy assistance program. that is. programs from the federal government that went out to the states to help the states send out money to those in lowincome areas with low incomes to insulate their homes. to provide the storm doors. windows. and so forth. and so to a considerable degree the energy conservation credits have helped take up the slack that has come about because of the decline in the energy assistance program. so i feel strongly that this is a good program. as the senator from maine has pointed out. it has made considerable savings in lowincome assistance. in the consumption of fuel oil. and finally i wish to say that what these credits do is to help people do something they could  otherwise afford. and these would  be done but for the credilts. and that. it seems to me. is the key purpose. it is  a question of they might do it over a long period of time.  they would . absent the credits they would  do it. so i think the senator from maine has a good amendment. and i commend him for it.
. i strongly support the conference report on s. 2463. legislation which i have cosponsored to establish an outer continental shelf revenue sharing program. i very much regrei that the senate has been unable to consider fully and adopt the report. it is certainly one of the most significant pieces of legislation for the protection of our nations coastal and marine resources to emerge from the 98th congress. i want to commend senator stevens for his leadership in sponsoring this measure. i was pleased that house and senate conferees achieved this responsible compromise. the sharing of revenues with affected states has been an integral component of most federal lands management activities. through the mineral lands leasing act of 1920. 50 percent of the receipts from the leasing of federal mineralbearing lands are shared with the state in which those lands are situated. s. 2463 recognizes that federal offshore activities entail significant consequences for coastal areas. as we pursue the development of offshore oil and gas resources to insure plentiful energy supplies for the future. it is essential to offset the effects of development by sharing a portion of these revenues with coastal states. s. 2463 would strengthen the resources of state and local governments to deal with the consequences of ocs energy development  being encouraged at the federal level. it establishes an ocean and coastal resource management and development fund. supported by a small percentage of revenues derived from ocs oil and gas leasing. and allocates these funds in blopk grants to the states. onethird of a states allocation would be managed by local communities. this support would enable states and localities to carry out important coastal development planning. research. and education activities. state and local governments are best suited to assess the environmental and ecoic effects which continued ocs development will exert upon coastal regions. and to plan for the effective future management of these areas. few investments could be more crucial for our nation than preserving coastal habitats and protecting marrine resources. this investment is particularly important to the state of rhode island. where our coastline is an invaluable environmental. ecoic. and recreational asset. the prospect of intensified ocs development imposes a tremendous challenge for communities in rhode island and other states to prepare for changing land use patterns and the effects of commercial growth in coastal sections. the coastal energy impact. fisheries research. and coastal zone management programs which have assisted states in these endeavors have in recent years been threatened by federal budget constraints. this bill would provide a more secure source of funding for these programs. this program would provide a unique opportunity to insure a futuse balance between offshore oil and gas development and the sound management of conservation of our nations coastal resources. i regret that the senate has been unable to adopt the conference report.*
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague. senator wallop. in sponsoring the electric consumers protection act of 1985. this legislation provides the muchneeded reforms to the federal power act of 1920. under the federal power act of 1920. the federal power commission.  the federal energy regulatory commission. is empowered to issue licenses for the construction and operation of hydroelectric projects on the nations navigable rivers. by 1993. 177 existing hydroelectric projects will require relicensing. the act does  clearly state whether public utilities have preferential rights to the power in relicensing. the electric consumers protection act of 1985 eliminates this confusion by making it clear that the preference clause of section 7 of the federal power act does  apply in the case of relicensing. this bill insures that the customers of hydroelectric projects would continue to receive benefits of low cost electricity. providing the existing licensee can meet the standards embraced in section 10(a) of the act. without this amendment. a hydroelectric project could be transferred from millions of customers served by a regulated. investorowned utility to the relatively few customers of a municipality. this bill also eliminates the potential injustice of the compensation clause. under the current law. the existing licensee is entitled net investment plus severance damages from a successful relicensing contestant. given the age of most facilities. the net investment value represents quite a bargain in comparison to a fair market value. this bill ensures the existing licensee receives "just compensation" if the project is licensed to a different licensee. in the interest of equity. it is important to amend the federal power act as proposed. these amendments will eliminate confusion surrounding the preference issue and serve to protect millions of consumers across the nation who are being served by regulated investorowned utilities. i hope the senate can act on this important measure in the very near future. and i urge my colleagues to join in this effort.o
. recently. considerable national attention was devoted to analyzing the federal energy regulatory commissions ice of proposed rulemaking for the natural gas transportation industry. this served to underline the important role natural gas plays for residential and industrial consumers. here in this nation are we more cognizant of the diverse contribution natural gas can make to energy and environmental efficiency than in my home state of rhode island.  burkes comments give us much to think about. i ask that it be printed in the record.
over the past few days. i have heard and read many divergent suggestions as to what should be done about the alleged wrongdoing by four corporate executives of the pomona aerospace division of general dynamics 8 years. the entire cornpany was suspended last week from further bidding on military contracts. first. i would like to clearly state that i do  condone wrongdoing on the part of any company or individual dealing with the federal government. i applaud the move in the department of defense to crack down on misappropriations and mismanagement of funds. as a taxpayer. i resent the waste that occurs in many areas of our government if these charges are proven correct in a court of law. those individuals who are guilty should be punished. i completely fail to understand. however. why. when four executives of the general dyn a ics pomona aerospace division were indicted last week. all the divisions of general dynamics were suspended. i see merit in the idea that the employees of the other general dynamics divisions should be punished for the alleged 5- to 8yearold transgressions of corporate executives 3.000 miles away in a totaly unrelated division. in particular. i am concerned about the electric boat division that employs over 9.000 rhode islanders at quonset. ri. and groton. ct. this summer electric boat worked very closely with the secretary of the navy to set up procedures that would. among other things. ensure that the problem that is alleged at pomona would  happen at electric boat. in a meeting with secretary lehman last week. he indicated he intends to ascertain whether those procedures are working as intended. and will move to reinstate electric boat as soon as possible if his investigation shows problems. secretary lehman further stated that he is impressed he was with the solid professionalism displayed by fritz tovar. vice president and general manager of electric boat. as well as the workers at electric boat. there have been many charges that secretary lehman is being soft on general dynamics because he annced that he would delay an upcoming bid for four los angeles class attack submarines until the suspension of electric boat is lifted. mary mcgrory. in a sunday washington post column. charged the suspension of general dynamics is only a slap on the wrist and that the delay of the submarine bidding shows that secretary lehmans war on fraud is  truly being fought. hobart rowen stated on aher page of sundays washington post that. because the submarine bidding was delayed. it "lends credibility to the charges that the military establishment only want to calm down congressional and press critics of its contracting practices. but intends to do little about curing waste and tackling fraud." i find it unbelievable that critics pentagon spending are  applauding the secretarys action. without bids by electric boat. the submarine contract for los angeles class boats would go by default. as a sole source contract. to the newport news shipyard in virginia. the bidding competition is believed to reduce the cost of each submarine by about $50 million. or a saving of about 10 percent each. without this competitive bidding the taxpayer would once again be the loser. it is incomprehensible to me that these mally thoughtful writers. among others. urge delay in these bids. without the delay. the submarines would be built at a far greater cost to the taxpayers. as in the recent case of general electric. i urge the defense department to narrow the suspension to the division involved in the indictment and  hold hostage those inent workers in other divisions of general dynamics. as well as the taxpayers of this country.
i have some statistics here that perhaps the senator is  familiar with. i wonder if he is familiar with them. they are as follows: first of all. i will preface this by saying there is a good deal of talk here on the floor about opec and about the arabs. somehow this is looked on as a great way to bash the arabs. we are going to fix them up. to quote sheik yamani. he said that the great days of the arab oil were  in the 1960s or 1970s but will be in the 1990s. here are statistics which i think the senator might be interested in. in 1984. only 35 percent of imports were from opec. that is. total opec. but less than 9 percent of the imports in 1984 were supplied by arab member countries of opec. so the suggestion that somehow this is doing something to the arabs is  accurate. it is mexico. canada. and venezuela who supplied the largest share of the imports in 1984. that. it seems to me. is the important point. if somebody is suggesting that we are going to nip the arabs in the heels with this kind of measure. that is  accurate.
in light of the funding being provided in this bill to the national science foundation for work in these areas. would the managers agree that the nsf should do more in 1987 than simply prepare for more scientific studies and should focus attention and energy to aher important aspect of this problem: namely. educating the public about what we already k and about the implications of scientific findings to date.
. my legislation would ensure that consumers are  asked to pay for electrical generating facilities they may never need. basically it does  alter the underlying cwip policy that ferc had in effect before march 10. the bill would permit cwip to be collected for pollution control facilities and fuel conversions. if a utility is in severe financial distress it may receive cwip relief. unlike the old rule. however. this bill offers an objective standard of determining whether a utility is in financial distress. specifically. a utility will have to show that it has insufficient earnings to issue debt to initiate or construct a plant. a utility will also have to demonstrate that it has pursued other means of meeting its cash needs. including encouraging use of leastcost energy alternatives and seeking inative financing methods fur its projects. if a utilitys severe financial condition is attributable to mismanagement then the utility must also demonstrate that such mismanagement has been corrected. if the ferc decides that these steps outlined above will  enable the utility to regain financial stability. then the commission could order an appropriate amount of cwip relief. instead of allowing blanket approval of cwip as exists under the rule of march 10. my legislation will insure that ferc exercise its regulatory authority properly by making a casebycase determination of each utilitys application for cwip. i am hopeful that this bill will enjoy broad support and i urge my colleagues to join me in moving this legislation forward. and ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. recently i joined with senator stevens in sponsoring s. 800. the ocean and coastal development impact assistance act. as we continue to pursue the development of offshore oil and gas resources to insure plentiful energy supplies for the future. it is extremely important that we take steps to protect coastal and marine areas and support state efforts to mitigate the consequences of offshore energy activities. an accelerated program to explore and develop the potential oil and gas resources of the outer continental shelf is  underway. at the same time. budget constraints have jeopardized federal support for many worthwhile coastal protection programs. this legislation is a timely and comprehensive effort to strengthen the partnership between states and the federal government in preserving precious natural resources. it recognizes that coastal states must take steps to deal with the consequences of ocs energy development  being encouraged by the federal government. it establishes an ocean and coastal resource management and development fund. supported by a small percentage of revenues derived from ocs oil and gas leasing. and allocates these funds to coastal states. onethird of a states allocation is to be managed by local communities. this support will enable states and localities to carry out important coastal development research. education. and planning activities. state and local governments are best suited to assess the environmental and ecoic effects which continued ocs development will exert upon coastal regions. and to plan for the effective future management of these regions. the legislations formula for the allocation of funding correctly takes into account factors such as a states proximity to leased area. the presence of coastal energy facilities. length of coastline and amount of oil and gas produced off state shores. in addition. the formula rewards states which have federally approved coastal zone management programs in place. state and local governments have expressed strong support for this legislation and have recently been joined by several distinguished environmental organizations such as friends of the earth and the natural resources defense council. few investments could be more crucial for our nation than preserving coastal habitats and protecting marine resources. this investment is particularly important to the state of rhode island. where our coastline is a vital ecoic and recreational asset. the prospect of intensified ocs development activities poses a tremendous challenge for communities in rhode island and other states to prepare for changing land use patterns and the effects of commercial growth in coastal sections. the coastal energy impact. fisheries research and coastal zone management programs which have assisted states in these endeavors have in recent years been threatened by federal budget constraints. 8. 800 would provide a more secure source of funding for these programs and would also guarantee the continuation of activities under the national sea grant college program which. through the university of rhode island and other institutions. has provided outstanding research. education and advisory services in marine resources. s. 800 is a. unique opportunity to insure a future balance between offshore oil and gas development and the sound management and conservation of our nations coastal resources. i urge my colleagues to support its enactment.
 i wish to say to the distinguished majority leader that would be fine by me. yes. i  only consent to it. i am enthusiastic about it. and furthermore it would be with the provision that i would be recognized when the senate resumes consideration. could i ask the majority lerider where would we be tomorrow. let us say that we go to the natural gas bill . that would be the majority leaders intent. when we come in tolmorow. what would happen.
. i commend the senator from maine who has been a longtime leader in this effort and who has been the person chiefly responsible for the enactment of these energy credits. just a couple words. if i might. on who they go to. these energy credits go under the figures we received from the treasury department. 73 percent of them go to those people who are earning under $40.000. and i think that is important. furthermore. the bulk of the money goes for storm doors and windows and insulation. and as everyone here kn there has been a drastic cutback in the energy assistance program. that is. programs from the federal government that went out to the states to help the states send out money to those in lowincome areas with low incomes to insulate their homes. to provide the storm doors. windows. and so forth. and so to a considerable degree the energy conservation credits have helped take up the slack that has come about because of the decline in the energy assistance program. so i feel strongly that this is a good program. as the senator from maine has pointed out. it has made considerable savings in lowincome assistance. in the consumption of fuel oil. and finally i wish to say that what these credits do is to help people do something they could  otherwise afford. and these would  be done but for the credilts. and that. it seems to me. is the key purpose. it is  a question of they might do it over a long period of time.  they would . absent the credits they would  do it. so i think the senator from maine has a good amendment. and i commend him for it.
. i strongly support the conference report on s. 2463. legislation which i have cosponsored to establish an outer continental shelf revenue sharing program. i very much regrei that the senate has been unable to consider fully and adopt the report. it is certainly one of the most significant pieces of legislation for the protection of our nations coastal and marine resources to emerge from the 98th congress. i want to commend senator stevens for his leadership in sponsoring this measure. i was pleased that house and senate conferees achieved this responsible compromise. the sharing of revenues with affected states has been an integral component of most federal lands management activities. through the mineral lands leasing act of 1920. 50 percent of the receipts from the leasing of federal mineralbearing lands are shared with the state in which those lands are situated. s. 2463 recognizes that federal offshore activities entail significant consequences for coastal areas. as we pursue the development of offshore oil and gas resources to insure plentiful energy supplies for the future. it is essential to offset the effects of development by sharing a portion of these revenues with coastal states. s. 2463 would strengthen the resources of state and local governments to deal with the consequences of ocs energy development  being encouraged at the federal level. it establishes an ocean and coastal resource management and development fund. supported by a small percentage of revenues derived from ocs oil and gas leasing. and allocates these funds in blopk grants to the states. onethird of a states allocation would be managed by local communities. this support would enable states and localities to carry out important coastal development planning. research. and education activities. state and local governments are best suited to assess the environmental and ecoic effects which continued ocs development will exert upon coastal regions. and to plan for the effective future management of these areas. few investments could be more crucial for our nation than preserving coastal habitats and protecting marrine resources. this investment is particularly important to the state of rhode island. where our coastline is an invaluable environmental. ecoic. and recreational asset. the prospect of intensified ocs development imposes a tremendous challenge for communities in rhode island and other states to prepare for changing land use patterns and the effects of commercial growth in coastal sections. the coastal energy impact. fisheries research. and coastal zone management programs which have assisted states in these endeavors have in recent years been threatened by federal budget constraints. this bill would provide a more secure source of funding for these programs. this program would provide a unique opportunity to insure a futuse balance between offshore oil and gas development and the sound management of conservation of our nations coastal resources. i regret that the senate has been unable to adopt the conference report.*
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague. senator wallop. in sponsoring the electric consumers protection act of 1985. this legislation provides the muchneeded reforms to the federal power act of 1920. under the federal power act of 1920. the federal power commission.  the federal energy regulatory commission. is empowered to issue licenses for the construction and operation of hydroelectric projects on the nations navigable rivers. by 1993. 177 existing hydroelectric projects will require relicensing. the act does  clearly state whether public utilities have preferential rights to the power in relicensing. the electric consumers protection act of 1985 eliminates this confusion by making it clear that the preference clause of section 7 of the federal power act does  apply in the case of relicensing. this bill insures that the customers of hydroelectric projects would continue to receive benefits of low cost electricity. providing the existing licensee can meet the standards embraced in section 10(a) of the act. without this amendment. a hydroelectric project could be transferred from millions of customers served by a regulated. investorowned utility to the relatively few customers of a municipality. this bill also eliminates the potential injustice of the compensation clause. under the current law. the existing licensee is entitled net investment plus severance damages from a successful relicensing contestant. given the age of most facilities. the net investment value represents quite a bargain in comparison to a fair market value. this bill ensures the existing licensee receives "just compensation" if the project is licensed to a different licensee. in the interest of equity. it is important to amend the federal power act as proposed. these amendments will eliminate confusion surrounding the preference issue and serve to protect millions of consumers across the nation who are being served by regulated investorowned utilities. i hope the senate can act on this important measure in the very near future. and i urge my colleagues to join in this effort.o
. recently. considerable national attention was devoted to analyzing the federal energy regulatory commissions ice of proposed rulemaking for the natural gas transportation industry. this served to underline the important role natural gas plays for residential and industrial consumers. here in this nation are we more cognizant of the diverse contribution natural gas can make to energy and environmental efficiency than in my home state of rhode island.  burkes comments give us much to think about. i ask that it be printed in the record.
over the past few days. i have heard and read many divergent suggestions as to what should be done about the alleged wrongdoing by four corporate executives of the pomona aerospace division of general dynamics 8 years. the entire cornpany was suspended last week from further bidding on military contracts. first. i would like to clearly state that i do  condone wrongdoing on the part of any company or individual dealing with the federal government. i applaud the move in the department of defense to crack down on misappropriations and mismanagement of funds. as a taxpayer. i resent the waste that occurs in many areas of our government if these charges are proven correct in a court of law. those individuals who are guilty should be punished. i completely fail to understand. however. why. when four executives of the general dyn a ics pomona aerospace division were indicted last week. all the divisions of general dynamics were suspended. i see merit in the idea that the employees of the other general dynamics divisions should be punished for the alleged 5- to 8yearold transgressions of corporate executives 3.000 miles away in a totaly unrelated division. in particular. i am concerned about the electric boat division that employs over 9.000 rhode islanders at quonset. ri. and groton. ct. this summer electric boat worked very closely with the secretary of the navy to set up procedures that would. among other things. ensure that the problem that is alleged at pomona would  happen at electric boat. in a meeting with secretary lehman last week. he indicated he intends to ascertain whether those procedures are working as intended. and will move to reinstate electric boat as soon as possible if his investigation shows problems. secretary lehman further stated that he is impressed he was with the solid professionalism displayed by fritz tovar. vice president and general manager of electric boat. as well as the workers at electric boat. there have been many charges that secretary lehman is being soft on general dynamics because he annced that he would delay an upcoming bid for four los angeles class attack submarines until the suspension of electric boat is lifted. mary mcgrory. in a sunday washington post column. charged the suspension of general dynamics is only a slap on the wrist and that the delay of the submarine bidding shows that secretary lehmans war on fraud is  truly being fought. hobart rowen stated on aher page of sundays washington post that. because the submarine bidding was delayed. it "lends credibility to the charges that the military establishment only want to calm down congressional and press critics of its contracting practices. but intends to do little about curing waste and tackling fraud." i find it unbelievable that critics pentagon spending are  applauding the secretarys action. without bids by electric boat. the submarine contract for los angeles class boats would go by default. as a sole source contract. to the newport news shipyard in virginia. the bidding competition is believed to reduce the cost of each submarine by about $50 million. or a saving of about 10 percent each. without this competitive bidding the taxpayer would once again be the loser. it is incomprehensible to me that these mally thoughtful writers. among others. urge delay in these bids. without the delay. the submarines would be built at a far greater cost to the taxpayers. as in the recent case of general electric. i urge the defense department to narrow the suspension to the division involved in the indictment and  hold hostage those inent workers in other divisions of general dynamics. as well as the taxpayers of this country.
i have some statistics here that perhaps the senator is  familiar with. i wonder if he is familiar with them. they are as follows: first of all. i will preface this by saying there is a good deal of talk here on the floor about opec and about the arabs. somehow this is looked on as a great way to bash the arabs. we are going to fix them up. to quote sheik yamani. he said that the great days of the arab oil were  in the 1960s or 1970s but will be in the 1990s. here are statistics which i think the senator might be interested in. in 1984. only 35 percent of imports were from opec. that is. total opec. but less than 9 percent of the imports in 1984 were supplied by arab member countries of opec. so the suggestion that somehow this is doing something to the arabs is  accurate. it is mexico. canada. and venezuela who supplied the largest share of the imports in 1984. that. it seems to me. is the important point. if somebody is suggesting that we are going to nip the arabs in the heels with this kind of measure. that is  accurate.
in light of the funding being provided in this bill to the national science foundation for work in these areas. would the managers agree that the nsf should do more in 1987 than simply prepare for more scientific studies and should focus attention and energy to aher important aspect of this problem: namely. educating the public about what we already k and about the implications of scientific findings to date.
. i am pleased to join senator bumpers as a cosponsor of the regulatory fairness act of 1987. which will bring needed and prompt relief to millions of consumers who are  suffering from excessively high utility rates. this legislation amends the federal power act to make the system for utility rate reduction consistent with the system used by wholesale power suppliers to obtain rate increases. this will  change the system for increasing utility rates. under the current law. wholesale energy suppliers file applications for rate increases pursuant to section 205 of the federal power act. conversely. if wholesale customers wish to contest an existing rate. they must file a complaint under section 206. however. section 205 and section 206 filings are  treated in the same manner. and this inequality serves to favor the wholesale supplier over the wholesale customers and their residential and commercial customers as well. in rhode island. over 70 percent of the electrical utility costs are a product of the rate structure of two major wholesale suppliers. under the current law. federal energy regulatory commission (fercj approved charges can be contested at state level hearings of the rhode island retail affiliates. of all the 50 states. therefore. rhode island is one of the most deeply affected by ferc regulation. under ferc regulation. when a utility files for a rate increase. the increase is suspended for a period of between 1 day and 5 months. at the end of the suspension period. the filed rate goes into effect and may be collected. "subject to refund." ferc eventually determines what amount of increases is "just and reasonable." and the difference between the filed rate and the just and reasonable rate collected is refunded with interest to the customers. thus a utility collects a rate increase in full. prior to any hearings. beginning on the effectivedate of the filing. - this legislation will address the problem that occurs when the utilitys customers are entitled to a decrease in rates because of declining costs of the wholesale producer. such as lower injulyy. 1987 terest rates. cheaper fuel. fewer new plant investments. or lower corporate taxes. the current law covering a decrease in rates is simply inequitable. it takes well over 2 years for ferc to process a petition for a decrease in rates. and after that relief is granted to the consumer prospectively.  retroactively. that means that consumers are  given any compensation for paying as many as 3 years of utility rates which the government has determined are too high. this legislation establishes a more level playing field at ferc for wholesale consumers seeking rate reductions. by requiring ferc to set an effective date for the refund. similar to the one in section 206. the refund effective date will be established as 60 days following the filing of the petition for the decrease. which is similar to the procedure for granting increases. this will mean that wholesale electric consumers and their customers will receive full and appropriate rate relief both prospectively and retroactively. all electric consumers benefit when the regulatory process is responsive and when utilities can only charge rates that are just and reasonable. more than 900 public power systems and several hundred rural electric cooperatives purchase power from fercregulated utilities. retail customers of investorowned utilities can also benefit. state regulatory commissions and consumer advocates are increasingly participating in section 206 proceeding before ferc. reform of this regulatory deterrent will help these parties seek lower electric rates for consumers of utilities within their state. this legislation assures that consumers who deserve utility rate decreases receive full. just. and prompt relief. this is a bipartisan effort supported by the consumer federation of america. the american public power association. and the national rural electric coop association i urge my colleagues to join us as cosponsors of the regulatory fairness act.e by mr. matsunaga (for himself and mr. iye):
as the distinguished . senators k. this year the navy has for the first time received a bid for a trident submarine from a firm other than the electric boat division of general dynamics. newport news shipbuilding & drydock co. has submitted a proposal.  i think competition is a great idea. and i commend the current secretary of the navy. and his predecessor. for doing so much to encourage it. my. concern. which is shared by my colleague from connecticut. is that the navys award might contain funds to assist in the retooling of a competitor for electric boat. i believe that would defeat the purpose of the competition in this particular instance.
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague senator p=. and others in support of this resolution to oppose the imposition of fees on oil imports. an oil import fee proposal would  only be bad policy for rhode island and all of new england. it would just be bad policy. i dont think any of my colleagues in the senate would advocate making the federal personal income tax higher in one area of the country than any other area. yet that is the effect an oil import fee woul have on new england. whether it is structured as a flat dollar fee on each imported barrel of oil. or a floating fee designed to keep a floor under the price of oil. it would penalize states that depend on oil for their energy needs. i am proud of rhode islands energy conservation efforts. but we still need oil. and that should  mean we have to bear the brunt of higher costs from these fees. today. an average homeowner in rhode island pays about $1.000 a year to heat a home with oil. a tax on such a basic commodity as oil would increase the annual bill by up to 25 percent. this prospect is especially frightening to lowincome families. who must spend a high percentage of their income on energy costs. that is just  fair. our businesses would also suffer. artificially high domestic energy costs from an oil import fee would erase competitive advantages gained by our companies. with foreign competition as tough as it is. do we really want to compound our trade problems with oil import fees. lower energy costs often mean lower inflation. an increase in per capita income. and more jobs for all americans. i believe consumers should be able to enjoy these benefits. i strongly support this resolution and urge my oolleagues in the senate to join us in opposing tile imposition of an oil import fee.0
as ed in the april 13 letter. without a policy to reduce our own emissions. our ability to convince others to act on the greenhouse effect will be constrained. the united states is the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in the world. each year. we produce 5 tons of carbon dioxide for every man. woman and child in this country. canada is an equal offender. the next largest producer is the soviet union. with annual per capita emissions of 3s/2 tons. compare these numbers to the world average which is less than 1 ton per capita. at the same time. the united states is one of the most energy inefficient countries in the world. we continue to lead all industrial nations except canada in the amount of energy used per unit of goods and services produced. we are such a large part of the problem that we should  be worrying about giving away too much before a treaty is negotiated. . this amendment is designed to make the united states a world leader in the international effort to cope with the greenhouse effect. the world is looking to us for that leadership. i am proud to be an author of this amendment and urge all of our colleagues to support it. exhibit 1
. i want to congratulate our colleagues al gore and john mccain. who this moring have been reelected chairman and vice chairman of the environmental and energy study conference. this is the second term for both gentlemen. for the house. representatives bos wise and jan meyers have been elected chairman and vice chair. bob wise has served as house vice chairman for the past 4 years. jan meyers has served on the conferences executive committee since coming to congress. as a former chairman of the study conference. i am pleased to see the conference in the hands of such experienced and energetic leaders. with congressional attention to environmental and energy issues again high. the conferences contribution to the process is more valuable than ever. our colleagues recognition of the value of conference services is clear: this year a record 90 senators are conference subscribers. over the 14 years of its existence. the study conference has done an excellent job of keeping senators and house members uptodate on the issues and helping us anticipate emerging public concerns. the conferences objective analyses and its forums and briefings are an important component of the informational foundation we need for our decisionmaking. the conference does  take political positions. enabling all of us to take advanage of its services. the issues we face are complex. they are increasingly international in scope. the prospect of global warming for example. demands that we develop a new energy policy for ourselves and challenges us to assist in a reordering of energy use globally. advances in environmental monitoring capabilities have shown us that the effects of pollution are more pervasive and insidious than we could have imagined. reason tells us: pollute less. we have run out of room for our garbage. reason says: waste less. as we tackle these fundamental and critical issues. we are fortunate to have the services of the study conference assisting us every step of the way. my thanks to our colleagues for their fine leadership of the conference during these past 2 years. and my best wishes for their new term of office.*
. i want to congratulate our colleagues al gore and john mccain. who this moring have been reelected chairman and vice chairman of the environmental and energy study conference. this is the second term for both gentlemen. for the house. representatives bob wise and jan meyers have been elected chairman and vice chair. bob wise has served as house vice chairman for the past 4 years. jan meyers has served on the conferences executive committee since coming to congress. as a former chairman of the study conference. i am pleased to see the conference in the hands of such experienced and energetic leaders. with congressional attention to environmental and energy issues again high. the conferences contribution -to the process is more valuable than ever. our colleagues recognition of the value of conference services is clear: this year a record 90 senators are conference subscribers. over the 14 years of its existence. the study conference has done an excellent job of keeping senators and house members uptodate on the issues and helping us anticipate emerging public concerns. the conferences objective analyses and its forums and briefings are an important component of the informational foundation we need for our decisionmaking. the conference does  take political positions. enabling all of us to take advanage of its services. the issues we face are complex. they are increasingly international in scope. the prospect of global warming for example. demands that we develop a new energy policy for ourselves and challenges us to assist in a reordering of energy use globally. advances in environmental monitoring capabilities have shown us *that the effects of pollution are more pervasive and insidious than we could have imagined. reason tells us: pollute less. we have run out of room for our garbage. reason says: waste less. as we tackle these fundamental and critical issues. we are fortunate to have the services of the study conference assisting us every step of the way. my thanks to our colleagues for their fine leadership of the conference during these past 2 years. and my best wishes for their new term of office.*
. i think we better review the bidding here a little bit. first of all. for those who believe there should be unlimited liability. there will be an opportunity for you to support that view when the wilson amendment comes up dealing with offshore rigs. offshore rigs. there was a limitation placed on their liability in this statute that is before us. although. currently. there is limitation on their liability for cleanup. so the junior senator from california will present an amendment in connection with that. which i will support. because i do  think there should be a limit on the rigs liability. because they are sitting on top of unlimited amounts of oil. and thus. there could be an explosion occur that could do untold damage. as the senator ks. recalling from  only what happened in santa barbara. but what happened off the coast of mexico.  we are talking about a different situation. we are talking about tankers. . it is all well and good to say. as far as tankers go. that everybody that owns a tanker is exxon. but that is  the case. or that everyone that owns an onshore facility for dispensing oil. whatever it might be. is exxon. but they are . there are some small players in this game. and these small players have to have some limitation in their liability. if they are going to survive in a type of work. the amount of damage they can do is finite. the amount of damage that an offshore oil rig can do is infinite.
if i might make one point to the distinguished senator from oklahoma. who has given this matter a lot of thought. as he does all legislation here. we have found. in dealing. for example. with the diesel engine manufacturers. they say to us: do  give us a standard to meet in 1993 and aher standard to meet in 1997. tell us what the standard is you want in 1997. we believe it is better for us to make the double jump. forget 1993. let us k where we have to be in 1997. and that is where we would like to invest our money. achieving that goal.  having to meet something in 1993. the amount of money we have to invest to meet the 1993 one. we would prefer to sink to making the 1997 one. so drop the whole 1993 standard. go strictly for the point i am making here is they would like to k what we are going to set out for them. instead of giving them increments every 5 years. for example.
i commend the senator again for this thoughful amendment. it is an amendment.he presented previously that was adopted. i think it is helpful for the coal techogy to have a worldwide market. and this would encourage the sales of that type of equipment. it is a good suggestion. and this side supports it.
 pro tempore. pointed out in his remarks. because of mechanization and other changes in the industry. there has been a precipitous drop in the number of employees involved in the coal mining industry. in the past 10 years 49.000 jobs of coal miners. 28 percent of the jobs in the coal mining industry have been lost. my colleagues will e in this program it suggests it is  going to cost much. and people say it is only those directly affected. how in the world do we tell who has been directly affected. how are we going to tell who lost their jobs. who is part of that 28 percent. we can only assume that line is going to go down in a straight manner. how are we going to tell out of that 28 percent who lost his job due to mechanization or changes that might mally come from highsulfur coal to lowsulfur coal. how are we going to tell. furthermore. in this bill. there is a rebuttable presumption. the bill is so drawn that when somebody comes to seek the benefits under this program. the government has to prove that they lost their job due to factors other than the clean air bill. in other words. it is assumed that the person lost his job due to this legislation. i think. first of all. it is unfair. it only deals with one category. second. it is  narrowly drawn. third. it is going to cost way more than anybody anticipates. and fourth. i think we are making a great mistake here tonight to believe that the administration is kidding. that somehow we can bulldoze by them. that this is  where they have drawn the line. it is. we have heard it time and time again from the administration. way back when this legislation was first discussed. so. do  anybody think. if they vote for this amendment. that they can go around the country and say. "i am for clean air. it is just i happen to be for this amendment. too." by voting for this amendment we kill this legislation. there is  doubt about it.
. statistics have to be treated gingerly and examined carefully. if everybody who lives in kentucky or west virginia. their closest association being that their father was a coal miner. applies for black lung. then it may be that only 1 percent qualify. so be careful of these statistics. all i can report to the senate is-. and i do  think anybody will question thisthat there was ability for the government to question the diages that were made in the local communities. and the rolls swelled. as i pointed out from the statistics. it went from 112.000 to 400.000 in 10 years. and when those amendments came in 1977. it was off to the races. everybody aboard. and. indeed. most everybody was able to climb aboard. i thank the chair.
. this is an amendment that deals with engines. primarily diesel engines. it is a very thoughtful amendment. it takes care of a situation that could arise. actually would arise but for the effect of this amendment providing for regulations dealing with emissions standards  being effective prior to the january 1. 2002. so i congratulate the senator for the amendment. it is supported by this side.
. i send istrator shall propose revised standards of pursuant to subsection (b)(1) and (b)(2). an amendment to the desk. on behalf performance to section 111 for nitrogen if the permitting authority determines. in of the junior senator from mississippi oxides emissions from fossilfuel fired accordance with regulations issued by the [mr. lorr] and ask for its immediate stream generating units. including both administrator  later than eighteen consideration. electric utility and utility units.  months afer enactment of the clean air act
. i wish to explore. if i might.. this legislation and see if i understand it thoroughly. if the distinguished senior senator from west virginia could correct me if i an in error on my understanding of this legislation. i would greatly appreciate it. it is my understanding. first of all. that it is solely coal miners who receive the benefits that are set forth in regard to the 70 percent. 60 percent. 50 percent. solely coal miners who have lost their jobs due to. the clean air act. other workerspetrochemical. whatever it might be. wood finising plantsreceive a different type of benefit. which perhaps could be described loosely as being similar to the trade adjustment assistance act. or. indeed. an extension of unemployment compensation. is that a fair characterization.
. so if somebody could explain to me examples or rationale for why if you are a coal miner you get this treatment. if you work in a petrochemical plant you are treated in this fashion. that is the difficulty with this legislation.
(for mr. symms. for himself. mr. simpson. mr. boren. mr. qgar. mr. hatch. mr. mcclure. mr. reid. mr. biman. mr. wallop. mr. baucus. and mr. breaux) proposed an amendment to amendment  1230 (in the nature of a substitute) proposed by mr. mitchell (and others) to the bill s. 1630. supra. as follows: on page 438 of amendment  1293. at line 12 insert the following new subsection: "(h) small diesel refineries.-the administrator shall issue allowances to owners or operators of small diesel refineries who produce diesel fuel after october 1. 1993 meeting the requirements of subsection 211(i) of this act. "(a) allowance period.-allowances may be issued under this subsection only for the period from october 1. 1993 through december 31. 1999.
. i want to commend the senator from south dakota for this amendment. this takes care of a situation that involves the federal marketing authorities when they have a situation where the hydroelectric power is  adequate and they have to rely on steam. those steam generators can add the cost to whatever allowances they might be involved in. they can include those costs for the allowances in the rate base. i think it is a fine amendment. and i want to congratulate the senator from south dakota for his thoughtfulness.
this is an amendment almost identical to a previously accepted amendment regarding fugitive emissions resulting directly or indirectly from surface coal mines. this amendment would simply give the same consideration to the fugitive emissions from hardrock mines. it would exempt fugitive dust from surface mines from consideration in prevention of significant deterioration. socalled psd. increment consumption determinations. there is question that fugitive dust from surface mines can exceed psd participate increments even after application of best available control techogy. so. . this particularly applies to those mines which are located in sparsely populated areas. it would allow the gover of a state to exempt hardrock mine fugitive dust emissions from measurements of increment consumption under psd reviews except in class i areas.
i guess we could safely say then for all cities over 1 million. they are either covered by this provision which is the trap to capture the diesel emissions or they go into the alternative fuels program. that is for those over 1.5 million.
. the bill currently provides that if you do  increase the emissions. you are.  subject to the new source performance standards. what the senator is doing is driving a mack truck through this. polluting. i might say. at the same time. because he is  willing to have those restrictions imposed. and for the reasons i pointed out. that the new result of the senators amendment is increased pollution. i do  think it is something that we want. he keeps referring to $7 billion. which apparently is a reference to the clean coal techogy development. i can only assume that. somehow the suggestion is given that we have  done anything about clean coal techogy in here. well of course. we have. we have given a delay for those plants that install the clean coal techogy to meet the emission control standards. we have done a whole series of pluses. you might. say. and given advantages to the clean coal techogy. we have  just blown away the investment of $7 billion. so that is a red herring that is being submitted. i suggest. in this argument.
. i would like to thank the conferees of the fiscal year 1991 defense authorization bill for including in the conference report the important department of defense energy savings program. this important provision will help encourage energy conservation at military installations. last june. my rhode island colleague- representative machtley. joined by representative markey. introduced h.r. 5163. the military energy conservation act. this measure would establish a comprehensive program for reducing energy consumption in department of defense facilities. and also establish incentives within the department to save costs through energy conservation. it served as the basis for the energy program provisions that we have just approved in the 1991 dod authorization bill. at an energy and commerce joint subcommittee hearing last summer. representative machtley pointed out that the department of defense is the single largest energy consumer in the federal government. with its consumption accounting for more than twothirds of the governments energy costs for buildings and facilities. he went on to state that a house armed services committee report revealed that $540 million could be saved annually by instituting a dod energy conservation program. yet last year. the department spent only $2 million on energy conservation effortsa tiny fraction of the amount it spends buying energy. i wholeheartedly applaud representative machtleys words. today. with thousands of american troops in the gulf. the need for increased efforts in energy conservation at all levelsgovernment. commercial. residential. and so onis clearer than ever. the department of defense is a good place to start. in september. representative machtley. aspin. markey. and sharp successfully offered a version of the machtley bill as an amendment to the defense authorization bill. on october 1 of this year. i joined 9 of my senate colleagues in writing the armed services to urge support for the machtley energy provisions. i am delighted that both committees did so. in my view. this bill is a major step forward in terms of making an investment in energy conservationand making it in a department where the return on that investment could be substantial. i commend my colleague from rhode island. and also the members of the two armed services committees. for their work on this issue.
. i believe it is in the nations best interest that that second seawoif be awarded to electric boat. i thank the chair and i thank the distinguished junior senator from delaware. the chairman of the judiciary committee and the manager of the bill coming up. for permitting me to proceed.
. this bill has 13 clearcut instances where the energy committee has barged into the jurisdiction of the environment committee. i am  solely opposed because of a turf battle. a jurisdictional battle. i am opposed because of the results reached by the energy committee: it runs roughshod over environmental protection. some instances: last year. by a vote of 89 to 11. the senate passed the clean air act. and that clean air act dealt with what we call new source review requirements in the clean air act to electric utilities. as such. the legislation would amend the act to reopen the socalled wepco issue. the bill changes that. gets into that matter. reopens it once again.
. during the senate debate last fall regarding the original national energy security act. i outlined a number of my concerns with the bill. including the hydropower provisions of title v. i rise today to thank my colleagues senators johnston and wallop and the other members of the energy committee for their efforts to resolve these concerns. i also want to extend my appreciation to senators adams and wellstone who lead the effort to ensure that the hydropower licensing process was  modified in a way which would preclude the full consideration of environmental issues. senators cranston. levin. wirth. lugar. jeffords. and durenberger also supported this important effort. the amendment as agreed to by the energy committee would delete the provision of s. 2166 which would eliminate federal licensing jurisdiction over hydroelectric power projects of 5.000 megawatts capacity or less. turning that authority over to the states. this would have created a hodgepodge of confusing requirements and effectively removed twothirds of hydroelectric projects from the nepa process. therefore. i fully support deleting this provision. in addition. the amendment would delete the provision of s. 2166 which would have eliminated the authority of federal land management agencies to set mandatory conditions on hydrower licenses for the protection of lands within their jurisdiction. the amendment would require. in the alternative. that the federal land management agencies enter into memorandums of understanding with ferc to eliminate unnecessary delay and duplication and to provide for the resolution of any disputes between the agencies. this will ensure that the federal land management agencies can fulfill their reponsibilities to protect the lands within their jurisdiction and at the same time improve the efficiency of the hydropower licensing process.
. this provision completely overrides the schedule for cfc reduction that was included in the clean air act amendments of 1990. moreover it eliminates the epa administrators authority to accelerate the schedule in the future. as i understand it. however. this provision has been stricken from the bill in a managerg amendment. the second provision is related to the expansion of the program for research and development for natural gas and electric heating and cooling techogies. section 1311 of title xiii specifically recommends research on hcfc22 as a replacement for cfcs. this is just the approach we should be avoiding. if the federal government is going to support research on substitutes. we should focus our resources on pure. safe substitutes.  substances with many of the same environmental hazards as cfcs and substances that we in fact are phasing out at this time. the provision represents hing less than a step backward in our effort to phase out the use of cfcs. my amendment is straightforward and would merely strike the reference to hcfc22. it does . i might add. preclude an expansion of the r&d program. certainly. we must develop substitutes but we must also focus our resources on environmentally sound replacements. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
i am just curious. if you have the chairman of the nuclear regulatory commissioni am  objecting. i am just seeking information on this--what is the contribution that the secretary of energy would make to this.
. energy conservation and energy efficiency are vital to our efforts to reduce this nations dependence on foreign oil. the need program has played an important role in improving awareness about energy issues among our nations young people. i am pleased to have the opportunity to recognize those who are involved in this fine project.*
. i admire the members of the energy and natural resources committee for their perseverance in this very difficult field. as i have said. the struggle to manage the competing goals that define a national energy policy. and to do it in the context of cartels. embargoes. recessions. revolutions. and wars. in one of the most difficult problems we face. i do  criticize their efforts for the lack of radical change in our current policy. unlike mr. perot. i am  ready for 33 per gallon gasoline taxes and crash programs for energy production to reduce our imports. but it seems to me that this bill does  make as much as we could of the more modest opportunities that we do have for energy conservation and greater use of domestic. renewable energy resources. rather. it tilts in the director of more energy production and the consumption of the fossilized. carbon energy resources that pose such a threat to our environment. without any ecoic penaltyin fact. with real benefits from greater ecoic efficiencywe could do more for your energy security and for our environment with a policy more reliant on conservation and the use of renewable energy resources.
. russia simply is  a reliable partner for a longterm investment of this magnitude. it is impossible to insure stable united statesrussian relations for the decades it will take to complete this project. the space station partnership is  necessary to advance our foreign policy interests. ample cooperative research among our two nations already exists in the areas of weapons dismantlement and nuclear reactor safety. moreover. the current plan directly contradicts the united states goal of encouraging. more privatization in russia. for these reasons. i urge my colleagues to vote for the bumperswarner amendment to terminate space station alpha and to stop this wasteful spending.
. i would ask unanimous consent that: both of these letters. along with a letter addressed to the senate signed by five major environmental organizations opposing this amendment. be printed in the record after my remarks. because of these from the administration assurances. i intend to vote against the amendment offered by the senator from louisiana. i generally oppose amendments to appropriations bills that attempt to amend the underlying authorizing statutes. epa believes it has the authority under the clean air act to issue this rule. senator johnston disagrees. but that is  a question the senate need decide. the rule has been challenged in court and if epa has exceeded its authority. the courts will overturn the rule. i believe that section 211(k) of the clean air act gives epa clear authority to take into account the energy impacts of its rules. here. the agency has determined that a rule favoring domestically produced. renewable energy resources is an appropriate consideration in carrying out the reformulated gasoline requirements of the clean air act. considering all of these factors. i do  think the senate should vote to overturn epas policy on a rider to appropriations bill. i would urge the senate to reject the senators amendment.
. i agree with the analysis of the distinguished senator from virginia. we are making some progress. we would appreciate your sticking around a little longer. though. we have just disposed of three in 30 seconds. it is like a house of cards. if we pull one card out. perhaps the whole thing will come collapsing down and we will finish. in any event. we are striving. we will call on these individual senators to see if they are satisfied. i think the point the managers make here is a very valid one. these amendments. many of them. do  involve this committee. they involve other committees. and we are caught in a crossfire here. the commerce committee or the energy committeethey have hing to do with us. i do  even k why they are on this bill.
thankfully. today russia is  a major adversary. and i am hopeful that this administration and future ones will indeed strengthen u.s.-russian relations. we are all for that. however. in these uncertain times. unforeseen political instability or a rise in antiwest nationalism could result in russia becoming a genuine undersea threat in the future. that is a big nation. perhaps more importantly to the united states in the near term is russias sale of its very capable submarines to potential united states adversaries abroad. a move that poses a very serious challenge to our navy. there are many nations that recognize the cost effectiveness of submarines. even relatively unsophisticated ones: diesel power. for example. listen to this statistic. .
. i would like to make a few remarks about s. 104. the nuclear waste policy act of last year. i voted against s. 1936. the nuclear waste policy act of 1996 for several reasons. i felt that the measure rushed to build the interim site before the viability of the permanent site was considered. also. under last years bill. nepa. the national environmental policy act. would  have applied until quite late in the game. after great time and resources had been expended. it only would have applied to the licensing of the facility. it wouldnt have applied to construction of the facility at all. finally. the radiation standards provided in s. 1936 were too lax. and epa was virtually shut out of the process of setting such standards. last years bill was a takeitorleaveit proposal. and i chose to leave it. when s. 104 was reported by the energy committee earlier this year. i had every intention of opposing the nuclear waste policy act. s. 104. again. but this year. the energy committee has worked hard to address the concerns that were raised about last years proposal. after reviewing the changes made in the murkowski substitute amendment. i have decided to vote in favor of the bill before us. while it is  perfect. the substitute is a significant improvement over last years bill and this years bill as reported by the energy committee. is it a perfect bill.  at all. but it is a far more reasonable solution to a terribly difficult situation than we have ever had before. years ago. congress rejected reprocessing as an alternative to waste storage. there arent a lot of options when it comes to disposing of nuclear waste. either it stays on site. or it goes to a centralized storage facility. i support centralized storage of nuclear waste. however. i believe that the effects of designating a central site must be considered before such a critical decision is reached. the department of energy is committed to completing a viability study of yucca mountain as the permanent repository by the end of next year. until that study is completed. i feel strongly that there is reason to go forward with an interim facility at the nearby test site in nevada. under last years bill. as well as the bill reported by the committee. the viability study was disregarded. site preparation and construction would begin upon enactment of the legislation. senator bingaman worked closely with senator murkowski and the energy committee to address this issue. the committee substitute amendment specifically precludes any work. beyond generic design. from going forward at the interim site. before the viability study of yucca mountain is completed. i also supported senator bingamans amendment. which would have ensured that the interim storage facility would  become a de facto permanent repository if yucca mountain were deemed to be unsuitable. regrettably. that amendment failed. while i was disappointed with the failure of this amendment. it was  egh to cause me to vote against the bill. simply put. i believe it is highly unlikely that the viability study will be negative. the substitute also strengthens the role of nepa. site preparation. construction. and the use of the interim facility are longer exempt from nepa. in fact. construction at the interim site could proceed before an environmental impact statement is completed by the nuclear regulatory commission. this is an emous improvement over last years bill. which disregarded nepa at every step prior to the licensing of the facility. the process for setting standards to protect the public from radiation at the yucca mountain site also is a marked improvement over previous measures. rather than setting an arbitrary statutory standard. the substitute incorporates recent recommendations made by the national academy of sciences in setting an overall radiation standard for the repository. let me close by saying that the arguments on both sides of this issue have been persuasive. i want to recognize the undaunted persistence of senators bryan and rem in articulating the potential implications of the bill and in arguing relentlessly for the interests of nevada. i also want to commend senator murkowski for his hard work and determination. senator murkowski ably managed this very complex measure and was willing to accept suggestions and changes from other senators that vastly improved the bill. the bill. as passed. did  resolve all of my concerns. but it did resolve most of them.
. and that is as follows. every industrial nation in the world has far higher overall gasoline taxes than we have in this nation. if youtalk to any environmental group. they will say that gasoline taxes result in a reduction in miles traveled by automobiles. in other words. if somebody is encumbered by a gasoline tax. raising the cost of operating his or her vehicle. those people will be more cautious about using their vehicle. or else they will seek out vehicles that get far more miles per gallon than would otherwise be true. so a gasoline tax. matter whether its modest or very substantial. results in environmental improvements. lower emissions. obviously. and less global warming. so in a strange way that many of us havent thought about. a vote to repeal the 4.3 cents would really be a vote against the environment and our efforts to reduce emissions in this country and our efforts to curb the global warming that is occurring. so. recognizing that both of my colleagues from florida are very good environmentalists. i urge them to consider that measure when they rise to make their presentations. i thank the chair.
madam president. page 71 of the committee report accompanying the fiscal year 1999 va. hud and independent agencies appropriations bill states that. "[n]one of the funds provided to the epa are to be used to support activities related to implementation of the kyoto protocol prior to its ratification." i want to try to get a clarification on this report language from the distinguished chairman of the va. hud and independent agencies subcommittee. senator bond. i would agree that the epa should  use appropriated funds for the purpose of issuing regulations to implement the kyoto protocol. unless and until such treaty is ratified by the united states. i would like to point out. however. that the united states is a full participating signatory nation to the 1992 framework convention on climate change. under the 1992 framework convention. which was agreed to in rio de janeiro by president bush and later consented to by the u.s. senate. the united states pledged to carry out a wide variety of voluntary initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. these initiatives. being implemented by the epa. the department of energy. and other agencies. are in place today. the congress has funded these initiatives for several years . indeed. long before the december 1997 climate conference in kyoto. japan. these initiatives. the climate challenge program. the program for a new generation of vehicles. green lights. energy star. and others. have to varying degrees reduced greenhouse gas emissions by increasing energy efficiency across a broad range of domestic industrial sectors. they make sense for other reasons. madam president. we have found with these programs and others that our companies and american consumers benefit ecoically. when we conserve resources and reduce energy consumption in a sensible way. we save money. when we research. manufacture arid market new energy efficient goods and services. we create export opportunities and jobs. we also increase u.s. energy security by reducing our dependence on imported oil. natural gas and coal. finally. when we find cost effective ways to reduce greenhouse gases. we oftentimes reduce other air pollutants like mercury. nitrogen oxide. and sulfur dioxide. so. i want to make sure that the committee report language that i cited previously does  interfere with these important and worthwhile efforts. i would ask my friend from missouri if these ongoing energy conservation and climaterelated programs and initiatives. which are  intended to directly implement actions called for under the kyoto protocol. would go forward under this bill.
. i would like to make a few remarks about s. 104. the nuclear waste policy act of last year. i voted against s. 1936. the nuclear waste policy act of 1996 for several reasons. i felt that the measure rushed to build the interim site before the viability of the permanent site was considered. also. under last years bill. nepa. the national environmental policy act. would  have applied until quite late in the game. after great time and resources had been expended. it only would have applied to the licensing of the facility. it wouldnt have applied to construction of the facility at all. finally. the radiation standards provided in s. 1936 were too lax. and epa was virtually shut out of the process of setting such standards. last years bill was a takeitorleaveit proposal. and i chose to leave it. when s. 104 was reported by the energy committee earlier this year. i had every intention of opposing the nuclear waste policy act. s. 104. again. but this year. the energy committee has worked hard to address the concerns that were raised about last years proposal. after reviewing the changes made in the murkowski substitute amendment. i have decided to vote in favor of the bill before us. while it is  perfect. the substitute is a significant improvement over last years bill and this years bill as reported by the energy committee. is it a perfect bill.  at all. but it is a far more reasonable solution to a terribly difficult situation than we have ever had before. years ago. congress rejected reprocessing as an alternative to waste storage. there arent a lot of options when it comes to disposing of nuclear waste. either it stays on site. or it goes to a centralized storage facility. i support centralized storage of nuclear waste. however. i believe that the effects of designating a central site must be considered before such a critical decision is reached. the department of energy is committed to completing a viability study of yucca mountain as the permanent repository by the end of next year. until that study is completed. i feel strongly that there is reason to go forward with an interim facility at the nearby test site in nevada. under last years bill. as well as the bill reported by the committee. the viability study was disregarded. site preparation and construction would begin upon enactment of the legislation. senator bingaman worked closely with senator murkowski and the energy committee to address this issue. the committee substitute amendment specifically precludes any work. beyond generic design. from going forward at the interim site. before the viability study of yucca mountain is completed. i also supported senator bingamans amendment. which would have ensured that the interim storage facility would  become a de facto permanent repository if yucca mountain were deemed to be unsuitable. regrettably. that amendment failed. while i was disappointed with the failure of this amendment. it was  egh to cause me to vote against the bill. simply put. i believe it is highly unlikely that the viability study will be negative. the substitute also strengthens the role of nepa. site preparation. construction. and the use of the interim facility are longer exempt from nepa. in fact. construction at the interim site could proceed before an environmental impact statement is completed by the nuclear regulatory commission. this is an emous improvement over last years bill. which disregarded nepa at every step prior to the licensing of the facility. the process for setting standards to protect the public from radiation at the yucca mountain site also is a marked improvement over previous measures. rather than setting an arbitrary statutory standard. the substitute incorporates recent recommendations made by the national academy of sciences in setting an overall radiation standard for the repository. let me close by saying that the arguments on both sides of this issue have been persuasive. i want to recognize the undaunted persistence of senators bryan and rem in articulating the potential implications of the bill and in arguing relentlessly for the interests of nevada. i also want to commend senator murkowski for his hard work and determination. senator murkowski ably managed this very complex measure and was willing to accept suggestions and changes from other senators that vastly improved the bill. the bill. as passed. did  resolve all of my concerns. but it did resolve most of them.
. and that is as follows. every industrial nation in the world has far higher overall gasoline taxes than we have in this nation. if youtalk to any environmental group. they will say that gasoline taxes result in a reduction in miles traveled by automobiles. in other words. if somebody is encumbered by a gasoline tax. raising the cost of operating his or her vehicle. those people will be more cautious about using their vehicle. or else they will seek out vehicles that get far more miles per gallon than would otherwise be true. so a gasoline tax. matter whether its modest or very substantial. results in environmental improvements. lower emissions. obviously. and less global warming. so in a strange way that many of us havent thought about. a vote to repeal the 4.3 cents would really be a vote against the environment and our efforts to reduce emissions in this country and our efforts to curb the global warming that is occurring. so. recognizing that both of my colleagues from florida are very good environmentalists. i urge them to consider that measure when they rise to make their presentations. i thank the chair.
madam president. page 71 of the committee report accompanying the fiscal year 1999 va. hud and independent agencies appropriations bill states that. "[n]one of the funds provided to the epa are to be used to support activities related to implementation of the kyoto protocol prior to its ratification." i want to try to get a clarification on this report language from the distinguished chairman of the va. hud and independent agencies subcommittee. senator bond. i would agree that the epa should  use appropriated funds for the purpose of issuing regulations to implement the kyoto protocol. unless and until such treaty is ratified by the united states. i would like to point out. however. that the united states is a full participating signatory nation to the 1992 framework convention on climate change. under the 1992 framework convention. which was agreed to in rio de janeiro by president bush and later consented to by the u.s. senate. the united states pledged to carry out a wide variety of voluntary initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. these initiatives. being implemented by the epa. the department of energy. and other agencies. are in place today. the congress has funded these initiatives for several years . indeed. long before the december 1997 climate conference in kyoto. japan. these initiatives. the climate challenge program. the program for a new generation of vehicles. green lights. energy star. and others. have to varying degrees reduced greenhouse gas emissions by increasing energy efficiency across a broad range of domestic industrial sectors. they make sense for other reasons. madam president. we have found with these programs and others that our companies and american consumers benefit ecoically. when we conserve resources and reduce energy consumption in a sensible way. we save money. when we research. manufacture arid market new energy efficient goods and services. we create export opportunities and jobs. we also increase u.s. energy security by reducing our dependence on imported oil. natural gas and coal. finally. when we find cost effective ways to reduce greenhouse gases. we oftentimes reduce other air pollutants like mercury. nitrogen oxide. and sulfur dioxide. so. i want to make sure that the committee report language that i cited previously does  interfere with these important and worthwhile efforts. i would ask my friend from missouri if these ongoing energy conservation and climaterelated programs and initiatives. which are  intended to directly implement actions called for under the kyoto protocol. would go forward under this bill.
. i am delighted to join with the distinguished senator from new hampshire in introducing legislation to abolish the mandatory oil import quota system. the homeheating oil shortage faced by connecticut consumers is only one aspect of a widespread crisis. shortages of various petroleum products in many regions of the united states clearly demonstrate that present policies are counterproductive. we can continue to operate contrary to the realities of our present and future oil resource capabilities. a policy that was set forth in 1959 is  doing the job in 1973. while we might hope for executive action. it has nevertheless been 3 years since a cabinetlevel task force recommended substantial changes in oil import policies. the proposal being introduced today would do hing more than bring the substance of these recommendations to fruition. the time to act has arrived. we are  merely faced with oil distributors who have to reject a homeowners plea for heating oilin the dead of winter. we are faced with hospitals. in connecticut for example. that are paying 16 percent more for oil at a time when they are under emous pressure  to raise charges to patients. we are faced with a drain on  2 heating oil because it is being consumed by the electric companies. who use it to dilute highsulfur domestic crude oil. lowsulfur foreign oil is  available. and yet recent antipollution laws  require lowsulfur content in oils consumed by these companies. while we must act  to alleviate a crisis of untold dimensions. i likewise believe that we must longer simply react to the growing energy crisis. it is imperative that we mount a national campaign to determine enlightened policies and rational sources of inexpensive. clean. and available energy for tomorrows needs.
. at a time of considerable concern in this nation and the world over alternative sources for increasing energy needs. the proven potential of research and development of solar energy has received growing international attention. numerous governments and industrial concerns have initiated substantial investments into the harnessing of solar power for domestic heating and cooling systems and even the generation of electricity. the involvement of the federal government in research in solar energy is indeed increasing. as this years national science foundation budget was raised to over $12 million. nevertheless. this figure represents less than 2 percent of the total government budget for overall energy research and development. recently. over 900 scientists representing many interested countries and organizations met in paris to discuss the projected massive development of solar power in the near and very foreseeable future. an article in newsweek of july 16 details the international conference and the present state of solar energy application in the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the text of that article be printed in the record.
. at a time when america is anguishing over a threatened shortage of conventional energy production. this nation must take advantage of the vast potential of our space program to contribute to alternative energy resource development. one important alternative energy. resource that is attracting increasing attention from scientists and policymakers alike is solar power. the harnessing of mans true source of life. the sun. it has been asserted that solar energy can be  only environmentally safe but also ecoically competitive with other power sources. along with senator moss. the distinguished chairman of the senate coinmittee on aeronautical and space sciences. i have introduced s. 2658. the solar heating and cooling demonstration act of 1973. this legislation focuses the inhouse capabilities. expertise. and experience of nasa on the development of long range answers to the impending energy crisis. the measure will authorize the commercial demonstration of rolar heating and cooling techogies under practical conditions. up to 2.000 solar heating units and 2.000 heating and cooling units would be mass produced and installed in public and private facilities for onsite testing and evaluation. nasa will direct this program. working with various federal departments and agencies to develop appropriate techogies and demonstration criteria. the mossweicker bill is similar to h.r. 10952. introduced in the house by congressman mccormack. with the prospect of emergency energy controls looming in our immediate future. it is imperative that both houses of congress afford these farsighted bills expedited consideration. solar energy is longer in the realm of science fiction. rather it is an irrepressible and important science fact that must  be iged.
i ask the senator. why do you think that you have heard of the potential of a presidential veto on the energy emergency act. why. i k why. because there are checks in there. congressional checks on presidential action. that is why the legislation is susceptible to veto. i am . thank heaven. a tactician in the white house on these matters. but i suspect that there might be the idea that they would go ahead and veto the energy emergency act. and just allow this act to stand as the energy legislation on the books. if that happens. then there are effective congressional checks. the powers which my distinguished colleague from connecticut read to me as being transmitted or turned over to the administrator are sweeping. those powers that the president has under the various laws of the land can be turned over to the administrator. and believe me. king the way power is interpreted down there. that means almost anything. so i can agree. i think we are on ice. we are on ice. as far as i am concerned. that what sticks in the craw downtown is the potential of a congressional check on this agency. we are on ice. and if we choose to ige it. then. as i said. we are stuck with the results. there is all the great language in the world here. and the energy administrator has to ccme and report to the various committees as to what is going on. but there is hing to say he is going to relinquish one bit of the power we give him today. in the event this bill is approved.
does the senator from washington k that in connecticut. for example. the independents. i gather. are possibly considering forming a consortium to buy some spot gasoline from canada. and if that happens. such gasoline will be selling at 75 cents a gallon. i recall the initial debate on the floor of the senate. we were debating whether or  we should put a tax on gasoline. and we all agreed that it would be unfair to the poor. what we have done is to permit this matter to get so far out of hand that it is indeed unfair to the poor. and this time i define poor  by a few people at the lower end of the spectrum but by defining who the rich are. and only they will be able to afford gasoline.
the senator from connecticut has already expressed his reservation as to mandatory rationing. there is a problem of getting gasoline through the short term. which relates to rationing. however. for the long term. it relates to explorative mass transit. solar energy. and so forth.
the senator from alaska can describe his vote. i will speak for mine. i would only say that what we are looking for. is that everybody be treated fairly. under the present system. when we leave enforcement. when we leave the solution. to the gasoline retailers and the state governments. such can happen. the panic. the crisis. is going to go ahead and get worse. insofar as the longrange policies. are concerned. those that been alluded to by the distinguished senator from arizona and the distinguished senator from wyoming. about the need to encourage exploration. about mass transit being made available. about solar energy being made available. the fact is that e of these are available to the american people. and they will  be available to the american people for some time. the first relief might come in 6 months to 1 year. but most of the things we are talking about here are a matter of 1 or 2 years. and i do  think the people of this country want to live like animals for that long. so i would hope. regardless of the longrange policies--the senator from washington. upon the adoption of this conference report. should hold hearings on rationing. we should  say. "we gave the power to the president. but he did  use it." we all ought to stand up and be counted on that issue
. during the debate on the emergency energy bill late last year. i. along with 39 other senators. voted in favor of mandatory rationing. since that time. we have witnessed severe spot shortages and panic buying in various regions of the country as a result of a fragmented statebystate approach to a national problem. effective national leadership is essential to insure an equitable sharing of the burden. the time has come to understand that this is a national crisis and it requires a national solution. an effective rationing program would allay the fears of motorists reacting to uncertain conditions. i am confident the american people can comply to a uniform rationing scheme. just as they adjusted their lifestyles in response to governmental appeals to conserve fuel supplies. but so long as we sacrifice pollution standards and fail to take positive action for gas rationing. i can support the emergency energy act conference report.
 play "hot potato" with their means of livelihood. and if the gas retailer is the next to bottom rung of the ladder. the consumer has been made the bottom rung because. of our failure to act at the federal level. people are behaving like animals. instead of a- tiger in our tank.  we have one behind the wheel. and the target of their abuse is the man behind the pump. as- i have said on a. number of occasions. you can stop emotions at. a gas station lot. town or state boundary line. any more than you can stop air pollution at a town or state boundary line. this gasoline shortage is just too big to handle at the local or state level. and congress is going to- have to come to grips with that fact. we are one nation. and we have one energy crisis. the arabs did  boycott connecticut. they boycotted the u.s.a. any solution that works is going to require an equal sacrifice from every state and every citizen. but in return we gain the kledge that we are working together.  neighbor against neighbor. town against town. state against state. and while we are dwelling on the national character of the gasoline shortage. let me dredge up a phrase that has been kicked around quite a bit during the past year and a half: "national security." a lot of questionable and illegal government acts have been justified in the name of "national security." but if anything was ever crucial to genuine "national security." it is- a comprehensive federal program to reduce energy consumption and encourage discovery of fuels old and new. the reasons for this should be obvious. rationing would prove to any nation that we will  be subject to ecoic blackmail. it will show that we are absolutely serious about eliminating our dependence on foreign oil sources. and. most important. it would strengthen secretary kissingers hand in mideast negotiations and increase the chances of a lifting of the boycott. rationing would render the boycott pointless and ierative. more than any policy we could adopt. it would hasten an end to the arab oil boycott. the federal energy act fails to include a mandatory- system of gasoline rationing: to reduce consumption and spread the burden. is the situation really serious egh to warrant rationing. the truth is all right there on the table. you do  need any inside dope or any investigative reporting. use the federal energy offices own statistics. they say that for the month of february there is a nationwide 14 percent shortage of gasoline. we all k it is a lot bigger in connecticut. but. just for the sake of argument. let us. accept the 14 percent figure. do senators k what kind of a shortage the feo is predicting for may. twenty percent to 25 percent. it is obvious that what the opponents of rationing are gambling on is a quick end to the arab oil boycott. that has been hinted at for over a month . but even assuming for a minute that it ended tomorrow. how long would it take for more gasoline to reach the pumps. again. we will use the statistics supplied by the federal energy office. they say it would take 3 months. that would be march. april. may. if the boycott does  end until march. then we are talking about april. may. and june. by the federal energy offices own calculations we have prospect of getting a boost from arab oil before the end of may. we have a shortage that will get at least 50 percent worse by may.. and people say we still do  need rationing. today i would like to ask: who is kidding who. even if the boycott ended tomorrowand. it wil even if every state received its fair share and it does even if the distribution system were working perfectly and it is we still would have a national crisis. on our hands. and rationalizing is substitute for rationing. the main problem with the concept of rationing is its public relations image. everybody seems to think that rationing inevitably means the coupontype system which was used in world war ii. with its. emous bureaucracy and gigantic costs. that is  using very much imagination. there are a number of ways to institute rationing without suffering the drawbacks of the coupon system. one possible plan i have suggested is incorporated in a letter to mr. simon. which i ask unanimous consent to have. printed in the record.
but whatever plan the feo use. the point is: we need rationing . all our efforts to get an equitable distribution of gasoline are pointless if we do hing to reduce the consumption of gasoline. and we have long since passed the point where driving tips and 55milesanhour limits are the answer to reduced consumption. that is why i am introducing the mandatory gas rationing act of 1974. this legislation would leave it up to the president to pick the type of rationing system. he feels. would be most effective. but it would require him to institute that system within 30 days of passage of the bill. . it is late in the day. and we need hardeyed appraisals instead of dreamyeyed promises. americans can conserve gasoline. and they will conserve gasoline. but they need something more to count on than aher mideast meeting. it is time for congress to stand up and be counted.
. the senate will soon consider s. 2744. the energy reorganization act of 1973. within the framework of this legislation. s. 2744 creates an energy research and development administration. it is  imperative that the senate act expeditiously on this landmark legislation and provide the necessary congressional responsibility for erda. with this in mind. i have today joined as a cosponsor of senate resolution 352. introduced by senators goldwater and moss on june 27. amending the standing rules of the senate to confer upon the committee on aeronautical and space sciences jurisdiction over the energy research and development administration. when enacted. this past year our nation faced a severe energy crunch. the congress was hamstrung in facing the crisis proportions of this situation because so many congressional committees claimed jurisdiction over energy matters. to avoid a repetition of the crisis of fragmentation of energy responsibility. the senate should insure a unified approach to energy research and development. for this reason i cosponsor. and recommend that the senate approve. responsibility of erda through this resolution to one appropriate committee. aeronautical and space sciences. throughout the past 16 years the committee on aeronautical and space sciences has done the job in providing the congressional oversight and initiative to promote and direct our pioneering efforts in space. today we have a new techogical challenge: the exploding need for clean and affordable energy in a rapidly changing world. i believe that the efforts of erda to meet the demands in this area should come under the jurisdiction of the same committee which did so well in guiding our space program. if we can lead and coordinate the national quest for energy selfsufficiency just as we reached the moon with the monumental apollo program. americans at the vey least can expect aher giant step for mankind.
in just a minute. one year of taxing the poor and the elderly is equally good. the time is  for all to share in the uncomfortable taskand i mean uncomfortable according to political traditionsof conservation. if we do. the price of gasoline will come down. furthermore. it will hold the line on spiraling fuel prices. while we develop mass transit. while we develop smaller cars. while we reconstruct our architecture so that we do  have airconditioning all year long. and while we develop alternative sources of energy. such as solar energy. the alternative. as the senator from montana has stated. is the continued outflow of dollars to other nations and the ecoic ruin of this nation
rather. it seems to me. it is incumbent upon all members of congress to  tell the whole truth piece by piecethe solid truth. to the american people. let them understand the depth of the problem and the extent of the sacrifice required. this essentially was the mistake of the president. going from win buttons to tariffs. believe me. the democrats are making the same mistake when they talk about oil taxes. and that we postpone or we gear such to a resumption of employment. hing can be achieved in the area of conservation except with a great deal of sacrifice and some substantial discomfort on the part of the american people. take a careful look at our energy consumption figures. pea estimates total daily oil demand at 18.2 million barrels per day and rising. gasoline consumption has risen by 300.000 barrels per day since september. it is business as usual. we have  done a thing.  a thing. since october of 1973. as long as we want to hold on to this lifestyle. we can get this country out of its ecoic bind. we must pay the price and cut down on the demand. we must create new sources of energy. those systems such as mass transit. which require less energy. but. as i say. that is in the long haul. so.  is hardpressing the democrats in order to make them look foolish. the fact is that there are people out of work. the fact is that the inflation continues. the fact is that the dollars by the billions go overseassome $24 billion for oil alone in 1974. very frankly. it is  something that we can sit around for the next couple of months and hash over. as every day goes by. aher person goes out of work. somebody else freezes. and that particular day drains aher $75-$85 million from the shores of this country. i would hope we would get right down to the business of reality and leave the business of politics behind. there is hing we can do. i think. that would reestablish as much credibility in the congress of the united states and in public officials
i appreciate the comments of the distinguished senator from oregon. for those people who feel that they really have  been affected by the energy crisis. what i am trying to say is that the joblessness we have in this country is directly related to the energy crisis. so it is  just a question of  being able to drive or having your thermostat lower. it could very well be that because the united states has  conserved. a person is out of a jobprobably is. as a matter of fact. if we trace the history of this entire matter. so these things are  separate and apart. by any manner of means. all i speak for here today is what has to be done. what everybody ks has to be done. which is conservationconservation until we get these longrange solutions into place. last night. i had the good fortune to speak with the leadership of my party. and the statement was made again to try to throw the fear of god in anybody: if anybody wants to step out there and saw that a rationing program would have to last 5 years or longer. let him say it. well. i am saying it. yes. democrat or republican. you are kidding the american people if you tell them this is going to last for 6 months or a year. there is way.  until the exploration comes onstream or until the mass transit is built. yes. it is a 5year proposition. but if we had put this type of plan into effect a year ago. the eventual solution would be a lot easier. we postpone and postpone. and eventually we are going to have a system that is going to be so darned tight that we will say. "my god. why did we  do this gradually 2 years ago."
i can assure the senator my constituents are far more interested in the energy situation and the weakness of the u.s. position than they are in rule xxii. does the distinguished senator from alabama realize that in june of 1974. under the distinguished leadership of senator ervin of th carolina. the factfinding group kn as the watergate committee issued its report. and the senate of the united states has yet to enact one single piece of legislation. based on that factfinding. relating to the abuses uncovered in our political processes. et cetera. in other words. what i am asking the senator from alabama is i find it incredible and totally irrelevant at this time. with these matters having gone on as long as they have. that we are sitting here and expending this amount of time. this amount of energy. this amount of brainpower on what is very much of a philosophical. academic question. i want to make one point. as the senator from alabama ks. ever since i have been in the senate i have  wanted to change rule xxii. rule xxii has never blocked what the nation really wanted.
i  direct my comments to the distinguished majority leader. i honestly hope that. in order to give some substance to our credibility as leaders of this nation. we would stay at this matter until it is resolved. i find it a little difficult to say. but in this chamber we have one of the greatest crises ever confronting the country. and everybody takes off for the weekend. a great deal has been building up in me on this matter. as i said beforei do  think the distinguished majority leader was in the chamberthe fact is that. for example. we have yet to address ourselves to the energy crisis which commenced in october of 1973. and here it is february of several of us have worked our backsides off to get some facts before the american people as to the abuses of government. and we have yet to pass one piece of legislation on that factfinding.  we sit here with this crisis. listen. all i am saying is. never mind what we do in the way of surface show. i think it is time we set an example. a lot of people are out of work. if this measure is  passed. more people will be out of work. if it means that we have to be here and keep our es to the grindstone. i suggest that is what we should do. i happen to kwhether it is energy or what have youthat the senator from montana has been the greatest in insisting that we do these things. but i am very uneasy about leaving this matter. which i have been led to believe is urgent. and letting it hang. while we go to our various delights. whatever they happen to consist of. during the next 48 hours.
i think it important to point out it was in an attempt to achieve a compromise. or getting together of the parties. the distinguished senator from indiana forebore. if you will. filing a cloture petition. i think that ought to be stated on his behalf. that people were at loggerheads. he was  trying to throw fuel in the fire. but trying to get people together where we could move. make mistake about it. having endured the ridiculousness of saturday and the inability of the leadership and various parties to get together. i do  k what the senator from indiana is going to do. i suspect he has in the back of his mind filing the petition. if he does  by the end of today. i will by the end of today.
. in my opinion. we could begin  to achieve substantial energy savings in new buildings if we adopt the simple standard i have outlined. we could reduce our growing use of energy for airconditioning simply by constructing buildings so our offices and shops would be opened to the -natural environment. such a standard for greater thermal efficiency in new construction represents a major step toward overall energy consciousness in the design and structure of buildings of the future in the united states. i believe this amendment takes an important first step by strongly urging the administrator of gsa to include. to the maximum extent practical. such a standard in the construction of new federal buildings. so i would hope this is something that could be accepted by the managers of the bill. i think it will be interesting to see what. in fact. does occur in the way of energy savings. i think there are many times when we are in these allenclosed buildings when. indeed. if the windows were open the airconditioning would  have to be on. the same would hold true so far as warmer air is concerned. with that in mind. this could well be called a pilot project. however. if successful. i think it should be mandated in our construction rules in the future.
. i am concerned that recent criticism of the use of nuclear energy does  reflect an objective analysis of this countrys energy position. i do  believe that this criticism has fully taken into account the history of nuclear power development and utilization in this country and the consequences for the future of abandonment of growth in the nuclear energy industry. i am  and can be convinced. simply from the plain facts of the matter. that nuclear fission power is unsafe or unnecessary. i can fully appreciate the safety concerns of interested parties over the widescale use of nuclear energy. indeed. in the past. critics of nuclear power have played an important role in facilitating constructive change and improvement in the nuclear power industry. however. here is a need for informed and balanced discussion on the subject of nuclear energy. recent criticism has clearly distorted the facts and gone beyond the point of being constructive. i would like to offer some brief factual analysis that might shed a little light upon the subject of nuclear energy. does the utilization of nuclear energy present a serious threat to the welfare of american citizens. commercial nuclear reactors have existed in the united states since 1957. today. there are some 55 nuclear powerplants licensed to operate in the united states. generating a capacity of approximately 40.000 megawatts. or about 9 percent of the nations electric generating capacity. in these past 19 years of operation of commercial nuclear reactors member of the general public has ever been seriously injured by an accidental release of radioactivity or by the failure of a nuclear reactor. nuclear liability insurance claim payments for all major nuclear activity by private enterprise since 1957 have totaled only $540.000. the great majority of this money was paid in connection with separate incidents involving claims from two workers in the nuclear power industry. the fact is that the safety record of the nuclear power industry. as evidenced over a 19year period. is outstanding. the question then is what is the probability of a major accident connected with the use of nuclear energy assuming expansion of present facilities. dr. man rasmussen. of mit. whose recent studies represent the most formidable inquiry into the matter of nuclear energy and the public safety has attempted to answer this question. the rasmussen report itemizes the natural and mancaused disasters of the past as a basic frame of reference for risk assessment. let us look at some examples:
i wish the senator was here. it seems to me he is making so much of my own argument in this matter. except that he wants to go to the american arbitration association and i want to go to new hampshire. he states: i remain of the view that the actual counting of the new hampshire ballots. and as much as possible of the procedural decisionmaking relative to the new hampshire senate election contest. should  be done by elected individuals. but should have been delegated to a neutral body chosen from a panel recommended by the american arbitration association or other impartial source and agreed upon by the contestants. those words spring at youneutral. impartial. again. and i do  want to put words into his mouth. what is in the back of his mind is viewed from the outside. just by the nature of the party lines in the senate. 61 to 38just by the nature of thatpeople are going to think it is impossible for us to arrive at an impartial or a neutral decision. i might add that is very much compounded when you have situations such as we went over in depth in manchester. where the committee going up there is handled in a manner which excludes the miity counsel. obviously. you compound that type of an image. here we are confronted with the first problem. matter how good our intentions. matter how replete with integrity is every member. we obviously are going to be judged in the light of the circumstances that exist by people who are  privy to a personal kledge that we have of each other. therefore. far better to have a neutral body make the decision. an impartial body make the decision. as i say. he suggested the american arbitration association. i suggested the voters of new hampshire. such a procedure would have permitted the committee and the senate to have fulfilled its clear constitutional responsibility in regard to the election by reviewing the work of the impartial panel. in other words. i concede this is our constitutional responsibility. our right. there is argument there at all. but what he is suggesting here is aher method. just as i am suggesting aher method. i do  believe. however. that we. as senators. were chosen by our constituents to spend 212 hours in the course of 46 days on ballotcounting and procedural questions. to the detriment of our other responsibilities. multiply the days and hours by eight.--the number of members serving on the committee--and the result is a tremendous amount of time and effort and expense. i have  used that argument. the argument of other urgent business as a reason for our washing our hands of this matter. i had to go through all that business 2 years ago. that there were other great problems in the nation and we should  have paid attention to the matters that were before us then. that is  it. it is  the spending of so much that bothers me. what bothers me is that this is  the best forum. we are  the best equipped to make the decision. the best forum is new hampshire. because the people of new hampshire are best equipped to make the decision as to who is going to represent them here. somebody in this body might be able to make a decision as to whether or  we are going to move forward in the area of solar energy because. indeed. they have that particular expertise. or what to do relative to urban problems. and so on down the line. that is fine. but in this instance. in this type of decision. the expertise resides in new hampshire. i would hope the distinguished senator from rhode island would arrive here if anyone thinks that what i am advocating in principle is a republican theory. then i suggest they read mr. pells views. we are espousing. even though the specifics are different. the exact same principle
what this amendment does.  coming to the white house a real race as to who is doing the most. the fact is i have never seen such energy and resolve since i have been here. but it is exhibited on a partisan matter.  it makes absolutely sense. it just defies all logic and i hale given up. i confess i have given up. i have given up trying to go ahead and bring forth the logic or the illogic or the legality or illegality of the specifies of this resolution. it does  make any difference. all that makes a difference is that the positions have hardened to the point where hing can get done either on new hampshire or on the united states of america: if that is the case. then i think let us be done with it. let us send it back to the people to enable them to elect their u.s. senator
. i would hope that we could vote on this amendment almost immediately. the amendment of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania specifically would declare the seat vacant as of this evening. and that means that as of this evening the senate could concentrate its efforts on the energy crisis. could concentrate its efforts on the job crisis-
i pay my compliment to him. but the fact is that this is  legislation of first impression. or that we do  k what is going to happen. we have lived 2 years with controls in the united states and an opec cartel. the combination of the two. of the cartel and the controls on our own prices. has given risen to unparalleled prices in fuel. decline in oil production. and unparalleled unemployment. i suggest to the senator it is all right--
this is on the time of the miity. i am saying today the time has come  only to go ahead and resolve our energy crisis. but to go ahead and gut opec. if you will. to where they can call the tune here in this country. there it is. is anybody satisfied with continuing the opec cartel with controls. we shall  do anything. we are  going to legislate for the opec nations. the only thing we can do is take care of our part of the problem. if we do. believe me they will change their policies. as i said. if we want to get the quickest response of all. just go ahead and decontrol and also put on mandatory fuel conservation. a combination of those two would really rile them. but apparently there are  egh guts on either side to go ahead and take both of those programs together. for anybody to stand before the american people and sort of imply that we should continue controls in light of this history defies logic and it defies the facts. i am  going to stand up here and say that. necessarily. decontrol is  going to hurt. any more than the mandatory fuel conservation. but i do repeat what i said: there is such thing as a free luhch. the people of new york city got free lunches for many. many years. and what a famine there is there . the time has come to go ahead and give some very tough answers around here. i think we will find for both of us. republican and democrat. it will be emously rewarding. with the senators permission. unless there are some further comments. i would like to go to where i can pay for my lunch.
. i rise to express my opposition to any pay raise for members of congress. under public law 9482. which i supported. the military. federal judges. federal employees. members of congress. and officials of the executive branch will receive. for the first time. a costofliving increase under the federal pay comparability act of 1970. unfortunately. congress does  deserve a pay raise. in the past. i have continually stated my strong belief that a raise in congressional salaries is needed. the time has come to earn it. to vote this raise in the face of congress failure to deal with the nations needs is gross. the american people are asking how a congress which can vote energy policy can vote itself a pay raise. i do  have an answer. therefore. i will cast a vote of protest. the only vote possible against both an 8.6percent and a 5percent increase. i will vote present.
i thank the distinguished senator from arizona. . the unemployment rate in my state of connecticut continues to rise. as i have often stated. the gasoline lines of 1973 were replaced by the unemployment lines today. the sudden boost in fuel prices in 1973 raised havoc with our ecoy. we are still feeling the effects todayuntil we begin to resolve this energy crisis. the united states will remain ecoic pris.. oners of war to an oil cartel. we must face up to some tough decisions and recognize the simple ecoic facts of life. the most basic truth of allthe law of supply and demand must be followed. never mind how tough it may be on the congress politically. mandatory conservation means lower demand. price decontrol means greater supply. the combination means a way out of the ecoic hell that has wracked this country. in my state of connecticut in particular. i am hopeful that the housesenate conference committee will agree on an energy policy that puts this nation on the road to energy selfsufficiency.
. i sincerely hope that my colleagues give serious consideration to the implications of the legislation before us today. we must understand that energy independence for america will  be achieved without cost or sacrifice. as i stated on the floor during my speech on oil and gasoline. there is such thing as a free lunch. politicians try to keep selling that theory. fortunately. the american people have gotten smarter and recognize a lie when they see it and hear it. we may reject the tough answers . but one will benefit by that shortsighted course of action. for it is my strong feeling that if the congress decides to continue and even extend a restrictive policy over natural gas. we will all pay very dearly for it in the near future. i e that when it came to the vote on deregulation relative to fuel oil. when i voted to deregulate. i was the only new england senator to do so. people indicated that was foolhardy. politically unwise. or and that i. was anticonsumer. i k the govers and political figures in the various states that are facing severe unemployment that do  have egh natural gas are starting to hedge. a little deregulation is in order on some of the gas. well. i do  understand why that applies in the gas area but  the fuel oil area. either the theory of deregulation and bringing additional supplies and. therefore. lowering the price can stand the test and is a good theory or it is . it is a good theory. the only thing that makes it bad is politics. the only reason why this illogic. insanity flies. is that the american people have  yet been thoroughly educated on the ecoics of the situation. so the politicians prey on that lack of kledge. but there is a price to pay. postpone. postpone all you will. but eventually the price has to be paid. i stated several weeks ago in a speech in new york that i am sure the people of the city of new york today have a far different view of the commitments that were made by politicians years ago in new york city and a far different view of their own silence to those commitments. today. than they did then. i said in that same speech. so that my good friend from new york will  feel miffed at all. that i do  think new york is the only situation where the politicians are postponing decisions to the future and having the future pay for them. that same postponing philosophy is going on right here in washington. d.c. the time has come to go ahead and stop it. if we are going to stick it to our kids. let us tell them what we are doing. let us have the honesty to stand up and say so. whether it is natural gas. whether it is fuel oil. whether it is aher bill. tell them what it is we are going to go ahead and do. do  give them 1930 and 1940 style politics in 1975. somehow they look a little askance. they can quite understand why we have  received the message here. and we have . all we are leading up to. if we vote for the hollingsglenn bill. is aher confrontation such as we have had on fuel oil. senators bentsen and pearson. i think. in their substitute. are trying to have us act as statesmen. to act . as i said. we can go to the extreme. yes. i reluctantly voted against senator fannin. and certainly i would  be for senator hollings. i realize that action is demanded of the senate. today if. indeed. we are going to resolve this winters crisis and if. indeed. for the first time. we are going to engage in a leadership exercise which is meaningful to our childrens future.
i concur with the comments made by the distinguished senator from louisiana and i think it ought to be pointed out that if anybody throughout his careerand i might add the career of his familyhas fought against bigness in business. the senator has. there is question about it. but that is aher issue. ody is trying to absolve the oil companies. i am sure they have a share in the fault visavis the energy companies. i think big business has gotten too big in this country. but let us take that problem separately. i just ask the question around the chamber: the sponsors of this bill say there are 16 big oil companies in this country. i ask the senator as a guess. how many big computer manufacturers are there in this country. i would say probably three or four. iow many farm machinery companiesbig onesare there. three or four. in my own state of connecticut. the biggest manufacturer of commercial jet engines. probably about two. general electric and pratt & whitney. copiersxerox. again in my state. again one or two are big in that field. i am saying. and i think the senator understands as i do. yes. there has been a concentration of power in business. but that is something to which congress should address itself rather than use that to shift the focus of responsibility in energy away from the congress. that is our responsibility. when we get done with that. fine. let us go after the concentration of power that has occurred in both business and labor. i might add. but let us  get off the subject of the energy problem here today. i have to leave the floor. but i want to commend the senator from louisiana for his comments. neither one of us is trying to speak for big business today. what we are trying to do is solve a crisis and stop the demagoguery. in effect. which takes the focus off congress with regard to the energy problem when it is the responsibility of congress to resolve it.
. my decision to support this amendment has  been an easy one. as my colleagues are aware. the state of connecticut has a number of both large and small defense contractors. both general electric and the pratt & whitney division of united techogies are headquartered in my state. in addition. there are any number of subcontractors who would stand to benefit from a decision to go ahead with the f18 program. however. in addition to the contractors. subcontractors. and employees who would be directly benefited by the f18 program. there is a larger consideration. there is a consideration. in these days of inflation. unemployment. and high taxes. of the general worth of this program for all who must bear its costs. i am committed to hing less than the best possible defense and the best equipment available to maintain that defense. armed with the facts. i am prepared to make that decision. however. the facts in this particular case are only on paper and have yet to be tested. they have  been translated into hardware. the risks have  been thoroughly explored. based on the information which we have available at this time. i am  prepared to conclude that the commitment of large amounts of taxpayers funds to the f18 is warranted. i can ask my constituents to support a program which shows high potential for unacceptable cost growth.
. i commend the distinguished senator fromohio for bringing this matter to the attention of the senate. and i thank my colleague. senator ribicoff. for speaking out strongly in behalf of this project. as i have stated many times. whether we are talking about railroads or housing or any of the other critical needs for this nation. they can only be resolved with techogy that is pointed toward the future. there is point in using yesterdays solution. there is point in being satisfied with today. we have a problem facing usthe energy crisis. if we want to get out of it. there has to be motion and. hopefully. motion into the future with items such as the fuel cell. since i have been a member of the senate. i have heard a great deal of crying and seen a lot of wringing of hands relative to the energy crisis. but when it comes to putting the dollars on the line to get us out of it. everybody shrinks away. i k that if we use our techogy and our ecoic resources. we can be independent and we can have lowcost energy. on the other hand. if we want to keep things just as they are. which we will do if we do  accept this amendment. then. believe me. we will continue in a state of crisis. with highpriced energy. in short supply. i commend the senator from ohio. i hope my colleagues will accept this amendment.
. the senate commerce committee has scheduled hearings on this and similar legislation for april 27 and 28. on behalf of the sponsors of this bill. i invite the comments of my colleagues in the senate on this important subject. expedited congressional consideration of electric utility rate reform issues is of highest priority. the interests of electric consumers and of the national energy policy make it imperative.
i mean that we address ourselves to the following subjects: conservation. mandatory or otherwise. decontrol. and deregulation. in other words. the overall spectrum both of use and of supply. . how we address ourselves. or what various peoples position is. that. to me. is  as important as that we finally recognize that unless we deal with the matter of use and the matter of supply there is energy program for this nation. i would hope that prior to our adjournment for the summer recessbecause if we do  act prior to that time. there will be program next winterboth these matters will have had the attention of the senate and the house of representatives.
. i concur with the comments made by the distinguished senator from new mexico. as a prelude to the remarks and the actions to be taken by the distinguished senator from illis and the rest of my colleagues. i think it important to point out that. in 1970. i was elected to the u.s. senate and was assigned to the committee on cpmmerce until 1972. at that time. under discussion in the committee on commerce was a natural gas bill. after the elections of 1972. i got bumped off the committee on commerce and did  return until 1975. much to my amazement. guess what they were discussing after a 2year hiatus. the natural gas bill. here we are. today. with an emergency natural gas bill. i think the record will clearly show that this matter has been in our hands and we have failed to act for at least 5 years. i have deep concern. as does the distinguished senator from new mexico. and i think even the distinguished senator from louisiana expressed it. that. unless there is some sort of crisis. action will be taken and we shall just lead ourselves into aher crisis. that is why we have the attempt to get some sort of commitment out of the democratic leadership. which has controlled both the committees and this body since i have been here. to address themselves to the longrange problem. it is  my intention. and i k it is  the intention of the senator from new mexico or anybody on this side. to hold the american people hostage for something congress has failed to do. but i can assure you. i intend to hold the senate hostage for what it fails to do in subsequent legislative periods. unless we act. and there is  one of us who does  understand the concept of lead time hereindeed. by the time we act today. it will have little effect on the crisis we are in. and the american people should k thatbut if we acted. literally. today. it might have some effect on next winter. because that is the lead time that is going to be required. so. let the record clearly show the inaction by the u.s. senate over 5 years on this very subject. the failure to come to any sort of policy. the fact of the bind we are in has hing to do with arctic air masses or cold weather. it has to do with hard failure to respond realistically or positively to the energy crisis in this nation. i respect the wishes. i guess is the only way commitmentas so eloquently expressed by the majority leaderi respect that. but i hope that my colleagues on the other side will get their act toa gether. as they have  been able to do. . for 5 years. and assure the american people that they will  find themselves a year from  with the terrible suffering and crisis which is with us today.
i thank the senator from colorado. i associate myself with all of his comments. . this brings me to the principal point that i wish to make on this business of clean air. energy. and employment. this body has been in session for almost 4 years during which time significant energy proposals have come forth that would conserve our scarce fuel sources or explore and discover additional energy. hing. all that has happened in terms of conservation is a pricing system that in effeet has taken the poorest americans. those on fixed income. the elderly. poor. and forced them to conserve. that has  been congress acting. it has been the inaction of congress that created that situation. but indeed it has been the pricing mechanism of the domestic and world markets. what is it with this country that we can go and toe the mark and do what is necessary. indeed those that are better off should take the burden on their shoulders rather than dumping it on the weakest of our citizens. and yet that is. in effect. what is transpiring in this chamber. certainly i can understand the selfinterest of the distinguished senator from michigan. if we were discussing aircraft engines i might very well be out here pushing a particular point of view.
. i will be brief on this amendment. at such time as we have sufficient senators in the chamber. i will ask for the yeas and nays on the previous amendment and this one. what is involved here is a different form of what was discussed in the previous amendment. in this case. this would be a closing of gasoline stations from 6 p.m. on saturday evening to 5 a.m.. on monday morning. again. i realize that there are those who will yell loud and long as to the various ways this will inconvenience them. again i have to repeat that.  1. plan that is worth its salt is  going to involve inconvenience.  2. a great number of americans. particularly the weakest elements of our society. already have been far more than inconvenienced. they. in eff.)ct. have been shut out. so i repeat that the essence of this amendment. very simply. means the closing of all retail gasoline pumps in the united states from 6 p.m. on saturday to 5 a.m. on the next immediately following monday. with an exception being made for all agricultural. commercial. and public service vehicles. i can only promise this to my colleagues: should they adopt the amendment which. in effect. would require each of us to pick one day of the week when we will  put our car on the road. then i will be glad to withdraw this amendment. because i do  feel that both steps are necessary. if we are willing to take one. that should be sufficient. but i fully expect to get blown out of the water on amendment  1. therefore. i would repeat my request for some form of mandatory conservationin this sense. gas station closings as set forth in this amendment.
. we must recognize the fact that there are a significant number of poor people in this country who have been severely affected by such runaway energy costs. based upon figures compiled by the 1970 u.s. census. 11 percent of all families nationwide live in poverty and 23 percent of all innercity families are poor. added to this is the startling fact that 57 percent of elderly unrelated individuals live in poverty. what is more. according to a 1973 report by the senate select committee on nutrition and human needs. rent or mortgage payments take up 50 percent or more of the income of our nations poor. the federal government has been slow to respond to the needs of the elderly and the poor in coping with inflationary fuel costs. on february 25. 1974. senator javits introduced s. 3051. a bill which would have provided $100 million to the office of ecoic opportunity for the funding of special energy crisis related programs. the bill died in committee. since that time. the senate has  significantly addressed itself to this problem. i therefore introduce my amendment to demonstrate to the american poor and elderly that congress does indeed have a great deal of concern for their welfare. with the implementation of an energy stamp program. which is designed to complement weatherization plans. these citizens will  be forced to freeze in their homes. as was the case with many during the winter of 1976 and  let me explain in brief the various sections of this bill.
. i thank the distinguished senator from louisiana for his comments. if i may address the senator from louisiana for a few minutes. i agree 100 percent with his remarks directed against what admittedly is a deficiency in the amendment. it was merely an oversight on the part of this senator. there was attempt to create this legislation in terms of thern climes. the senator is correct when he said that heat is as acute in his part of the country as cold is in mine. i would be willing to modify the amendment. and ask unanimous consent to so modify the amendment. to state in the definition section that the term "heating fuel" means electricity. oil. gas. coal. or any other fuel used in a household as the primary source for heating or cooling the dwelling. i realize this does  meet all objections the senator has. but i would ask that the amendment be so modified to dispense with that aspect.
i appreciate the comments of the senator from louisiana in the sense of what it is that the administration is trying to a:hieve in the way of a comprehensive program. i would agree that certainly a comprehensive response to the problem of poverty. to the problem of joblessness. to the problems of malnutrition and igance. is called for. clearly. our present welfare program is  working. on the other hand. i think we have recognized that the basic necessities of life deserve attention and support by this government. it was only 4 years ago that energy was placed in that category. before that. ody had any problem with their utility bills. ody had any problem with gasoline or anything relating to energy. because we had cheap energy. then. because of our consumption habits and the federal government stifling exploration and production. we ended up in the crisis which confronts us today. what i am saying is that i can let aher winter or aher summer go by while we wait on the u.s. government to arrive at this comprehensive solution. during which period of time people will die either from heat exposure or from exposure to cold. that is exactly what is going to happen. as has been clearly stated. as a matter of fact. it is a matter of record. i am  advocating this amendment as a permanent solution. but i do think the problem has to be met head on . prior to the onset of winter. i can assure senators there is chance that any sort of a comprehensive program is going to be passed by this congress prior to the onset of a cold winter. there is chance. the senator ks how the congress acts in the area of concern to him. natural gas deregulation. i went on the commerce committee in 1971 or 1972. i believe. the first day i arrived on the committee they were dis:ussing deregulation. then i was bumped off the committee. because the republicans lost some seats in congress. i was off for 2 years. i think i came back into it in 1974. guess what happened. i walked into the room in 1974 and they were discussing the same bill on gas deregulation that they were discussing in 1972. the senator ks they are discussing that bill right . and here it is 1977. i might add. and this is very much a case in point. because of our inability to act for 5 years we have totally stifled and eliminated additional exploration and production. that is one of the reasons we are in this bind. that is one of the reasons i am going to support deregulation. contrary to what is supposed to be the pattern of politics and selection of issuesa theastern state senator. a consumer state senator. is  supposed to support deregulationi am going to support it. as far as i am concerned. i want the people in the senators state to be out looking for every cubic foot of gas and every drop of oil they can find. that will eventually get my people off the hook. we should  sit here and artificially control something. as i said. in the meantime. while government acts. people are suffering. it is as simple as that. i do support deregulation. though i understand the higher price which would be associated with that. i k the higher price is associated with  i have further comments on this matter.
reserving the right to object. this body. in order to meet the events scheduled deliberated aroundtheclock on the issue of deregulationi am  sure very intelligentlyand to me. i suppose i would use the words of thoreau when he said the question is  whether or  we are busy but what are we busy about. very frankly. having been on an aroundtheclock schedule to try to meet a then october 7 deadline. which i thought was ridiculous to begin with. we then proceeded to go ahead and take days off and hours off. i have to say that i am a little bit weary of what it is that is being done here merely to get through or get passage of a bill. i would suggest that as soon as the senator from massachusetts is through with his endeavorsi think it is important that we deliberate these things in the cold light of day.  at the end of 12 hoursand. as i say. i will be glad to stay here all night. and i will stay here all night. but it is my intention. i will tell my colleagues just that. that when we get through with the amendment of the senator from massachusetts. if i can receive recognition i will be glad to go ahead and discuss the energy bill.  one that is entrusted to any one or two individuals on the floor of this body or entrusted to one making a schedule. but a bill that makes sense. if it means we spend saturday here. that is fine. if we spend next week here. that is fine. when i got here to serve in this session. i did  expect to be out until christmas. and i have hing else to do. so i have hing much further to say really on this issue except that i think it is timeand i serve on that conference. and we have been serving and meeting all week on that conference on energy. and we are doing our job here. and we will try to do it on the floor. but what is important. i think. is that we bring some degree of intelligence and. i might add. courage to addressing the issue of energy.  a tired mind and body and  one that is trying to meet some sort of a schedule. that is intended to get everybody out of town so that a few people can do the job each one of us ought to be doing.
yes. the answer is that what i am trying to draw attention to. i say to my colleague from louisiana. is that if i am going to go to the second best method. and i consider rationing by price the second best method of conservation. at least maybe we could ameliorate that so it does  impact on the people it has been impa cting on for 4 years. i recognize the fact that. to go into an energy stamp program nationwide. like that. it biting off a good deal. it could very well be abused. which neither the senator from louisiana  i would like to see. i hope i will have the chance to explain my energy stamp proposal. in any event. i can see going into a pilot program in several areas in the country so that climate is taken into account. so that urban and rural areas are taken into accountthis is  just a city measure. it also has to do with rural areas of the country. with both the south and the th. because. do  forget. if i talk heating in my area of the country. severe heat is just as vicious. if you will. or devastating to people in the south. i want to point something out: there have already been two pilot programs. very small oneone in ohio. one in pennsylvaniaon the concept of an energy stamp program. i might add. the recipients of the stamps would be those eligible for certain paymentswelfare payments and the food stamp program. also. would i be willing to do it on a pilot program basis. the answer is yes. because. at least. i think it makes a point that i have been trying to make and some of us have been trying to make for 4 years: we can continue to dump on the people who are the weakest elements of our society. they can bear the burden of solving the energy crisis. and they have been bearing that burden. at least it will bring some form of recognition by the congress of the united states that an inequity exists. and it does exist.
let me put it this way. the expertise. the entire background of the senator from new york in this area far exceeds that of this senator from connecticut. i sit on the energy committee. so i only analyze it in terms of ecoic impact. whereas the senator from new york has made this his lifes work. evaluating those elements of our society that need special help in the basic necessities of life. i have objection at all in construing this amendment that there be some oversight by his committee.
. i have very few comments i thank the distinguished senator from louisiana and all others who have helped put together this modified amendment. i think it is extremely important that what has been agreed upon. basically. is that we recognize the special hardship in any rationingbyprice scheme that is going to fall on the weakest elements of our society. how we are to go ahead and handle that hardship is something that deserves close scrutiny. and certainly it also deserves a positive plan. the suffering i am referring to has been going on for 4 years. i thinkand so do others of my colleaguesthat it is unfair to continue the special burden of high prices in the energy field. more particularly in the sense of utility bills. upon those individuals. therefore. what we are proposing is a pilot program of energy stamps. a pilot program that will cover at least five separate situationsincluding rural. urban. th. and south and help us gain experience with issuing energy stamps to those who are within the eligibility standards i mentioned before. within 125 percent of the poverty level. it is  the full program i initially advocated in my amendment. however. i am satisfied that before we engage in such a program. it is necessary to gain the experience that these pilot programs provide. i am very certain that what will be shown here is that this special care is very much warranted. we are  dealing. i might add to my colleagues. with something that is nice to have. we are dealing with a basic necessity of life. as i indicated previously. for 4 years the elderly. the poor. and the near poor have suffered terribly in the course of this energy crisis. they have suffered because. in effect.  all americans have taken the burden of the solution on their shoulders. this amendment at least takes us a step toward making sure that our conservation effort will be a fair one and will be placed on the shoulders of all americans.  just the weakest elements of our society
i think i can respond to the distinguished senator from louisiana. i could  agree more. this is  just meant to apply to the thern states. believe me. to die of heat is death just as much as dying from the cold. the definition is: as used in this section the term(1) "heating fuel" means electricity. oil. gas. coal. or any other fuel if used by a household as the primary source for heating or cooling a dwelling.
that is correct. i could  agree more. we do  want this to be only a thern program. it is a program. very frankly. for those whose energy costs are too high regardless of where the costs are incurred by virtue of heating or cooling. in matter what section of the country.
 carter. it has moved through committee and onto the floor and is about to be decided all in fewer than 30 days. it is. therefore. mystifying to me why a national energy policy is still wallowing in the congress. 5 months just as to the conference aspect of it. we would  be debating this arms package today were it  for our energy vulnerability. only one thing is different between these issues. one requires a price to be paid thousands of miles away by people who do  vote for american officeholders. and the other requires the price to be paid right here by people who determine whether you and i will remain in office or jimmy carter stays in the white house. it is a difference as blatant as it is igle and it does credit to us that is the situation. i say to you that if washington applied half so much time and pressure to the problem of producing a sound energy program as it has applied to the objective of arming israels adversaries we would  be here today meeting on this matter. the question of whether to pay blackmail would have never been raised. what we are asked to do here will bring hing more than a temporary respite for this nation. but it will create a permanent danger to israel.  will this saudi demand be the last. paying blackmail does  sate the appetite of the blackmailer. it sharpens his appetite. my friends. if we permit the saudi government to guide our hand in drawing the mark of shame upon this body. all the bloodshed it will risk and all the tears we may shed over its almost inevitable consequences will  serve to wash that mark away. we are told if we do  sell these planes to saudi arabia. they will get them elsewhere. this has been the rationale we have used over and over to arm so many nations in the world. this and profit have made us an arms merchant to the world. let us consider for a moment the pressure which these planes would create on israel. israel is a tiny country. she has great land areas to retreat into. when she fights. she must respond rapidly when threatened. think how sharply reduced the reaction time would be.
. i intend to vote against this entitlement compromise. because i honestly feel that it is  helping new england interests to keep on sticking a lollipop in their mouths. yes. provisions of this compromiseand the people should k thishave been specifically agreed to in order to satisfy oil and gas interests so they will  be hurt too much. other aspects of the agreement have been agreed to so the democratic party can stick to its promises and the republican party can stick to its promises. what we have in this country is still a lack of energy as well as an overconsumption of it. i will have more part of the charade. we have to get something before us that clearly delineates what needs to be done in the sense of encouraging american production in all its forms of energynuclear. oil. gas. coal. solareveryone has to make his contribution. and it has to be done within the concept of a free market. i am going to say the same thing i said when i was running for office. the heck with voluntarism. it will  work. there has to be some sort of mandatory conservation coupled with increased production. when we come to grips with those two tasks that are demanded of us. then you can talk about paying less. then you can go ahead and talk about stable supplies. then you can talk about an ecoy that has substance to it. then you can put an end to the deficit in balance of payments. then you can have a national security picture that is there in reality. rather than the dependence on foreign oil. until those matters are taken care of. the socalled energy policy that this country will have will be a political sham that is perpetrated on the nation.
the amendment that has been agreed to will guarantee a greater dependence by new englanders on opec oil. i ask the senator from massachusetts how that helps new englanders. when those men are sitting in a cartel environment and jacking up prices whenever they wish. that is  helping new england. all that does is postpone the inevitablc. how do we in new england explain that for years we have been so environmentally concerned that we would  build our own refineries in new england. and we encouraged that. the political leadership in new england encouraged that. if we had those refineries available in new england. we would  be in this bind today. but that was politically dangerous at the time. what i am saying to my fellow colleagues from new england is  that the fault is all ours. the energy bills here are helpful to interests in the southwest and the west. we have the burden of failing to act. and we kid our constituents that we are going to make them feel they are going to get out of this bind by relying on an entitlements program. we kidded them about a controls program. tell me how. in my own section of the country. controls brought about lower prices to new england. in any sensenatural gas. home heating oil. and so forth. tell me about the lower prices that were guaranteed by a system of controls. it has  worked. and it will  work. and entitlements will  work.
i accepted the statement of facts. however. the bottom line is that there is refining industry in new england today. just . just of late. have we decided that this is something we should get moving on. but the fact remains that today we have a program of controlswhy should i have to defend a free market. it seems to me that those who have advocated controls have to defend a system of controls. in light of what the price of energy is in this country today. i am talking about fossil fuels. those who have advocated controls have to defend that program in light of the unstable supplies available to this country. but that has  occurred. all of a sudden those who want a change in the game plan. one which would take us to a free market. are the ones expected to stand up. if any track record had been established in any other way as has been established by the system of controls and entitlements. it would have been wiped off the boards a long time ago. but there is just a basic political dishonesty going on around here that makes people believe that in whatever section of the country. we can have cheap energy in the environment we live in today. we are senators living in the year 1978. the world has changed entirely and we are unwilling to change with it. i want to k how many men are going to go out on the campaign trail this year and advocate rationing and mandatory conservation. so longer only elderly americans. black americans. poor americans have to go ahead and ration or be rationed by price. how many are going to go out there and advocate some mandatory change in lifestyle. certainly. up to this point we have had a program of volunteerism. and again. as in the system of controls. how do you go ahead and justify the success of a program that has raised by 1.000 percent the consumption of oil. how do you justify that with a program of volunteerism. you can. how do you justify the price of oil or an imbalance of payments in light of the control program.  i feel clearly the shoe should be on the other foot. but what i am warning all of you is this. and this is the point i am trying to make here today: every step along the line requires one more bend of the pretzel and what you saw here today was a compromise negotiated between the senator from louisiana and some of my new england colleagues. and the reason why they put aher bend in the pretzel was because it emanated from aher pretzelbending exercise. simply that of controls. and it goes on. and goes on.
the difficulty is that once we pass whatever it is we are going to pass in congress. americans are going to believe we have an energy program. i think they have a right to believe that considering 100 responsible senators. and the president are all affixing their name to it. but the truth of the matter is it will  be an energy program. it will be a political program. it will be a philosophical program. it will be a special interest program. it will be every program in the world except an energy program. and that is what is killing this nation. just as indeed the nation is  suffering from the same disease. excessive politics. that we have suffered from in new england on the subject of energy.
i shall be glad to answer the question of the senator from massachusetts. he has made my point. the compromise is between the senators from the eastern states and senators from the oilproducing states. what about the united states. that is the whole problem with this energy bill. when we come to the business of why did the secretary of energy propose these entitlements regulations. i have quite a good memory of exactly what happened because i was a part of the energy conference which was going on at the time the proncement was made by the secretary of energy. at that time there was some pretty heavy lobbying going on on the house members of the conference by the administration. so i take this anncement as just part of the then maneuvering. if you will. to go ahead and get an energy bill. and what i am saying here is--
there is finer representative of the state of masschusetts or indeed of the nation than he is. but i have lived with this wheeling and dealing that has been going on in this energy conference  for a year. and we have bill. all we have out there is a series of compromises among various philosophical. partisan. and special interests. and basically what i am saying out here today is. i will have more of it. i would rather start from scratch. if you will. than to end up in an aberration that is going to be rube goldberg in nature and that is going to end us up in exactly the same position we are in today. which is that our destiny energywise and indeed diplomatically is dictated to us by those who have their hands on the spigot. and those are  americans. so i am sorry that this is the bottom line. but certainly anyone of commonsense. when he asks himself the questions concerning price and supply. can only come to the same conclusion. when was the embargo. four years ago. what has happened to price and supply. price has soared and supply is erratic. what has happened to consumption. it soared. what has happened to the price that we pay. it soared. what has happened in the congress of the united states. hing. that has to deliver some kind of message. believe me. it just is  a peculiarity on my part. these are the facts and figures that confront this nation and stare it in its face. however. we continue to avoid them. do you  think it was amazing the other day. regardless of what your position was on the arab arms deal. that this town. in its editorials. all of them and. i might add. new york and all over. automatically made that quantum jump to the fact that we had to make that accommodation because of our weak position oflwise and energywise. that is a heck of a statement to make that all of a sudden our foreign policy is longer based on facts but. rather. is based on the particular position we are in in relation to aher foreign power. it goes on and on. ecoically. were you proud of your president at bonn. pushing peanuts down the streets of bonn. ecoic peanuts. the greatest nation in the world. why was he in that position. because he could  stand on his own two feet energywise. and that was  just his fault. it is the fault of every member of this congress. house and senate. republican and democrat. that that man could longer represent the greatest nation in the world. so. you k. we can go on in this artificial world of controls and entitlements and compromises. but. believe me. the minute we really strike pay dirt. we will have the respect. we will have the prices. and we will have the supplies this nation deserves
contra to what has been the traditional. popular view of my section of the country. i always have responded very favorably to the pleas of both distinguished senators from texas when it comes to the production side of our energy crisis. so far as the consumption side is concerned.  only do i disagree. but i would suggest that perhaps the time has come on this matter that you start voting contra to what had been the subsidy interests of your constituency. and. believe me. when we both do that. we will have a solution to the energy crisis.
i thank the distinguished senator. so. really. the roots of this problem were recognized clearly by all hands 4 years ago. frankly. there was  a majority leader running around the floor saying that we have to have a bill. there was a majority leader who said we have to conserve and we have to do it in a mandatory way. that is a big difference in the exercise of leadership right there. form rather than substance. politics rather than reality. that is why we are in the present impasse. the dollar is going to recover. but only when we come up with an energy policy that makes sense. i think anyone who has read even a summary of the provision or any of the debate on this issue will realize that this compromise does very little to address the real problems we face in this part of the energy spectrum. if anything. it probably will worsen our trade balance by forcing industries to convert to other fuels. probably oil. why. because it will push gas prices up until oil becomes an attractive substitute for gas. so let us  kid ourselves thinking that the international financial community.  to mention the american public. is going to be fooled by believing we are going to have a sensible "energy policy" by passing this bill. the dollar. as i said. will recover when we do come up with an energy policy that makes sense. that has substance to it. and that substance is to provide for more domestic production and for tough steps to reduce consumption and encourage conservation. i stand on the floor of this u.s. senate in the year 1978 saying exactly what i said in my reelection campaign of 1976. it is a rather oddball platform to run for election on. but i said it in the state of connecticut: rationing on the consumption side. deregulation. decontrol of free market on the supply side. and for whatever inconvenience that might be caused for a few months or a few years we will come out of the woods together  having penalized just a segment of our population but each one of us having borne the burden required to make the solution meaningful. we will  talk our way out of this crisis. we will  armtwist our way out of the crisis. more gas. more oil. and less use of the sameit is as simple as that. and we do  need 190 pages to satisfy the egos in this chamber and down on pennsylvania avenue to tell us that. if any member of the american public is fooled into thinking that this is going to resolve our problem and give us lower prices and stable supplies. then i say this aftern: should the bill pass. watch what happens for the next year or so. because that is the other part of the political strategy. all will be forgotten a year from . 2 years from . by the american public. so. while this bill is worse than the status quo. we all recognize the current situation in the consuming states is difficult. and we must do what we can to improve it. that is why my colleagues and i support certain portions of the conference report which are generally agreed upon and which will provide some production in supply for the interstate market. the free market has worked so well in the intrastate market that an excess of gas is available. at least at certain times of the year. the provisions already agreed upon will allow that gas to flow to the interstate market at reasonable prices without bringing the sellers under ferc control. together with provisions similar to the emergency national gas act of 1977. which worked quite well. but which  expired. our motion to recommit will actually improve the current situation. as opposed to the conference report. which will lock up into an interminable web of regulation and control. throughout the natural gas debate i have always supported a bill that would provide for deregulation at some reasonable time and certain point in the future. i think it should be tomorrow. i recognize the necessity of compromise in this business called government. but as to the 7 years. 9 years possibly. as is contained in this bill. do senators k what that is for. that is to let the politicians down easily who have for the last 4 or 5 years been saying that controls would give us those lower prices and those stable supplies. which predictions have proved to be incorrect. it is  7 or 9 years to achieve an orderly transition in an energy sense. but 7 to 9 years to allow my colleagues in the house of representatives and the senate to prepare escape routes to make provision for other employment. indeed. if we agree on the bill as it  stands. we will still need a national energy policy. and every day we continue to embrace the pretense that we have one will take us 1 day further from achieving our goal of energy independence. the real difficulty is that should the legislation be passed by the house of representatives and the senate and signed by the president the assumption will be made by the man on the street that the united states has an energy policy. and that probably is the greatest danger contained in this legislation. for regardless of what your point of view is on regulation or deregulation or on consumption. believe me what is contained in here after the title is hing. and there will be pressure to do anything further. if. indeed. all the pressure that has been generated in 4 to 5 years has wrought hing except this monstrosity. what will happen when the country thinks we have an energy bill or at least is able to point to something that was signed into law. there will be demand for conservation. there will be incentive for additional production. there will be the standard comeback: "we have an energy policy. why dont you find out. let us just see how it works for the next 7 to 9 years." this country can afford 7 to 9 years of the profligacy in energy in which we are  engaged. i am fully aware of the fact that my views bring me much into conflict with most of my colleagues. i really do  k anyone who is both for mandatory conservation and for deregulation. but that is the honest answer. and all i can say is that. however. it will hurt. it will only hurt for a little while. as it is . too many people have been hurt for too long. for 4 years shortages of supply in the gas field have put people out of work. people have actually frozen to death. these are  just dramatic footes that are figments of my imagination. it has happened. the tragedies are already there. everyone said when the gas lines went away in 1974: fantastic. i dont have to wait in line any more at the gas pump. there is  even that inconvenience. more waiting at the gas pump. so the crisis is gone. just ask the elderly who have gotten their utility bills over the past 4 years whether or  the crisis is gone. i have had them in my office. .  wishing to step on partisan toes. i have some partisan comments to make. maybe i ought to stop at this juncture and let my good friend from montana have his say on this matter. a man whom i greatly respect and. i might add. a successor to the distinguished former majority leader of whom i have spoken so affectionately and so admiringly
. what the senator is saying to me is that if we can only get that natural gas into the united states. then we have the possibility for lower prices. believe me. we do  have the possibility for lower prices in the united states under this legislation.  at least for the next 7 to 9 years.
if i might complete my comments with regard to the comments of the senator from montana to respond to the distinguished senator from idaho. whose point is to the complexity of the provisions of this bill. may i repeat a letter that was written by the chairman of the federal energy regulatory commission. the letter of september 8. i will read the whole paragraph so as  to try to give any tilt to my response to the statement of the senator from idaho. as you will e. the conference report is set out in elaborate detail. if one accepts the policy conclusions of the conferees as given. the question still remains whether the act can be effectively administered and enforced. it is my basic conclusion that it can be. i could  have made the same judgment with respect to the july 31 draft. this is obviously chairman curtis trying to respond to the statement of unenforceability. but that is  the point that i raised with the senator from idaho. that point is  discussed by chairman curtis when he says: i must responsibly point out. however. the task of administration and enforcement of the statutory scheme will be most difficult. the legislation will necessitate an augmentation of commission personnel and financial resources. augmentation of personnel resources. why do you augment your personnel and your resources if the regulations are simple. it is an ambiguity. a contradiction. he goes on: a sustained and dedicated effort by members of the commission and its staff and a high degree of cooperation of the various state and federal agencies who are assigned responsibilities under it. i might add indeed there will be increasing regulatory problems at the federal level. and much of this will also be thrust on the shoulders of the various state regulatory agencies. i do  see how it can possibly be argued here on the floor of the senate that the legislation before us is going to simplify that which we already have. the only simplification which could occur which would be meaningful would be to go to a free market. to deregulate. total deregulation and decontrol. there you indeed would go ahead and simplify the process. i realize that that is an impossibility. that there has to be some sort of a transition stage. indeed. pearsonbentsen went ahead and complicated that in the course of the 2- and 5year deregulation and decontrol. but 7 to 9 years. maintaining all the existing categories as they apply to old gas. changing really only the basic ground rules for new gas. and someone is going to stand on the floor here and say this actually simplifies. i do  care how you want to categorize. that is an argument in semantics. believe me. when people say the bill is complex. it is complex and its enforcement is going to be complex. that is by the judgment of two people who sit on the agency responsible for that enforcement. .  fails.
madam president. we are being asked to delete $209 million to enable the navy to dispose of the litton and general dynamics settlements. these settlements. negotiated by the navy. are the only realistic options the government has to deal with the difficult problems presented by shipbuilding cost overruns. there is need to expound on the superior quality of the product and our nations need for it. the 688 class submarine is second to e and is a vital link in our national defense. other company could build an equivalent product today for less money. there are approximately 11.000 skilled craftsmen at electric boat who are responsible for building the 688 class boats. any further disruption in the settlement process would mean layoffs for between 8.000 and 9.000 of these dedicated workers and would result in a severe negative impact on the ecoy of connecticut. this is time to point fingers. the past lack of leadership and inflexibility at the union level. the corporate level and the government level has been well documented. but past animosities and failures at mangement levels should  be the cause for unduly penalizing the men and women whose livelihood. and those of their families. depend on continued work at this facility. an agreement is more than we have had for the past 2 years. yes. we could reject this agreement. and let the company and the navy spend the next 8 to 10 years in court. the taxpayers would lose. the employees would lose.. the national defense would lose. the only ones who would  lose would be the lawyers. or we could shut down the 688 program entirely. this would put thousands of people out of work severely impacting the ecoy of an entire state. in addition. the trident program would become more expensive due to the ecoies of employees working on both systems. furthermore. our national defense strategy would lose a vital link. finally. the government could take over 688 production at the shipyard. i think we are all only too aware of how inefficient an operation this would be. hence. while the settlement before us may  be ideal. it is the only practical option to follow. these ships can be built in a shipyard where there is acrimony and strife. the only way to gain a spirit of mutual trust and confidence is to accept this settlement and let everyone get back to work. i urge my colleagues to vote against the proxmire amendment. i want to pay a special tribute to my colleague. senator ribicof. as being instrumental in achieving this agreement. i think that a good settlement. as i learned it anyway as a young lawyer. is one that leaves everyone a little bit unhappy. apparently it has done just that. but it has left the senator from wisconsin feeling very unhappy. on the other hand. we can sit here and argue and litigate and get into court or we can go ahead and build submarines and attend to the security of this nation. i think it is wellestablished by the comments that have been made here this morning that everybody had a hand in the fault. the navy. electric boat. the congress. the unions. the management. there is plently of fault to go around. on the other hand. from the point of view of saving the taxpayers money and from the sense of doing the job from the national security point of view. i suggest that we reject the amendment and get on with the agreement. which has left everybody a little bit unhappy. we can spend the next 5 years in court or we can get the business done here on the senate floor. get the business done in the shipyards at electric boat and. in thus doing so. fulfill ouf responsibilities and electric boats responsibility to the people of this country.
then i went on. after reviewing the various provisions of the bill. and i said: the federal government has been slow to respond to the needs of the elderly and the poor in coping with inflationary fuel costs. i am introducing my amendment to demonstrate to the american poor and elderly that the congress does. indeed. have a great deal of concern for their welfare. with the implementation of an energy stamp program. which is designed to complement weatherization plans. these citizens will  be forced to freeze in their homes. as was the case with many during the winter of . i think it is safe to point out that. regardless of action taken here or in conference. the rise which has already been experienced in the area of energy has very clearly impacted upon the weakest elements of our society. be those elements poor in the ecoic sense or on fixed incomes. be they elderlyin other words. those whose income in way has been able to match the tremendous increase in the cost of energy as it manifests itself in their utility bills. as it manifests itself in gasoline costs. et cetera. i suppose the most amazing statement that i hear made whenever i advocate mandatory fuel conservation and rationing is that we do  want rationingwe do  want any world war iitype rationing. i have to point out to my colleagues. and. indeed. to all those in this nation who make that statement. that we have had rationing for 4 years . since the arab oil embargo. the only point that remains to be argued is who is it that has been rationed. for 4 years. the poor people. the elderly. the fixed income people. the lower than moderate income people in this country have been rationed. they have been rationed by price. we already k. in the face of what occurred last winter. that so many people in this category had to turn down their thermostats to the point where many of them actually froze to death. that is  a horror story to incite action on the floor. it actually happened. it is going to happen again. it is  the strong elements of american society that i am concerned with. indeed. they have  contributed anything in the sense of conservation. as witness the increased oil imports. as witness the balanceofpayments deficit. indeed. every indication is that matter what we raise the price of gasoline or heating oil to. a good portion of america can pay it. and conservation will be achieved. but that is aher argument for other of my colleagues as they present their amendments here today.
. i join my colleagues in paying grateful tribute to our late friend and colleague. dewey bartlett of oklahoma. he was a great human being and an exemplary public servant. among senator bartletts many admirable qualities. his perseverance in defense of his convictions stands out. his tireless advocacy of decontrol of energy supplies made an outstanding contribution to the senates consideration of the administrations energy proposals last year. he continued to press and attempt to clarify the administrations position long after the tv lights had been turned out and the nations attention had turned elsewhere. in addition. his conscientious service on the senate armed services committee bolstered our efforts to provide for the national defense. in all has dealings. senator bartlett was a man of warmth and humor. this made him the friend of many in the senate. staff and senators alike. the courage of his final days in washington. as he battled the cancer which would take his life. will stand as a vivid reminder and testament to the values on which senator bartlett built his life.*
. more than the oil saved is the fact that this would be an act of selfdiscipline. something which this nation has  engaged upon in recent memory. i can assure you that if action were taken in the fashion that i have described. the dollar would shoot up in foreign money markets the next day. the opec nations. for the first time. would realize that they are dealing with a nation that has the strength of character to get off its knees and deal with them eyeball to eyeball in the fashion of saying. "we do  need your product." only when that happens will the price come down. what i refer to here in the way of conservationis going to change lifestyles. it is going to require sacrifice by all of us rather than just a few. but it is a key part of any energy policy. . there are those who are going to say. well. politically. it is the worst thing you can do to advocate rationing. politically. the worst thing we can do is permit energy policy to be the policy of this nation. politically. the worst thing we can do is allow inflation to continue. an inflation which is mainly fueled by the uncontrolled price on energy. over which we have control. sooner or later. that is going to come home to the american people. then the ones who will be thanked will be those who did ask for sacrifice in constructing a meaningful energy policy. i am sure that others have stood here and related to the other elements of senate resolution 78. i shall  do that in regards to additional production. decontrol of other prices so we can apply it to exploring for more oil and gas. and so we can apply it to development of other sources of energy. all i can talk about is what i k will get us out of our present predicament. we need to use less and we need to discover more. it is as simple as that. over the last 5 years. republicans and conservatives have opposed mandatory conservation. democrats and liberals have opposed decontrol and deregulation. the net result is that we have a philosophical energy policy.  one geared to the realities of today. that is what senate resolution 78 draws attention to. it deserves the support of this body. more particularly. what deserves support is what should follow in the sense of the very tough legislation that eventually is going to have to be enacted by this body.
. unlike the day that we passed the famous energy bill when the dollar edived on foreign markets. when we pass this legislation and this legislation becomes law. i will predict to you the dollar will rise and for the first time in 5 years the opec nations will k that they are sitting across the table from somebody who is  kidding. i compliment those of my colleagues. even though with tongue in cheek some of them somewhat belatedly consented for this legislation before us. the fact is that we are getting it out . but i think it imperative to point out that this is  egh. we are nibbling around the edge. we are afraid to directly confront the vast majority of the american people and tell them. "you have to participate in the sense of a change of lifestyle if indeed we are to get out of the bind imposed upon us by that embargo of 5 years ago." that is the toughest message. and it is the message that should have been given years ago. if we had done it years ago. the events in iran would have been a happening. at least as far as energy is concerned. but at the present time even the slightest slowdown or cutoff of onetenth of 1 percent of our foreign supplies will throw this nation into a total recession and panic. everybody downplays the issue of saudi arabia. make mistake about it. they have drastically altered their policies both as to their output and their export. there is the distinct possibility that source of supply would  be available to the united states of america. is there any responsible public official who has said what would happen if that source of supply were cut off. you would have rationing affecting every american the next daythe next day. insofar as the dimensions of the crisis. make mistake about it. this is fully the equivalent of any wartime threat. the fact that we do  have a shell blow up under our es does  mean that the ground is  giving way under our feet. for 5 years. we have addressed this problem philosophically in a partisan way. republicansand i do  like to generalize. but i will in this instancephilosophically have been opposed to mandatory conservation. democrats have philosophically been opposed to decontrol. the net result is that we have had a philosophical thrust and only a philosophical thrust at a time of very real crisis and confrontation with possibility of either controlling the demand or controlling the supply. here we have it. i understand there is going to be some difficulty here with the advertising and lighting restrictions and the argument is going to be made that it is only 4.400 barrels of oil. but its symbolic significance is terribly important.
i thank the distinguished senator from louisiana. s energy program. make sure you nibble to death the windfall profits tax. this is what is involved here. i think the american people are quite prepared to make sacrifices as long as we make sacrifices in this chamber in a political sense. as long as the energy companies make their sacrifices in the terms of what they contribute to the development of alternate sources of energy. but this. indeed. is going to be a matter that should affect each one of us across the board. to me. it is  so meaningful as to whether or  each one of my colleagues has a parking space on the capitol grounds. but whether or  he is willing to stand up in this chamber and do the politically unpopular. and in so doing construct an effective policy that holds the promise of stable supply and lower price. i realize that is a tough thing to ask of anyone who is up for election in the next round in 1980. but i did it in 1976. and i am here. and here by a bigger plurality than ever before in my career. i am  afraid to say what needs to be said. regardless of any other offices i may run for in the future. but there will be effect at all if we listen to the various interests that have ruled our energy policies for too long. as i have indicated. first of all these are the philosophical interests. the republican and democratic interests. and the producing interests and the consuming interests and the southwests interests and the theasts interests. and in the course of all those interests. the american interest has been forgotten. so i ask my colleagues do  flinch. do  flinch. pass it. pass the second step. insofar as the good intentions of the various states. and with due respect to my good friends from new mexico and louisiana. this is the reason why i had clear reservations about their new proposal coming out on gasoline station closings and other mandatory steps. the states have  done their job and indeed have attempted. the first opportunity. to buck the traces on the federal 55mileperhour limit. they were doing so just prior to the iranian crisis. i hope that by passing this measure we will double the emphasis to the american people as to the seriousness of the crisis. that it is  manufactured. that this is only the second step of more steps to come. which by the time they are all through. will affect every aspect of our society. it is very unfair to stand up here and say. well. this is zeroing in just on these people. before we are through. if we have done the right job. everyone is going to get hit. when everyone is personally involved. and  until then. then you will have your solution to the energy crisis.
. i move to discharge the energy and natural resources committee from further considmay 8. 1979 coin eration of senate resolution 121. the administrations standby energy conservation plan  1. entitled "weekend gasoline sales restrictions." this plan has never been put to a vote and will expire at midnight on may 10. i make a motion at this time to discharge the energy committee from its responsibility on the weekend restrictiors of gasoline sales.
i suggest to the senator from missouri that a great deal has changed in the last 2 years. both in the equipment used by amtrak. which is more fuel efficient. and in the statistics we  have as to the ridership on all the lines of amtrak. to come in here and ask us to make a decision. on may 24. 1979. based on 1977 data seems to me to be somewhat far off the mark.
i say to the distinguished chairman that. using his date of 1978. i think we both would agree that the world has changed greatly with respect to energy in just that 1 year. since 1977. which is the base year of the data. gasoline prices have doubled. if the u.s. senate acts on information that is 2 years old and 1 year old. you could carry that to the ridiculous. i do  plan to do it. it is terribly important that we act on the basis of todays facts1979. todays newspaper. the washington post. says: last week a record number of callers tried to reach amtrak. of 2 million calls. 1.5 million could  be answered because of busy signals. advance reservations are  50 percent higher than this time last year. that is just since 1978.
there is the point that at the outset of amtrak they said it was  going to work. so "we are  going to give you egh money." if they do  give you egh money to build efficient equipment. and it does  work. and people do  use it. they say. "i told you so. we are  going to give you any more money." it is a catch22 situation. if this had been adequately funded from the beginning both as to equipment and route structure. yes. it would be competitive and people would ride.  the excuse is being given that because congress was niggardly on this point people are  riding. therefore. we should  give it any money. if i might respond to my distinguished colleague. my good friend from missouri. this senator never stood up and said this is the resolution of our energy problem. the difficulty. senator. is we are offered a conservation package and we reject it. we are offered decontrol. and  we are going to reject it. it seems. we are offered an alternate mode of transportation. and we are going to reject it. . senator. tell me what is going to resolve the energy crisis. i submit it is going to be a little bit of all things that are going to come to pass. decontrol. alternate sources of energy. conservation. new ways to move about. all of these things put together will give us an energy package. i do  pretend that amtrak is the resolution of the energy crisis. everything that has come to the u.s. senate and to the house has been rejected. and the united states has. of course. energy policy.
. i think again it shows very clearly the unwillingness and the lack of fortitude to have an upanddown vote on what is the most crucial issue of the day confronting this nation. the distinguished senator from louisiana said about my plan that it is unworkable. or it may be unworkable. what is so workable about the energy plan that exists in this nation today. do you think it is workable. it is grossly unfair to various categories of our citizenry. do you think it is workable. what has happened to the price of energy. it soared. do you think it is workable. and does anybody k from day to day what we have in the way of supply. and yet i come up with a simple scheme to assure that every american in his pleasure driving is going to make one small sacrifice. and that might prove to be unworkable. do you want to hear it all over again. listen to this. september 13. 1977. the distinguished senator from louisiana is  responding to the weicker amendment. identical to the one that we have here. but  it is 2 years ago.
just by way of passing the distinguished miity leader will remember i tried to have this body postpone the administrations plan for amtrak specifically because energy circumstances had changed the transportation picture in this country. and we were denied a vote and denied the opportunity to go ahead and do that.  the administration wants to come through with a plan. agreeing that 1977 data bases are  quite the best foundation to have for decisions to be made in 1979. so i think it only fair to point out it is  because this body was  ready to act at all but rather because the administration wanted to stick to its guns when. indeed. the guns were clearly outdated.
. the amendment you have before you would put a moratorium on the ocean dumping of all nuclear wastes. the amendment i am  offering will serve to protect the oceans from pollution by radioactive wastes. i am deeply concerned that in the search for new disposal sites for the nations nuclear waste we may be tempted to turn to the oceans before we are aware of the dangers of such an action.  is the time to assess the dangers of such action before there is a critical need. currently. title i of the marine protection. research and sanctuaries act prohibits ocean dumping of "highlevel radioactive waste." however. the definition of "highlevel" given in the law does  include many potentially dangerous wastes. the classification of radioactive waste is extremely complicated. in addition to the radiation level there are many other factors that must be considered. such as the concentration of particularly hazardous or longlived isotopes and the chemical state of the waste. for instance. is the waste a stable solid or a corrosive liquid. currently. classification as "highlevel" and "lowlevel" is recognized as oversimplistic. the nrc is making an effort to better classify radioactive wastes but still many "grey areas" exist. an excellent example of one of these poorly defined categories is the radioactive water  flooding the three mile island nuclear reactor containment building. the oceans are one of the greatest resources of this nation. and indeed. this planet. i believe it is an essential precaution to call a moratorium on the dumping of any radioactive wastes in the ocean until they are better classified and studies show that they pose threat to the seas. because the united states has  dumped any radioactive wastes in the oceans since 1962. this moratorium should have immediate impact. however. as pressure increases to find new waste dump sites in the future this amendment will have provided us with forekledge of any dangers and will help us to avoid regrettable decisions made in haste. cxxv1176part 15 i urge adoption of the amendment.
. the amendment which i have proposed to the amendment of the distinguished senator from west virginia in effect kks out the senate recess. or. to put it in other words. it permits a recess commencing on friday. august 31. through labor day. and more. i do  intend. very frankly. to stand here and demagog against my colleagues. because i think we are all engaged in serious work in committee. on the floor. and elsewhere. and have been for a considerable period of time. but due to certain events transpiring around us. that work has been somewhat impeded and we are off schedule. it really is  realistic to say that matters have  changed within the last week or so. they have. and drastically so. i suggest. too. that when i take a look at the calendar of unfinished business just on energy aloneand i will read it to yousenators might wish to reconsider as to whether or  this is an appropriate time to go on vacation. the interior department appropriations bill. which includes all nuclear energy programs. including synthetic fuels. conservation. and other programs. has been reported by the house committee and passed the full house. there has been senate action. the department of transportation appropriation. including mass transit and amtrak. will pass the house this week. there has been senate action. the energy mobilization board legislation is in markup in the senate energy committee. i hope we might be able to get it out of that committee this week. but certainly there will be senate action if we recess this week. the energy security corporation measure. action by the energy committee  by the full senate. department of energy authorization. reported out by the senate energy committee but action on the floor. the windfall profits tax bill is in markup in the senate finance committee. it has already passed the house. and the standby gasoline rationing is on the house floor. having been passed by the senate. there it is. simply stated. again. i have to repeat. being part of some of these committees i k that those that i sit on and others have been diligently working at the new tasks placed in front of us by the administration. and have been diligently working on legislative responses to the new circumstances presented to us around the world. i wish i could sat that we could walk away from all of this. and it could await our pleasure in the sense of performing our duties. it can. the energy crisis is as severe today or even more so than it was yesterday. last week. or the week before that. it is simply on that basis that i present my amendment to the senate. i think it terribly important.  just for the matter of appearance. i might add. but because i think that during this intervening time we can accomplish a great deal. i might also add. especially with the prospect of salt ii and other matters before us which would pretty much occupy the fall. energy production. conservation. energy legislation in all its forms. needs to be acted upon today. therefore. i submit my amendment and i hope my colleagues will support it.
. the goal of this legislation is to provide flexibility for state and local officials. they best k their own transuortation needs. federal assistance should be equally available for whatever transportation system they think best for their region. once this flexibility and improved planning is achieved. the nation will enjoy better transportation. cleaner air to breathe and less energy wasted.@ by mr. packwood (for himself.
 flattened when he just asked for standby authority for rationing. are we going to do anything. or is this just supposed to be political hot air. as opposed to generating energy policy for this country. the additional production that the nation is looking for will  come about until the year 2000 from the esoteric solargeothermal mix.  until the year 2000. the supposed additional fossil fuel supply generated by decontrol and deregulation. even that is 5 to 10 years off. the only immediate solution to the need for extra energy is conservation. if you want to bankrupt this nation. if you want to put us into a depression. if you really want to blow our national security to hell. all we have to do is continue the way we are going right . paying anything that is charged and having selfdiscipline whatsoever as a nation. if we continue that course. then we are through. it is time that selfinterest got put aside in this chamber. and that we have the guts to put our necks on the line. believe me. i think the american people would appreciate that. rather than  king what we have as a policy. but feeling the penalty attached to policy at all. so i hope that this bill will pass. as i have said before. god help the united states of america if as mild a measure as this can find its way past the floor of the u.s. senate. which is supposedly leading this country out of this crisis.
. i direct my attention toward that portion of the muskieribicoff amendment which would delete subsection 21(a) of the bill. this subsection would authorize the energy mobilization board to make a decision or take an action in lieu of any agency. whether it be federal. state. or local. if the agency fails to meet a project decision schedule deadline established by the board.
 annced $1.6 billion. and. within 2 weeks of that. surveys were taken among the various thern tier states and that was found inadequate. . listen. whoa. what kind of fiscal precision is that. and it is different with this bill here. so we can say we have something in the offing in the way of synthetic fuels. which means the american public will  have to conserve. will  have to pay the dollar prices of the additional production to resolve the problems. they will  have to be involved. oh yes. they will. so let us make clear when we talk about the energy policy. some of us have been calling the political tough words for a long time. and we are  saying " to synthetic fuels. we are  saying " to alternate sources of energy other than the fossil fuels. what we are saying is that we will  go ahead and ask the taxpayers to pay a price the politicians are  willing to pay. twenty billion dollars. i want a detailed explanation from the senator from west virginia. from the senator from kentucky. as to what they are going to spend it on. what are they going to spend it on. how will it be spent. is it egh.
one simple act of conservation. opposed here twice before by the senator from louisiana. when i had a simple bill of a 6day week for a pleasure automobile. and twice the senator from louisiana. in 1977 and 1979. got up and said. " we can have that kind of conservation. it puts too much of a burden on the public." the senator from ohio and i argued here for a bill which set minimum standards for small electric motors. it squeaked through by a vote of 43 to 39by 4 votesand it was  anything of a mandatory nature. it was just guidelines. to try to get more efficiency into small electric motors by 1982 or 1983. twenty billion dollarstotally violating the proper procedures of the appropriations committee and of the senate. $20 billion. and ody has any concept of what the program is going to cost. because the program has yet to be evolved. symbolism. maybe we fool ourselves. but the world understands that everything the united states has been doing is symbolism. that is why there is more value in a piece of metal than there is in the greatest nation in the world and its money. we fool ourselves and ody else. and this is one further step in that charade.
. on tuesday. the department of the interior is scheduled to lease 128 tracts. comprising 728.728 acres of the prime fishing ground on georges bank. here we have one of the greatest of all manmade disasters still continuing. with absolutely concept as to what the consequences are. the way the law is written. we are supposed to have a national response team give us an evaluation but. the way the law is written. the national response team does  come into being or commence its report until the oil spill is over. this oil spill could go on for aher 2 years and we neither have the information as to exactly what has happened in the sense of ecological and environmental damage.  do we have an answer as to how spills can be prevented in the future. i suggest that. for the leasing of these lands to go forthand i have been an advocate of their leasing in the pastfor that to go forward in the light of what is going on in the gulf of mexico makes absolutely sense. it is the reason i requested that a sense of the senate resolution be brought before this body in order to assist in blocking tuesdays activities. i am  an environmental nut. i repeat. i have advocated offshore drilling and off the theastern part of the united states. we need that kind of energy. but i can tell. and i think my staff and i have specialized in this areai can in any way explain to the distinguished senator from louisiana. who is on the floor. what it is or what has been affected in the sense of the fishing grounds of the southwestern or southern coast of the united states due to the spill. i do  care about the beaches in texas. that does  bother me at all. that is a pain in the backside and we shall all live with it one way or aher. what bothers me and what i think bothers the scientists in that area and the a people in that area is what is going to happen to shrimp beds. that. they have answer to. what has happened as far as the food chain is concerned in that area of the ocean is. i repeat. what has  been written about: the oil spill continues. we are  talking about hundreds of miles of oceani can say laid waste. because i do  k and my government does  k. but we are going to go pellmell into the leasing and drilling of our richest fishing grounds without getting the answer. the sense of the senate resolution which i drafted merely asked that we get an explanation of campeche. its con.equences. before the sale continues. it does  bear on the sale. i have  made it a broad resolution saying to find out what the general result of oil spills is. et -etera. et cetera. it is a very specific. narow sense of the senate resolution. it deserves to be passed. the sale deserves to be postponed or. indeed. . are we so hungry for energy that we are willing to give up one of our prime sources of food. once destroyed. the delicate balance hat exists in the oceans and especially on those fishing grounds. and it is the reason why they are the richest in the worldonce destroyed. it will never come back in our lifetime.
i thank the distinguished miity leader and i join with him in the remarks that he made. . that we will  leave it to the man in the white house to draw the political flak so far as the conservation program and mandatory rationing scheme are concerned. but that we take that on our shoulders and we put it into place so that when the difficulties manifest themselvesand they will. with the shortfall that is going to be created herethe nation will be prepared and the sacrifice will be borne  by the poor.  by the elderly.  by those on fixed incomes. but placed fairly on the shoulders of all americans. in that way we end our captivity both to iran and to the nations that comprise the opec cartel. in other way.  by rhetoric.  by energy mobilization boards.  by synfuels corporations. but by each american participating through his lifestyle in the words that went forth yesterday. " " that is what is required of each one of us. that is what will free a nation and. more particularly. its representatives in tehran
. it is in this spirit that i propose this resolution before you as a clear message to the secretary of the interior that the senate wants lessons learned at the campeche bay oil spill incorporated into ocs lease  42 activities and all subsequent ocs leases. i believe this to be possible if: by march 31. 1980. the secretary of the interior delivers the above report as well as that report requested by the senate during debate of h.r. 4440 to all lessees of sale  42 as well as other federal. state. and local governments or agencies and industries involved in procedures leading up to the sale. and the secretary of the interior. in keeping with requirements of the outer continental shelf lands act amendments of 1978 (public law 95372) insure that the department and lessees incorporate results of these reports and the revised national oil and hazardous substances pollution contingency plan into their operations. there is doubt in my mind that offshore oil production should take place. i am keenly aware of the great need my native state of connecticut and new england in general has for new energy development. with the proper safeguards on georges bank. exploration and production should go ahead. this nation faces difficult times. it must face many conflicts between energy development. food. air. and water. this resolution before you does  call for stoppage of the lease sale on georges bank  elsewhere. rather. it is an attempt to insure that past experience and new kledge is applied to future ocs petroleum production for the. benefit of all.*
on a technical point: this was strictly on gasoline consumption. and i am talking about total petroleum usage. the answer is that the action of the department of energy is  in pursuance of the legislation which was passed. this was a unilateral effort requesting voluntary compliance. it was  in conformity with the measure we passed. which provides that a finding has to be made and then appropriate action taken.
that is my resolution to try to clean up the ethics code of this body. there we have two entirely different subjects. there is at least the relationship in my amendment to a matter of foreign policy. to a matter of foreign policy in an area of the world in proximity to the nations discussed in the pending measure.  that would  be a satisfactory resolution of the problem. in addition. the thing that bothers me somewhat is that every day this matter goes on somewhere between 5.000 and 50.000 barrels of oili can give an accurate figurepour into the gulf of mexico. with absolutely complaint on the part of our government. for those two reasons. i prefer to see this thing through in this legislation. the senator is well aware that i am  going to be a part of that conference. i am sure that probably the feelings he expresses here can be shared by others. and if a few people in the conference want to work the senators will should it be adopted on the floor. fine. what bothers me is that i see in our response to mexico our whole attitude toward the energy problem. which is that we will take any indignity whatsoever. so long as we can get oil or the prospect of oil. a long time ago. this would have been called to a halt or called to account by this nation. i am told by my colleagues and the state department that this is a very sensitive situation with mexico. we might need their oil. never mind that it is going to destroy the gulf and the coastline of this country. because we do  stand up.  just as a matter of principle but also to a very real danger to something else that is important in this countrythe ecosystems. the wildlife. and the food. that is one of the great fishing grounds of the united states of america. yes. i am forcing the issue. maybe i - will be voted down on the floor. but it should be just as appalling to all other senators as it is to me that in trying to pursue this in a logical and a fair waythat is. asking the mexican government for the information. which information was  supplied. or was then supplied indirectlyand go the next step. which is through our state department. to have observers to ascertain the damage being done. we have never received the courtesy of a reply. that request was made 3 or 4 weeks ago. our government ithe state department. has  had the courtesy of a reply. i have tried to use all avenues of approach and  jump the gun. so to speak. by finally coming to the floor. finally. i think a statement is necessary by us as a body that we want an answer. if anyone thinks that is a shameful thing to do under the circumstances. with our panting around the world for oil. i can go along with that. if anyone can refute anything i say. in the sense of the oilspill continuing. in the sense of the barrels of oil pouring into the gulf of mexico. let him do so. in a month. it is going to hit the shoreline of the state represented by senator tower. because of the weather and the shifting of the current. if anyone can dispute these things. i would be glad to hear them. to me. this is a matter of emous urgency to all of us. apparently. the administration is afraid to pursue it. therefore. i ask the legislative branch for a response to what the mexican government is doing.
the difference. of course. is that this is in the nature of a condemnation by the senate of actions by the government of mexico. so it can be put into the verbal category. but what they are doing to this country is a specific act of wrong and what goes even farther is that it has  been proven at the hearings that were held here a short while ago.  1. the mexican government lied to the united states on the amount of oil that is coming forth from the well. and  2.  it refuses to allow any onsite inspection of the problem. so i think i can appreciate the eloquence of the distinguished senator from texas in his desire for good relations. and i might add i voted for that natural gas bill. i have long been a proponent of good relations with mexico. indeed. my family has lived down there since the 1920s. and it is  in any sense directed toward exacerbating ill will between our two nations. i agree that the present administration has done hing to bring us closer together. the oilspill is a specific act.  a matter of general policy. a specific act of wrong which is  being righted and which is  being addressed by our government. i sat up here on behalf of the interest of the senator from texas trying to preach decontrol and deregulation in new england to get additional production. i am going to go ahead and take the bit in my teeth on behalf of what is correct in terms of principle. the senator from texas sits herei might add half of his state government came to these hearings deeply concerned as to what is being done to his stateand  he says just worry about the relations with mexico and let the oil wash ashore on the texas beaches. if it were just the texas beaches. i would be more than glad to go ahead and lay the amendment aside. if that is the interest of those most directly affected as represented by the senator from texas. fine. i am  going to interfere. the difficulty is  the entire gulf of mexico and fishing grounds that are valuable to the united states of america. as much as we may need oil. we also need food and so does the world. when he talks about the acts of friendship of the government of mexico. may i point out to him that mexicos price per barrel of oil is $32 per barrel and opecs price is $26. so the mexicans are giving it to us even more so than opec. this is our friend to the south. may i point out to him. contrary to the comments of the distinguished senator from texas. and this has changed this year. we  have a $1 billion trade deficit with mexico. they export $7 billion to the united states. we $6 billion to mexico. there is hing to be gained there.  i think i understand what is going on here. the senator is correct. feelings were hurt on the other side when the president vetoed the natural gas bill. but that in wise can be connected with condoning by inaction a wrong presently being perpetrated by the government of mexico on both the united states and the world community.
i have clearly tried to review the steps which have been taken. i first stood on the floor of the senate and alerted my colleagues to the problem back in ember of last year. i then asked for hearings to be held by the energy committee. joint hearings were held by commerce and energy at which the facts were developed that the problem indeed was serious. that it was  at all as had been portrayed in the press as having been resolved or portrayed. i might add. by the government of mexico to the press. that was the next logical step. then the state department at those hearings indicated they would make further inquiry as to the statethey asked specifically. "senator. would you forbear on the issue of observers. onsite observers. while we make inquiry of the mexican government as to whether or  the problem is as described in the hearings or described to us by the mexican government." i said of course i would hold back. and i did. the information was then received that the problem was as described in the hearings  as described in communications with the mexican government. at that point they agreed to my sugcxxvi----68--part 1 gestion that a communique be addressed to the mexican government asking that onsite observers from the united states. from a. from the crisis team headed up by the coast guard. be permitted to go onsite. it is that inquiry which has received response. so i had tried every step of the way to do the logical. i k this is  the time for any embargo yet. but it is time to indicate that we are concerned in a followon way. that is all that is being asked for here today. you should k that within the last 2 or 3 days a has  sent back its entire team into the gulf of mexico. they are  doing this just on a flight of fancy. clearly the problem has again reached serious proportions. if anybody else can suggest a more logical succession of steps than what i had done here please do so. it is  just popping up at the last minute. i grant you ody wants to listen. everybody is pussyfooting around the place on this problem because they are afraid of offending mexico because we need that $32 a barrel oil. let us understand the decisions and the tradeoffs we must make in the course of those decisions. what i am  going to tell you is that there is  an ongoing oil spill. what i am  going to do is go ahead and keep silent to give the american people the impression that everything is all right in the gulf of mexico. this is the problem. this is the ongoing situation. and if we care to ige it. let us do so consciously and let us do so by vote of the u.s. senate. . that vote might be a little bit embarrassing if the crisis is as severe as i believe it to be. it might be a little bit embarrassing a couple of months from  if. indeed. those shrimp grounds are wiped out. but there you are. there you have it. you have got to make a choice. quite frankly. defending the government of mexico. which is the one that created the problem and which has been less than candid with the government of the united states. that is the least of my worries at this juncture. my concerns are for the citizens of this country. whether they be fishermen or whether they are those who are residing along the coastline which are going to be affected by the lack of action by the mexican government.
i would agree that we would all think that. the fact remains. the history of the situation was that they were. first. too proud to ask the united states for techogy assistance when theirs was  up to the task. they then went ahead and imported tehogy. i believe from sweden or one of the scandinavian countries. which did  work. then they turned to the united states. asked for assistance. and then abandoned that. to a great degree. and sort of tried to cure the problem by hushing it down so the united states would  k what was going on. the senator is correct. he said initial information was that the flow had been stopped to only a degree. the difficulty is that the mexicans said it was down to 1.000 or 2.000 barrels a day. right . the estimates are between 5.000 and 50.000 barrels a day. which is a great deal more than the first estimate. the problem here is that this is probably the greatest manmade disaster in the history of the world. it is down there right . there has been hing to compare with it. as an advocate of offshore drilling up to this point- i might add. off the new england statesi would only suggest that to turn our heads. stick them in the sand at this juncture. is hardly an adequate response to a nation that either will  answer our inquiries or. when it answers the inquiries. patently lies about the situation. that is the difficulty i am having. what i have asked of the foreign relations committee and its distinguished subcommittee chairman is that. since i seem to be waging this battle alone. i k what will happen here. i will be proven right very shortly on the shores of the senators own state. in about a months time. because the currents have shifted. but i do  want to be in a position of saying "i told you so." i want all the kledge at hand to be brought to bear on the problem in campeche.
will the senator join me if i modify the amendment to the extent of requesting of the mexican government a report on the status of ixtoc i by such and such a date. as i said before. as the senator correctly identifies. there is almost aid. i am trying to bring the focus on the problem. there is aid. if there is anything in there. it is peanuts. that is  what i am trying to achieve here. the fact is that this situation has been iged and iged and iged by the senate of the united states. i am saying  that i need a few allies. i have the state department writing a letter. and we have the energy committee with its 1 day of hearings. i am trying to marshal a little muscle on behalf of those who would like to have an answer to the problem. i would be more than glad to modify the amendment to request of the government of mexico a response in the sense of what the result of the ixtoc oil spill is. by such and such a date. i would be glad to do that.
. i am pleased to offer legislation today to address the growing national concern regarding safety of nuclear powered generating stations. disposal of nuclear waste. and safe transport of nuclear materials. the kemeny and the rogovin studies of the recent and unfolding incident at three mile island. as well as numerous other studies of the industrial nuclear cycle have found too little attention paid to the people charged with responsibility for safe operations and management. the bill i offer addresses this problem by calling for the creation of a specially trained work force of highly skilled and motivated professionals to staff and operate control rooms of nuclear powered electric generating stations. nuclear waste storage facilities. and nuclear material transportation operations. radiation in one form or aher is part of our world: every living thing is exposed to it from the moment of conception. radiation is  unlike fire: its characteristics make it useful and beneficial to humankind. yet when uncontrolled those same characteristics make it dangerous. radioactivity and radiation are certainly  the panacea once thought. the dream of beneficent use of nuclear radiation can become a nightmare caused by nuclear disaster. what of the dream. there is improved diagis and treatment of illness and disease. improved manufacturing processes and industrial products. increased kledge of our world and living organisms in it. and smokeless electric power generation. however. just as beneficent use of fire produces waste products potentially harmful to the biosphere. so do all these uses of nuclear energy and processes. what of the nightmare. almost daily one hears of the problems attributable to the use of nuclear energy: in the case of electric power generation. the three mile island incident and its potential contamination of the air we breathe and the water we drink. in the case of nuclear waste transport. leaking containers and the possible radioactive contamination of our land and water. in the case of nuclear material storage again we hear of leaking containers with the consequence that one state is anxious to store radioactive wastes generated by activities in aher state. yet despite these problems. it appears that use of nuclear radiation for one purpose or aher is here to stay. by personal choice in the case of medical and research purposes. in the case of existing and operating nuclear powered generating stations. by necessity. since in the united states today some 70 nuclear units account for approximately 13 percent of electric generating capacity. in my own state of connecticut three units account for 34 percent of total generating capacity. and in 1979 over 50 percent of connecticuts energy requirements were met by nuclear power. some of the problems dealing with nuclear power have been diaged as having to do with waste storage and disposal. consequently a number of my colleagues here in this chamber have suggested ways of dealing with this issue. i myself have offered an amendment to the nrc authorization bill which would place a 1year moratorium on the dumping of radioactive wastes in the ocean. that of course will  stop other nations from doing so either by plan or accident. i want to k what effects such a procedure will have on marine life which through the fish and fish products we consume plays a significant role in our daily lives. i plan to introduce statements to clarify the senates sense of the research intended in the national ocean pollution research and development and monitoring act of 1978 (public law 95273) later this session. in addition important problems have been uncovered in the organization and function of the nrc. as mentioned previously. industry has been found to place too heavy a reliance on techogy and machines to do the work. too little attention has been directed toward education and training of those who are responsible for operating and controlling the operation of nuclear energy and of storage of nuclear wastes. to their credit. the nuclear power utilities have recently created the institute of nuclear power operationsinpoto address shortcomings in plant operations. but inpos program would only train those who would train opera-
. we have played with our energy crisis for 7 years . and there is end in sight.  for this problem.  for our playing with it.  for the political gutlessness that prevents us from dealing with that problem which is the principal cause of the present inflation rate. i k that my position in this budgetcutting carnival will  prevail . and i k from my experience that my views on how to meet our energy crisis will  prevail . today. or tomorrow. in this congress. but i do k that a day will come when we will either step back from this ecoic folly or we will go ahead with it and reap the social whirlwind. and then we will return to wisdom. i do k that we will  solve our energy problem until we confront opec with domestic rationing and with strong ecoic incentives for domestic production. and i will see the day when we do take these necessary steps. irrespective of who gets the political credit for it. thank you
. i urge the support of the senate for this resolution as an opportunity to demonstrate that this body is serious about energy conservation. and is determined that the american people understand our seriousness. the question is one of leadership. we are limited in what we can do. but we do have an initiative. and within that initiative. we must do all that we can.o
. i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleagues. senators bumpers. jackson. and tsongas. in introducing s. 2686. legislation to protect the undeveloped and unprotected barrier islands of the nations atlantic and gulf coasts. much of our nations coastline. from maine down along the atlantic states to florida and west along the gulf coast to mexico. is separated from the oceans by a thin strip of sand spits and islands. these natural mosaics of water and sand are one of our nations great resources. because they are offshore barriers they provide protection for the mainland against inevitable storm surges and hurricanes. the wetlands and bays which they enclose provide habitat for the early life stages of most of the marine life that will be caught by the nations fishermen. both inshore and on the high seas. finally. they provide delightful places for americans to live and play. barrier islands are dynamic. with each surge of the sea. inlets can be closed or islands washed away. because of this precarious existence and the vulnerability to storms many barrier islands are unsuited for development. yet each year the federal government provides hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies to promote development and redevelopment. these subsidies are estimated at $500 million from 1975 to 1977 for roads. bridges. and utilities. because of the islands vulnerability to storms. additional subsidies are required to assure survival of this development. flood insurance losses will cost the federal government an estimated $400 million in 1980 and an average of $75 million are spent annually for island stabilization and rebuilding programs. in december of 1979. the department of the interior completed a study of the nations barrier islands and made the observation that the instability of these islands makes many of them hazardous to building. additionally. mans efforts to stabilize the islands are usually short lived and often cause damage. for example. groynes and jetties that are built to keep sand from drifting away by projecting out to sea may trap sand on their upcurrent side. but can cause damage by allowing erosion on their downcurrent side. because of these conditions. the study observed. the development of barrier islands should be carefully controlled. there is an urgency in responding to barrier island development. these islands are already 14 percent urbanized as compared to 3 percent urbanization nationwide. of the approximately 186 barrier islands on the atlantic and gulf coasts only 68 remain unspoiled and many are threatened with development. each year that we wait before implementing a new barrier island policy we will be adding to the financial obligations of an already heavily burdened federal budget. being the first line of natural defense against hurricanes and winter storms. the barrier islands usually sustain the heaviest storm damage. concern has grown over the increased risk to human lives as these areas are developed. many islands are dependent on a single bridge or ferry for evacuation which may be inadequate without proper warning. since 1900. 18.000 lives have been lost in hurricanes and winter storms. the legislation which i am cosponsoring today would provide protection for undeveloped barrier islands by prohibiting federal expenditures. assistance or approval for construction on specified barrier island areas. except activities related to energy development. public recreation and the protection of the barrier island ecosystem. the specified lands total almost 500.000 acres in 182 sites on the atlantic and gulf coasts and are identified on maps available in the office of the secretary of the interior. in addition. the legislation would establish the barier islands advisory council to study the islands and make recommendations to federal agencies before actions are taken which may have an adverse effect on them. i hope that my colleagues will join with me in supporting the protection of our undeveloped and unprotected barrier islands this is an opportunity to protect the coastal ecosystem that can contribute renewable resources to our ecoy for generations to come. and finally. this is an opportunity to encourage our citizens to live behind these barriers that nature has provided and be shielded from the storms that have already claimed thousands of lives.*
. this success can easily be realized in the field of energy conservation through s. 2635. the office of techogy assessment (ota) in a recent study estimates that small businesses account for 25 percent of the total energy used by manufacturing and 6 percent of total u.s. consumption. otas review of the assistance offered under s. 2635 indicates that by 1990 the equivalent of 300.000 barrels of oil per day could be conserved and by the year 2000 a savings of 450.000 barrels of oil per day could be achieved. this legislation represents but one of a number of steps that this nation must take to combat the present energy crisis. this nations reliance on insecure foreignsource oil threatens our ecoy and national security. in the shortterm. the only effective weapon that we have against opec is energy conservation and measures which enhance this effort. if given the necessary financial tools. businesses will continue to play an everincreasing role in curtaiiing our consumption of scarce energy resources. i urge the adoption of this legislation as a small but important step in this direction.*
i thank my distinguished colleague for his comments. who has seen more history than anyone on this floor. and who understands what is necessary in terms of everyone participating. people come up to me as they do so many politicians and they tend to deride their own system of government. they say. "well. all politicians are crooks. they all have their hands in the till. they all do  care." i say to them. "well. this is a representative democracy and. indeed. if that is what you attribute to me. what are you." well. if there is "you" out there. if there is participation. without question you are going to get secondrate government. on the other hand. if they give expression to the best that resides in them. it is going to find its way to the floor here. people ask me. "how am i going to k when we have an energy policy." do you k how i respond.  of the united states. it is something that has to involve all of us. yes. all of us have to be available to the armed forces of the united states or. indeed. as i have expressed before.  to the armed forces only but to the laboratories of this nation. to the schools of this nation. to the urban programs of this nation. all of us. when that happens. believe me we will have a product that we can be proud of. i have stood here. as i have said before. and it is  popular in the energy field. speaking for rationing and mandatory conservation. but if we had been for it we would  be in the problems we are in . how long have we been wandering around these energy woods with prospects of lower prices and stable supplies. is that to be preferred to biting the bullet. to giving the hard answers and having these matters once and for all resolved. i understand we have a terrible difficulty right  in our armed services. and i do  think it is with our weapons systems. i think it is with our people. i think it is with our people who serve. i do  think we should have an allvolunteer army or professional army. and i think the problem is with those who are available or would be available in times of emergency. it is a people problem. to send a message here that we can take the most basic. minimal administrative step. which believe me shows that we will certainly  have anything more extensive within this nation will mean that the soviet union will once again read the united states and find us wanting. that is what worries me. every time they do that the aggression comes closer and closer to us. there is avoiding the final result.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply on the 1982 department of energy authorization for programs which fall within this subcommittees. jurisdiction. the hearing will be held on monday. april 6. 1981. at 9:30 a.m. in room 3110 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. room 3104 dirksen senate office building. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding the hearing. you may wish to contact mr.gary barbour at 2240613.
. i am pleased to support senator harts amendment for the energy function within the budget. i am happy to support this amendment for several reasons: first. a general acrosstheboard cut for the department of energy reduces overall outlays for fiscal year 1981 by some $34 million. reduces outlays for fiscal year 1982 by an additional $10 million. and permits us the time to develop additional cuts for fiscal year 1983. more importantly. the hart amendment. if passed. will enable both secretary edwards and the senate energy committee to properly review all energy programs and create an intelligent report policy for this country. on several occasions. secretary edwards has testified before the senate energy committee that he does  have an energy policy. that he looks forward to creating an energy policy with congress. fine. i support that approach. the problem is that the budget itself creates policywith or without oversight or authorization hearings. of course. the department of energy has its full share of wasteful. overlapping programs. but. i doubt very much that secretary edwards or even david stockman has been able to identify all the waste and inefficiency at the energy department in the few months that they have been in office. yet. they seem prepared to completely halt energy initiatives in several areas. while heavily tilting the energy budget toward some nuclear programsan area which might. in fact. be ready for commercialization rather than continued federal subsidies. make mistake. i have been a strong supporter of nuclear energy. i will likely continue to be a nuclear power supporter. but i believe that both congress and the executive branch should have the opportunity to review existing programs and policies before launching into a narrowgauge elimination of energy programs already on the books. so. senator harts amendment gives us the time to review all energy programs and. at the same time. achieve the administrations goal of substantially reducing federal spending.*
. in response to my friend and colleague from pennsylvania i would first say that the 10pcrcent allocation is intended to support ongoing weatherization services within a btate. and should  be construed so as to supplant other federal aid programs whose primary purpose is to do just weatherization or energyrelated activities. with regard to my colleagues second question. about defining "weatherization" for the purposes of this program. it should be the intent of this program that these weatherization funds be used primarily for "lowcost/ost" materials designed to improve the energy efficiency of the dwelling. funds should also be available for the retrofitting of antiquated or dilapidated furnaces and airconditioners. installing hot water heater blankets and pipe insulation and installing attic insulation. all of which have been shown to greatly improve the quality of the home environment and increase the energy efficiency of the building.
. in response to my good friend and distinguished colleague i would answer "yes" to all three of his questions. section 5(c) (4) assures that each state agree to "coordinate its activities under this subpart with similar and related programs run by the federal government and such state. particularly lowincome weatherization." these suggestions offered by the senator from pennsylvania are clearly consistent with the intent of the committee in this regard and could be adopted by a state to fulfill the mandate for coordination. i fully agree that coordination of weatherization assistance and fuel payments is a critical part of a successful energy assistance program.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider the department of interiors proposed 5year plan for- oil and gas development in the outer continental shelf. this oversight hearing will be held on tuesday. october 6. beginning at 8:30 ain. in room 3110 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. room 3104. dirksen senate office building. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. gary barbour of the subcommittee staff at 2240013.
 may invoke a rationing plan for gasoline and diesel fuel provided that the burden of reduced supplies of gasoline and diesel fuel be shared in a fair and equitable manner and that the ecoic and social impacts of such a rationing plan be iminimized and. that such a plan should be sufficiently flexible to respond to changed conditions and sufficiently simple to be effectively administered and enforced.
. if there are further senators desiring to speak on this amendment. i ask unanimous consent that it be temporarily laid aside and that my amendment dealing with the lowincome energy assistance be read.
. i rise to join with the distinguished senator from massachusetts in offering this amendment. let me say that there is hing extraordinary about the figures being presented to this body at this time. a year ago. indeed over a year ago. these figures were presented to this body and to the committee on appropriations and to the administration.  in order to achieve some bottomline figure that was in line with the administrations budget. we disregarded the valid figures which had been placed before the senate and before the appropriations committee. and reduce the lowincome energy assistance amounts. all this does is come up to the figure previously negotiated with the administration during consideration of the budget reconciliation act. and even that figure was lower than that which was expected to be necessary in order to fulfill the needs of those eligible for lowincome energy assistance. i do  want anybody to call foul or surprise or say that this is something new. it is hing new at all. it is very old. the additional moneys requested here bring us to the total which has been agreed to. $1.875 billion. and to wait and study and have it go through the committee processwe might get around to it sometime in july or august. the fact is. that this is february and those in need of it need it . they do  need it 4 or 5 or 6 months from .
first of all. the senator is correct. he was  at that meeting. the senator is also correct when he says that the context was authorization. nevertheless. the expectation was that the administration had committed itself to $1.875 billion for lowincome energy assistance. and i ought to k. because this was a very complex package that was being argued out. it involved  only lowincome energy assistance. it involved education. it involved legal services. it involved assistance to the retarded and disabled. and it was a very complex package. but clearly a part of that package was $1.875 billion for lowincome energy assistance. and it was  just words. it was an agreedupon amount which was going to be available. february 10. -1982 february 10. 1982 coin then we go through this mickey mouse routine of the continuing resolution and the reconciliations. somehow these procedures give an excuse to the administration to back off its word. the bottom line is that the agreement that i thought was arrived at. in terms of delivering dollars to those in need. was broken. and it was broken up to this moment. all we are trying to do is to say. regardless of the semantics or the procedures. let us live up to what was agreed upon. i will be the first one to say to the senator that he was  in that negotiating session. so in way do i mean to imply any lack of good faith on his .part. i want to make that a part of the record. but i certainly do hold the administration to its word for $1.875 billion.
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference legislation to authorize the government of american samoa to issue bonds and other obligations. and for other purposes. i am introducing this legislation at the request of gover coleman in order to obtain the views of the administration and the government of american samoa. similar legislation has been introduced in the house of representatives by congressman sunia. the delegate from american samoa. i ask unanimous consent that the text of two letters from gover coleman to the chairman of the committee on energy and natural resources. together with a sectionbysection analysis and a factsheet. be printed in full in the record together with the text of the proposed legislation.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on surface transportation of the committee on commerce. scieneg and transportation. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. september. 16. at 9:30 a.m.. to hold an oversight hearing on coal slurry pipelines.
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference two measures dealing with the teritories and insular possessions of the united states. the first measure contains the texts of two measures introduced during the last congress which were the subject of hearings before the committee on energy and natural resources. the committee deferred action at the request of the administration to enable it to discuss the provisions further with representatives of the territorial governments. title i contains one of the recommendations of the interim report of the thern mariana islands commission on federal laws and was introduced at the request of the commission last congress on february 9. 1982. as 5. 2088. hearings were conducted by the committee on energy and natural resources on september 13. 1982. at which time the administration testified that it supported the objectives of the measure but requested additional time review the precise wording. title ii contains provisions of s. 2729 which i introduced to amend various provisions of the organic legislation for guam and the virgin islands. that legislation was drafted. at my request. by the department of the interior to modify existing federal organic legislation for the territories to permit a local constitution to become effective. when the proposed constitution for the virgin islands was defeated. territorial representatives agreed that certain improvement in the federal organic legislation would still be desirable. during hearings on 8. 2729 on september 13. 1982. the administration asked for more time to review several of the provisions and consult with territorial representatives. accordingly. the committee deferred consideration of those items while the rehiainder were enacted as part of public law 97357. i am reintroducing the deferred provisions as a basis for both the territories and the administration to offer their recommendations. the second measure i am introducing was drafted. at my request. by the staff of the committee on energy and natural resources to identify those provisions of federal law codified under title 48 dealing with territories and insular possessions which are archaic and should be repealed. these provisions were. for the most part. enacted in the mid to late 19th century to address issues affecting the western territories and were  repealed as those territories entered the union. i am introducing this measure to afford both the territories and the administration the opportunity to review these laws to determine whether any have a continuing use so that the remainder can be repealed.e by mr. heflin:
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider s. 1366. to implement the recommendations of the interim report of the thern mariana islands commission on federal laws and to amend the revised organic act of the virgin islands and the organic act of guam. and for other purposes. and s. 1367. to repeal certain provisions of law relating to the territories and insular possessions of the united states. the hearing will be held on thursday. october 6. beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further informaton regarding the hearing you may wish to contact mr jim beirne of the subcommittee staff at 2242564.
. it was my extreme privilege to serve with senator henry jackson during 13 of his 31 years in the senate. and i can say from personal experience that a man more dedicated to public service never entered these doors. looking back over the course of his life. people marvel that the same scoop jackson who upbraided joseph s.12158 mccarthy and company for their redbaiting tactics also came down harder on the soviet union than most members of this body. particularly where its emigration policies were concerned. but really. when you think about it.. in both cases the same principle was at stake..that of individual liberty versus unreasoning official persecution. principles were what scoop jackson paid allegiance to.  labels. at various times and on various issues. he was called a hawk. a liberal. a conservative. and a communist. he refused to be hemmed in by any such characterization. "i dont worry about ideologies." he said. what senator jackson did worry about was striking a balance between all extremes. a balance that served the best interests of all americans. and  just a special interest or two. when i came to the energy and natural resources committee in 1977. he had been its chairman for 15 years. he never ceased his search for the correct balance between conservation and development of our natural resources. he spearheaded the national environmental protection act and when the 96th congress came to be kn as the energy congress. it did so largely because of his leadership. he had a major hand in fashioning every bit of energy legislation  on thebooks. his hard work and devotion have benefited us all. there are many more adjectives and anecdotes that could be used in a tribute to scoop jackson. but the surest testament to a mans greatness is the vacuum left by his passing. in scoops case. that vacuum is felt  just by his family. to whom i extend my deep regrets. but also by his colleagues. his constituents. and the country as a whole. it will  soon be filled.
i appreciate the problem the senator from vermont identifies. and i tssure him that it is my intent. as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee. to provide the necessary funds for this program. if states are forced to cut benefits. restrict eligibility. or close their doors during the winter months. and if mr. stockmans proposed reapportionment presents insurmountable technical difficulties because of the formula under the program. i will do everything humanly possible to get an emergency supplemental appropriation moving through this congress at the end of january or early february. obviously. the compromise the 0mb has put forward is  ideal. but again. i assure my colleague it is my intent to reduce the 1983 level of effort for the energy assistance program. and to the best of my ability. i will see that such a reduction does  take place.
. i would like to [umounce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to receive testimony on h.r. 3169. to amend the energy policy and conservation act *. facilitate commerce by the domestic renewable energy industry and related service industries. the hearing will be held on thursday. march 8. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. room sd360. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. for further information regarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the st:.bcommittee staff at 2242366.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider h.r. 3169. to amend the energy policy and conservation act to facilitate commerce by the domestic renewable energy industry and related service industries. the hearing will be held on thursday. march 22. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd86 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the subcommittee staff at 2244236.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider h.r. 5561. to enhance the ecoic development of guam. the virgin islands. american samoa. and the thern mariana islands. and for other purposes. the hearing will be held on thursday. july 26. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366. dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. dc 20510. for further information regarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. jim beirne at 2242564. or mr. al stayman at 2242366.
that is also correct. this figure is. of course. a small fraction of 1 percent of program resources. in addition. the department is  estimating it may realize as much as half tnat amount in administrative savings which it could contribute to this longer term purpose of making more effective use of energy assistance funds.
. it is an unfortunate fact that winters cold hreatens most those people who are least able to afford the high cost of energy. few of us can imagine what a difficult choice it must be to choose between heat and food. but that is a decision faced each winter by millons of poor. elderly and handicapped americans. the weatherization assist. ance program offers sowe relief to these individuals and families by providing them assistance in weatherizing their homes and thereby reducing energy costs. on june 14. 1984. as chairman of tie subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. i and several colleagues held hearings on the weatherization assistance program. we received testimony indicating continued broad support for the program. and although major changes were recommended. suggestions were made for mi improvements and increased state and local flexibility in program administration. we would like to ask your support in enacting these improvements into law. accordingly. i would like to offer the content of the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 as an amendment to s. 2565.the head start. community services block grant. and low income home energy assistance reauthorization. specifically. the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 contains several provisions which will enhance state and local administrative flexibility and increase program effectiveness without additional cost. for example. some individuals and families which receive energy assistarlce under the low income energy assistance program elieapi are  eligible for the weatherization program. if these families were eligible. however. then weatherizing their homes would reduce their energy costs and allow lieap funis to go farther. section 2 of the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 would correct this inconsistency. in addition. there is currently a $150 limit on the repairs which can be made during a home weatherization. even when repairs are the most cost effective means of increasing energy efficiency. sections 3 and 4 of this act would  only repeal this $150 repair limit but would also repeal the costly and timeconsuming rulemaking process which currently must be followed when introducing new energy saving measures to the list of measures eligible for the weatherization assistance program. in addition. section 4 will allow an average statewide maximum expenditure of $1.600 per house. this improvement omits the timeconsuming waiver process which currently must be followed in order to provide for the $1.600 maximum expenditure. this section also increases state administrator flexibility by allowing them to calculate material and labor expenditures as statewide averages instead of using the current per dwelling method. i think that all %%ill agree that it is the local administrators who are best able to make the final judgment on how program funds will be spent. so long as they remain within the programs overall guidelines. finally. this act allows the program to "revisit" homes which were partially weatherized under other federal programs (community services administration) prior to 1979. these homes would be allowed to receive further assistance to meet the new program guidelines. the enactment of this amendment as part of the committee substitute to s. 2565 will improve the effectiveness of the weatherization assistance program and improve the benefits which it provides to the less fortunate in america. and i urge its adoption. i am very pleased to have a number of my distinguished colleagues from both sides as cosponsors to this amendment. senators heinz. bradley. and stafford have been important contributors and we have been joined by senators cohen. warner. hat-
. i send to the desk for appropriate reference two measures dealing with the teritories and insular possessions of the united states. the first measure contains the texts of two measures introduced during the last congress which were the subject of hearings before the committee on energy and natural resources. the committee deferred action at the request of the administration to enable it to discuss the provisions further with representatives of the territorial governments. title i contains one of the recommendations of the interim report of the thern mariana islands commission on federal laws and was introduced at the request of the commission last congress on february 9. 1982. as 5. 2088. hearings were conducted by the committee on energy and natural resources on september 13. 1982. at which time the administration testified that it supported the objectives of the measure but requested additional time review the precise wording. title ii contains provisions of s. 2729 which i introduced to amend various provisions of the organic legislation for guam and the virgin islands. that legislation was drafted. at my request. by the department of the interior to modify existing federal organic legislation for the territories to permit a local constitution to become effective. when the proposed constitution for the virgin islands was defeated. territorial representatives agreed that certain improvement in the federal organic legislation would still be desirable. during hearings on 8. 2729 on september 13. 1982. the administration asked for more time to review several of the provisions and consult with territorial representatives. accordingly. the committee deferred consideration of those items while the rehiainder were enacted as part of public law 97357. i am reintroducing the deferred provisions as a basis for both the territories and the administration to offer their recommendations. the second measure i am introducing was drafted. at my request. by the staff of the committee on energy and natural resources to identify those provisions of federal law codified under title 48 dealing with territories and insular possessions which are archaic and should be repealed. these provisions were. for the most part. enacted in the mid to late 19th century to address issues affecting the western territories and were  repealed as those territories entered the union. i am introducing this measure to afford both the territories and the administration the opportunity to review these laws to determine whether any have a continuing use so that the remainder can be repealed.e by mr. heflin:
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider s. 1366. to implement the recommendations of the interim report of the thern mariana islands commission on federal laws and to amend the revised organic act of the virgin islands and the organic act of guam. and for other purposes. and s. 1367. to repeal certain provisions of law relating to the territories and insular possessions of the united states. the hearing will be held on thursday. october 6. beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further informaton regarding the hearing you may wish to contact mr jim beirne of the subcommittee staff at 2242564.
. it was my extreme privilege to serve with senator henry jackson during 13 of his 31 years in the senate. and i can say from personal experience that a man more dedicated to public service never entered these doors. looking back over the course of his life. people marvel that the same scoop jackson who upbraided joseph s.12158 mccarthy and company for their redbaiting tactics also came down harder on the soviet union than most members of this body. particularly where its emigration policies were concerned. but really. when you think about it.. in both cases the same principle was at stake..that of individual liberty versus unreasoning official persecution. principles were what scoop jackson paid allegiance to.  labels. at various times and on various issues. he was called a hawk. a liberal. a conservative. and a communist. he refused to be hemmed in by any such characterization. "i dont worry about ideologies." he said. what senator jackson did worry about was striking a balance between all extremes. a balance that served the best interests of all americans. and  just a special interest or two. when i came to the energy and natural resources committee in 1977. he had been its chairman for 15 years. he never ceased his search for the correct balance between conservation and development of our natural resources. he spearheaded the national environmental protection act and when the 96th congress came to be kn as the energy congress. it did so largely because of his leadership. he had a major hand in fashioning every bit of energy legislation  on thebooks. his hard work and devotion have benefited us all. there are many more adjectives and anecdotes that could be used in a tribute to scoop jackson. but the surest testament to a mans greatness is the vacuum left by his passing. in scoops case. that vacuum is felt  just by his family. to whom i extend my deep regrets. but also by his colleagues. his constituents. and the country as a whole. it will  soon be filled.
i appreciate the problem the senator from vermont identifies. and i tssure him that it is my intent. as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee. to provide the necessary funds for this program. if states are forced to cut benefits. restrict eligibility. or close their doors during the winter months. and if mr. stockmans proposed reapportionment presents insurmountable technical difficulties because of the formula under the program. i will do everything humanly possible to get an emergency supplemental appropriation moving through this congress at the end of january or early february. obviously. the compromise the 0mb has put forward is  ideal. but again. i assure my colleague it is my intent to reduce the 1983 level of effort for the energy assistance program. and to the best of my ability. i will see that such a reduction does  take place.
. i would like to [umounce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to receive testimony on h.r. 3169. to amend the energy policy and conservation act *. facilitate commerce by the domestic renewable energy industry and related service industries. the hearing will be held on thursday. march 8. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the committee on energy and natural resources. subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. room sd360. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. for further information regarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the st:.bcommittee staff at 2242366.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider h.r. 3169. to amend the energy policy and conservation act to facilitate commerce by the domestic renewable energy industry and related service industries. the hearing will be held on thursday. march 22. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd86 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the subcommittee staff at 2244236.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to consider h.r. 5561. to enhance the ecoic development of guam. the virgin islands. american samoa. and the thern mariana islands. and for other purposes. the hearing will be held on thursday. july 26. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366. dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. dc 20510. for further information regarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. jim beirne at 2242564. or mr. al stayman at 2242366.
that is also correct. this figure is. of course. a small fraction of 1 percent of program resources. in addition. the department is  estimating it may realize as much as half tnat amount in administrative savings which it could contribute to this longer term purpose of making more effective use of energy assistance funds.
. it is an unfortunate fact that winters cold hreatens most those people who are least able to afford the high cost of energy. few of us can imagine what a difficult choice it must be to choose between heat and food. but that is a decision faced each winter by millons of poor. elderly and handicapped americans. the weatherization assist. ance program offers sowe relief to these individuals and families by providing them assistance in weatherizing their homes and thereby reducing energy costs. on june 14. 1984. as chairman of tie subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. i and several colleagues held hearings on the weatherization assistance program. we received testimony indicating continued broad support for the program. and although major changes were recommended. suggestions were made for mi improvements and increased state and local flexibility in program administration. we would like to ask your support in enacting these improvements into law. accordingly. i would like to offer the content of the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 as an amendment to s. 2565.the head start. community services block grant. and low income home energy assistance reauthorization. specifically. the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 contains several provisions which will enhance state and local administrative flexibility and increase program effectiveness without additional cost. for example. some individuals and families which receive energy assistarlce under the low income energy assistance program elieapi are  eligible for the weatherization program. if these families were eligible. however. then weatherizing their homes would reduce their energy costs and allow lieap funis to go farther. section 2 of the weatherization program administration reform act of 1984 would correct this inconsistency. in addition. there is currently a $150 limit on the repairs which can be made during a home weatherization. even when repairs are the most cost effective means of increasing energy efficiency. sections 3 and 4 of this act would  only repeal this $150 repair limit but would also repeal the costly and timeconsuming rulemaking process which currently must be followed when introducing new energy saving measures to the list of measures eligible for the weatherization assistance program. in addition. section 4 will allow an average statewide maximum expenditure of $1.600 per house. this improvement omits the timeconsuming waiver process which currently must be followed in order to provide for the $1.600 maximum expenditure. this section also increases state administrator flexibility by allowing them to calculate material and labor expenditures as statewide averages instead of using the current per dwelling method. i think that all %%ill agree that it is the local administrators who are best able to make the final judgment on how program funds will be spent. so long as they remain within the programs overall guidelines. finally. this act allows the program to "revisit" homes which were partially weatherized under other federal programs (community services administration) prior to 1979. these homes would be allowed to receive further assistance to meet the new program guidelines. the enactment of this amendment as part of the committee substitute to s. 2565 will improve the effectiveness of the weatherization assistance program and improve the benefits which it provides to the less fortunate in america. and i urge its adoption. i am very pleased to have a number of my distinguished colleagues from both sides as cosponsors to this amendment. senators heinz. bradley. and stafford have been important contributors and we have been joined by senators cohen. warner. hat-
. the last poll that was taken in my state of connecticut on this issueafter i annced my legislation calling for a gas taxindicated that 79 percent of the people in the state of connecticut were opposed to lowell weickers amendment on this matter of energy conservation. seventynine percent opposed. it does  make any difference to me. i can live with a poll. what i can live with is aher gasoline crisis. that is what this amendment would so clearly preempt.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on public lands. reserved water and resource conservation of the committee on energy and natural resources be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on 1 committee on energy and natural xyluiu4yuctuc1 ~lui aheiri11 resources on s. 1558. to settle certain claims af-
i will in a moment. he  seeks as a remedy to go ahead and impose a tax which will have its impact on those people in the theastern part of the united states. plus those alluded to by the senator from rhode island. if we are to address the problem. and the problem needs attention in terms of conservation so that we do  end up behind the opec 8ball again. let us have strict enforcement of the 55mileperhour speed limit. let us have mandatory conservation. let us have a national fuel tax. let us have all of these things. if i have ever seen parochial politics played it has been played out here on the floor where we protect the interests of the oil and gas interests. but  the national interest.
. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the subcommittee on public lands. reserved water and resource conservation. mr. wallop. for his assistance in moving this bill through the senate energy committee. his cooperation was invaluable to our efforts to bring this bill to final passage in the senate this year. the state of connecticut sincerely appreciates his help.e
. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the chairman of the subcommittee on public lands. reserved water and resource conservation. mr. wallop. for his assistance in moving this bill through the senate energy committee. his cooperation was invaluable to our efforts to bring this bill to final passage in the senate this year. the state of connecticut sincerely appreciates his help.o
. this legislation achieves two broad objectives. either of which continue to be compelling reasons for its enactment. first. this bill would establish uniform national appliance energy efficiency standards which would preempt janu~ary 6. 1987 is 136 january 6. 1987 con( the growing number of separate and n conflicting state standards. such pre- t emption greatly reduces the regula- 1 tory burdens that separate state c standards place on the appliance in- r dustry. second. this bill would significantly c reduce the nations demand for elec- t tricity. such a reduction in energy e demand will assist the nation in meet- t ing furture energy needs and in reduc- i ing our growing dependence on foreign energy resources. how soon we forget the energy crisis of the seventies. we should  kid ourselves. the energy crisis is still out there and it is certain to be a chronic national problem. this legislation is the single largest step we are  in a position to take to prepare ourselves to meet that challenge. i sincerely hope that this administration will  continue to bury its -head in the sand. but will recognize that energy efficiency standards are a valid and essential part of a national energy policy. the history of appliance efficiency standards goes back to 1975. when congress passed the energy policy and conservation act eepcai. epca directed the department of energy to consider the establishment of appliance energy efficiency standards in response to the energy crisis which the nation then faced. in 1978. the congress amended epca to require the department of energy to establish appliance energy efficiency standards. however. in 1983 the department ruled that standards were ecoically justified. this "tandard" standard was challenged in court and in july 1985. the d.c. district court of appeals ruled against the department and ordered that substantive standards must be issued. unfortunately. it will be at least 2 years before the department can promulgate new standards. in the meantime. the court ruling and current doe practice allow the fifty states. to establish their own state regulations regarding. appliance energy efficiency. states are continuing to enact their own regulations which result in a growing patchwork of separate and conflicting regulations. this patchwork of statebystate regulations has made a nightmare of the design. production and marketing plans of the nations appliance manufacturersi one excellent example of the problems which have resulted from this patchwork of regulations is a small but growing traffic.in "smuggled" appliances. particularly in my region of the country. appliance retailers have already found that customers are willing to drive to other. states in order to purchase cheaper and less efficient appliances. it is obvious that.uniform national standards would substantially reduce the current regulatory burden on the appliance industry. . it was in an effort to develop such national standards that representatives of the appliance industry began
 pocket vetoed this act. the administration asserted in its veto message that this bill would interfere in the free market and preclude the purchase of inexpensive appliances. this reasoning is shortsighted and fails to recognize the basic intent of this legislation. first. the bill would establish uniform national appliance standards which would preempt the growing number of separate and conflicting state standards. second. this bill would significantly .reduce the nations demand for energy. if appliances will cost more. and many manufacturers feel that the cost will  increase significantly. the savings due to reduced fuel costs and energy conserved in this nation more than offset the costs. here again i restate my concern that the nation has failed to develop an energy policy capable of dealing with the nations pressing energy problems. energy conservation must remain and be strengthened as an integral part of any policy. this act goes a long way toward -a sound energy policy. support for this bill was unanimous in congress last year and remains just as strong today. the reasons for support of the bill remain compelling and i urge my colleagues to pass it swiftly and unanimously.
 of the united states has insisted that the contra policy which his administration has pursued is a proper one insofar as keeping communism out of our hemisphere. along with stating his policy has been the intimation put forth more than once by the administration that failure to support the administration in that policy in effect would permit the entry of communism throughout the hemisphere. in other words. either you are for the reagan contra policy or you are for hing. well. of course. that is  an accurate reflection as to how many of us believe. many of us believe  as we have for years that americans should be activists in that part of the world: doing what we do best. whether in terms of medicine. education. agriculture. all those matters of human endeavor in which our country exists. i guess it was all brought home the other day when that fine young american. from i believe. the state of washington was killed in nicaragua while working on a hydroelectric project.
. these bills are recommended by experts for the advancement of fuel cell techogy. it is my .belief that we must promote emerging techogies in order to conserve energy supplies. decrease our dependence upon foreign oil stocks. and promote the establishment of a longterm energy stability in our countrys ecoy. i feel these bills will assist the united states in this effort. i encourage my colleagues to consider and lend their support to these bills. by mr. matsunaga (for himself. mr. evans. and mr. iye):
. i have objection if the distinguished senator from th carolina wants to go ahead and make the unanimousconsent request to setaside the lowincome energy assistance amendment in order that he might go ahead and submit. his amendment.
again. until i have a chance to see it. because i k how carefully these matters have iken worked out within the subcommittee. i am  prepared to see that kind of a transfer of funds. i could  agree to ally time agreement on the amendment of the senator from california. i say also that i have a senseofthesenate resolution on lowincome energy assistance which should  take any longer than 5 minutes. there should  be a rollcall vote unless somebody wants one.
. basically this is a senseofthesenate resolution which brings focus upon the lowincome home energy assistance program. we will be going to conference with a lower figure for this prograin than the house. the fact remains that by the time all this goes into law. winter will be upon us. i think the house figures more closely resemble the reality of this nation in the wintertime than do the senate figures. i hope the senseofthesenate resolution will be adopted. that we will make sure that neither those who are in extreme heat. as in the southern states. or in extreme cold. as in the thern states. would suffer for a lack of funds to provide whatever heating or cooling temperatures are needed. i hope the amendment is agreed to. i understand it has the approval of the distinguished chairman of the committee. i might add that i submitted the proposed amendment on behalf of senators heinz. mitchell. simon.
. i want to thank the junior senator from maine for bringing this matter to the attention of the senate. in making our proposal to the secretary of defense we have tried to offer an alternative that is fully consistent with national security needs as set forth by the department of defense in its own earlier staff level presentation to the task force. this recommendation offers both improvement of our ability to meet our national security needs and. at the same time. greatly increases the annual volume of oil imports to the considerable advantage of american consumers. i am hopeful that all who are concerned with this program will realize that as presently structured it does  and can serve the best interest of the country. we must look to the task force for relief from the intolerable burden that this system has placed upon us. the embattled consumers of this nation agree: major reforms of our oil import system are needed .
. this mornings wall street journal contains a lead editorial which discusses some of the wider ramifications of our present mandatory oil import program. it has been a welldocumented fact that this unfair and inequitable program has placed an artificial floor under the price of crude oil and petroleum products sold in this country. this price has. in small measure. contributed to the general inflationary spiral which  grips our nations ecoy. specifically. the office of emergency preparedness has estimated that the per capita cost of this program to the people of massachusetts was $37.50 in 1969. ironically. this tribute paid by the residents of an oilconsuming state was far exceeded by the per capita cost of $62.50 paid by the residents of wyoming. an oilproducing state. there is little rhyme or reason to a program which charges those closest to the source of production even more than it takes from those residents of a region totally devoid of any oil production. it is unfair to both. the journal has succinctly stated the folly of continuing this inequitable program. i ask unanimous consent that this editorial be printed at this point in the record.
if i may interrupt the distinguished senator from new jersey at that point. let me say first that i believe that the distinguished senior senator from new jersey was the first. or certainly among the first. to join as a cosponsor of this resolution in its original form. as he has well pointed out. at that time he also had proposed a similar resolution which called for unilateral suspension. i want the senator to k how great a contribution he made in the early stages of this effort and also when this resolution was before the committee on foreign relations. the senator has referred to part of the report language which indicates that the committee on foreign relations wants to include and intends to include a moratorium on operational flight testing of mirv. this is of great significance bcause even though it has been annced that mirvs could be deployed as early as june of 1970. which is a few months from . it is obvious that it will be necessary to continue flight testing of this techogy in order that we might perfect it and in order that we might have more reliability and greater accuracy. of course. if this flight testing continued this would only mean that the soviet union would then want to continue flight testing of its mirv. if it is flight testing mirvs. if they continue and perfect their mirvs. added to their mirvs. or ss9s. with their superior megatonnage. it would be a serious threat to the security of the united states and then would cause us to add to our arsenal again. which would add more fuel to the nuclear race. so i think it is very important and i am very pleased that the committee on foreign relations has contained in its report language which clearly indicates its intent. and the intent of the resolution. that we ask for a moratorium on further flight testing of mirv. as well as on deployment of this devastating nuclear device.
. i certainly wish to commend the distinguished senator from new hampshire for making this very timely statement on the condition of the fuel oil supply in the new england states. the senator has been in the forefront of this battle to see that the many. many consumers of fuel oil in new england will  be discriminated against. there is question that we are paying more for fuel oil than we should. but even worse than that. there is a services shortage of fuel oil at the present time which gives us great concern. there is question that there is need for a free trade zone and a refinery in new england. the senator has been one of the leaders in the battle to acquire this free trade zone. we have worked together. as have our other colleagues in new england. i think we have had unanimity in the new england congressional delegation in fighting for a free trade zone and a refinery in new england. but still there is e after many years. long before i came to the senate. and i think before the distinguished senator from new hampshire came to the senate. we had this problem of shortages. high prices. and high costs. particularly for  2 fuel oil in the new england states. could the senator enlighten me as to the status of the application for a free trade zone at the present time. when we last discussed this matter. as i recall. there had been a unanimous vote or recommendation on the part of some advisory body.
 i think he is absolutely correct in what he has said. i want to point out to the distinguished senator from illis that our distinguished chairman has put in the record the consensus of the committee pertaining to this matter. as is contained in the report of the committee. i think it is well to point out  only what happened about spending this $5 millionplus in the conversion from coal to oil. but that we also want negotiations to have them assume full responsibility for this program. even the coal program. by the german government. so it is  a matter of forestalling or denying funds for conversion. but we would like them to take over the full financial responsibility for paying for the heating and maintenance of those barracks. i do  k what that actual sum amounts to at the present time. but it is considerable. of course. we are encountering difficulties. in the manpower shortages. in trying to get persons who are needed to stoke the coal. and so forth. so considerably more than the $5.8 million is involved. if we are successful in our negotiations with the german government in having it assume full financial responsibility for these barracks.
. the distinguished senior senator from new york has given today a lucid and timely reminder of the fact that although the united states faces several serious crises at present. its fundamental ability to fulfill its obligations. both domestically and abroad. remains largely unimpaired. i concur fully with the sentiments expressed by senator javts. i have recently returned from europe and. hence. k first hand of the apprehensions that exist there that the distinguished senator alludes to. the current "attack" by speculators on the dollar is one manifestation of such apprehensions. fear exists in europe that the present domestic problems faced by the united states will limit our ability to maintain an adequate commitment to the atlantic alliance. an alliance. as i pointed out to an audience in mannheim. germany. can only remain viable so long as its members have a high degree of confidence in each others willingness and ability to fulfill mutually agreed upon obligations. thus. expression of doubt in europe as to americas ability to execute its responsibilities in the alliance are certainly of grave concern to us all. however. these doubts are based. i believe. on the erroneous premise that individuals rather than institutions are more important in providing continuity for american policies. foreign or domestic. the reverse. however. is a more accurate view of our system of government. it is our institutional governmental structure that provides the unique strength of our system of policy formation and execution. it is that structure that has weathered the test of crises in the past and has provided the united states the capability to draw strength from adversity in times of both foreign and domestic troubles. one should  minimize the fact that recent developments have created short term impediments to the effective functioning of our governmental processes. individuals. possessing misconceptions as to the lawful and acceptable scope of their exercise of power. have betrayed the public trust. however. the debilitating effects of their betrayal will be shortlived. our institutional structures can and will absorb the current shock waves without experiencing irreparable or longterm damage. the recuperative capacity of our system of government provides sufficient grounds for the optimistic belief that america can and will continue to play a full and active role in the worlds work. i reject the arguments of the harbingers of doom. both at home and abroad. the problems facing the united states may be difficult but they are  insoluble. what is needed is the courage and wisdom to confront these problems forthrightly in order to obtain real rather than cosmetic solutions. through judicious actions. such as those suggested by senator javits. we can mitigate the negative effects of the socalled energy crisis. the american people possess the wisdom to realize that some change in their energy consumption habits must occur. i believe they are willing to make the necessary sacrifices in this area. i also believe that their government will take the necessary actions in the international sphere to enable it and other oilconsuming countries to bargain on a more equitable basis with the opec consortia of oilproducing countries. the inflationary spiral  extant in the united states can be controlled if the administration is willing to impose more adequate wage and price controls. i sincerely hope that recent reports of administration intent to reexamine its inadequate inflation policies will result in a courageous and fair application of such controls as well as the formulation of some adequate means to restrict profits to a fair return on investment. finally. through prudent intervention in the international monetary system. the united states can "give the lie" to the "dollar speculators" assumption that we lack the will or ability to negate their designs. the senator from new york has offered a plan to accomplish this. his suggestions should be given careful consideration as we seek to find acceptable solutions to the recurring monetary crisis. in sum. the crises that face america today provide us with the opportunity to once again exhibit the inherent strength and resourcefulness of the american people and their governmental system. i am convinced that both are equal to this task.
 of the american petroleum institute. who represents his industry with vigor and candor. frank ikard is a distinguished lawyer. former judge. and texas congressman. he is a good man and one whom i have come to k and. admire. i am pleased and proud to call him a friend. i wish to bring to my colleagues attention an article on frank ikard written by william gildea which appeared in the washington post. sunday. march 24. it is a fair and broad analysis of frank ikard. the man. and frank ikard. the spokesman for the petroleum industry. at a time when negatives abound about the energy crisis it is refreshing to have william gildeas positive portrait of frank ikard. i ask unanimous consent that the post article be printed in the record.
. rhetoric is a politicians stockintrade. but amount of rhetoric can bring home the need for tough. mandatory energy conservation steps. our energy. ecoic and environmental policies cry out for them. but these cries fall on deaf ears. the congress. paralyzed by opinion polls. steadfastly refuses to act. and the nation lies adriftmotionless. aimless. purposeless. . the challenge is clearly ours. we must rise to meet it. we must. lead. inform. inspire. the legislation i introduce today is offered in this spirit. it will jar. it will jolt. it will inconvenience. it will  be popular. hing will that further burdens an already heavily burdened citizenry. but if others have a better approach. let them come forth. let them put their proposals before the people and let us debate them on their merits. this is our responsibility. we must insure that our citizenry understands fully the seriousness of our energy crisis and what can be done about it. only then can they make the informed decisions that are so desperately needed. by mr. stevenson:
 has stepped forward with his proposal for energy action. yet i have serious doubts as to its adequacy and its impact upon inflation. the legislation i propose today is offered as an alternative. it will jar. it will jolt. it will inconvenience. it will  be popular. hing will that burdens an already burdened citizenry. but we simply can afford to wait any longer. we must act. and this legislation offers what i believe to be the most propitious action we can take by mr. mathias:
 fords effort to develop a national energy policy. he has proposed legislation to alleviate some of the shortrange problems of supplying electric power. however. the evolution of systematic policies regarding electricity is a responsibility the legislative branch must share with the executive. toward this end. i am introducing. with senators hugh scott of pennsylvania and weicker. the electric utility rate reform act of 1975. this proposal is a result of taking a long hard look at the causes of the high prices for electricity and the options for providing legislative remedy. let me say quite frankly at the outset that this is panacea. if i knew a quick. easy way to solve the problem of electric costs. i would be proposing it. but i do .  i believe. does anyone else. the problem lies with the three major factors underlying rate increases. simply put. these are: plant operating cost fuel costs. which we all k have soared. and fixed costs. fixed costs represent a major part of the problem. they include the cost of capital which has been rising as old5 percent and up. utilities will have $20 billion of capital construction expenditures this year and will need to borrow egh to cover at least $100 billion more in building programs by 1980. fixed costs also include materials and skilled labor whose prices are still inflating at doubledigit rates. but it is important to realize that utilities are committed to the present pattern of fixed costs because they have priced their service according to obsolete principles. one has to understand how rate structures appropriate to highgrowth periods of the 1950s and early 1960s have created a wasteful demand for more and more expensive capital growth. when todays rate systems were established. it was in an environment of bargain capital and lowcost energy. the addition of plant capacity at the margin to accommodate extra usage had real ecoies of scale. as a result. rate structures with "declining block" pricing were established. under this system. the price of electricity goes down. in steps. the more electricity a customer consumes. this provides an incentive to consume rather than conserve. and customers trying to use less power are penalized by having to pay a higher rate per kilowatt hour. to add to the impact of such rate structures. utilities are permitted. under current regulatory policy. to use promotional rate designs for special markets. like hot water heating and "allelectric residential." regulators have  dealt with the fact that if a utility generates its electricity by burning oil. it will consume two to three times more oil to heat the house electrically than if that oil were used to heat the house directly. this is particularly important to us new englanders because we depend so heavily on oil to heat our homes and need to assure an adequate. long term supply. to summarize. rate designs have rewarded use of power.  conservation of our energy resources and. as a consequence. they have encouraged the construction of heavy capital facilities which are  imposing so high a cost on every american family. electric generating capacity must be built to accommodate the most intensive possible peakperiod demand and then provide a substantial margin of "spare" capacity for safety. in the united states today. the average utilization of generating capacity is 49 percent. what this means to you and me is that half the figure charged to us for plant costs goes for a generator that is just sitting there idle in case someone wants some extra power. our regulated utilities pricing system has failed to perform the important role price usually plays in the marketplace. it is  signalling to the buyer of energy what costs his or her incremental use of electricity are imposing on the system. even though a customer carelessly using a lot of power during peakload periods is both forcing the generating station to use its least efficient combustion turbines to meet the spurt of demand and forcing the leaders of the utilities to plan for expensive new plants. extra charge is billed against him. the result of this is that in the last 10 years. demand for peakperiod power has grown much faster than the overall demand for power. this is compounding the problem of costly growth. our proposed legislation sets a simple standard for all rate structures: users will pay for the true cost of service they consume. by charging users the actual. incurred costs of customer services. operating capacity. fuel and additional capacity. rate structures can build in incentives for general conservation and for shifting use to offpeak hours. the fea has estimated that as much as $120 billion in capacity that would otherwise be built and charged on fuel bills can be made unnecessary by peakload pricing structures. seen aher way. this represents a potential saving of 500.000 barrels of oil a day. certainly there is a need for expansion of our energy resources. and we will have to build many new plants for the last quarter of this century. but what we do  need is a system of energy pricing which forces us to squander our valuable resources. the legislation i introduce has other provisions that can help reduce costs as well. for example. utilities can recover the cost of advertising which encourages further wasteful use of energy. also. public utility commissions must act on utility rate requests within a 10month period. thus affording our private utilities some measure of predictability in their planning. finally. it seeks to regularize procedures for the fuel adjustment charges which so burden all consumers of power. in 1974 the rate increase due to fuel charges was $6.5 billion in this nation. that is over four times as great as the previous years increase attributable to fuel costs. in spite of several well publicized incidents involving outright fraud in utility fuel transactions. most states require little or disclosure of fuel bills from their utilities. in order to provide some mechanism to check on potential fraud or mismanagement. this legislation requires utilities to give ice of changes in their fuel charges and present full documentation. with respect to their fuelbuying. at public hearings. e of these reforms is an ultimate solution to the problems of electric costs. energy costs of all kinds are going to remain high. several other strategies could be combined with cost of service pricing. among the proposals are direct subsidies from taxes. tax relief for private utilities and public ownership of powerplants. but i do  think any of these is as useful or workable a first step toward ultimate reform as the establishment of a rational pricing scheme. in the long run. i firmly believe we must make a radical reexamination of our system for regulating the price structures of certain industries in this country. i suspect that the methods devised in earlier years for the computation of equitable returns on investment for a variety of basic services are  penalizing both consumers and producers and are creating improper allocations of vital national resources. but we can wait for the study and litigation such fundamental reform entails. we must move quickly to change our rate structures so customers and utilities can afford to pay for meeting our longrange national needs for electricity.
. a few moments ago on this floor there took place a colloquy on the uses of $19 million provided by our committee for emergency energy conservation services. the purport of the discussion apparently was to establish the "flexibility" of the funds in relation to the purposes in the community services administration act. i regret that i was  present on the floor at the time of this colloquy. for if i had been i would promptly have cited the language of our committee report which earmarks funds for a specific purpose. let me quote from the committee report: the committee has included $19 million for emergency energy conservation services. an increase of $10 million over the house allowance. the budget request did  contain any funds to begin implementation of this program. the senate had originally included $10 million for the energy program in the 1975 emergency employment appropriations act supplemental. which was dropped in conference with the understanding that the funding would be considered in this bill. the emergency energy conservation services program is designed to aid lowincome families reduce their energy consumption and lessen the impact of the ever increasing cost of energy. the committee believes this program will provide an important step forward in attempts to conserve energy resources. in addition to winterization. the funds provided in this bill will be used for shortterm assistance. including loans and grants to eligible individuals. to help them avoid utility cutoffs in instances where they temporarily can pay utility bills. thus. it should be clear that the $10 million added on to the house allowance of $9 million was to establish the program to help the poor pay their utility bills and avoid the shutoff of service. this is the intent of our committee.
. as members of the senate are well aware. the practice of allowing electric utilities to pass through fuel charge increases. either with public hearings or automatically. has engendered public outrage as fuel prices have risen dramatically. it also seems to have given several oil companies and a few private utilities opportunities to perpetrate expensive frauds on their customers as already discovered in west virginia. maryland. and virginia. however. criminal activity does  seem to be the chief threat to the consumer. rather. the more general and widespread problem is poor management of fuel purchasing by utilities. this practice of passing through fuel charges eliminates any incentive to search or bargain for a competitively priced fuel. when energy costs were covered as a part of the regulated rate structure. utilities were of necessity prudent in their purchasing. the magnitude of the problem can be seen in the 1974 figures for fuel costs. while the cost of fuel charges to consumers rose over 250 percent from january to october 1974. the actual price of fossil fuels delivered to steamelectric plants nationally rose only 31 percent. part of this is explained by changes in regulatory procedure. but the difference remains staggering. there is simple way to structure incentives for private companies. the legislation i am submitting will amend the 1974 act that establishes the fea by specifically authorizing the administrator to regulate utility fuel charging practices in order to assure that the companies are taking advantage of all possible fuel cost savings consonant with environmental regulations affecting fuel use. among other things. the fea could set standards. publish comparative prices. inspect company records and hold hearings. this authority gives fea a way to publicize and bring pressure on careless firms which may be iging consumer interests. it also provides an early warning of cases of suspected fraud which fall under the jurisdiction of the feas enforcement division. we must  forget that many utilities are genuinely trying to keep fuel costs down and have themselves been the victims of oil company pricing practices as well as of the general inflation. nevertheless. so long as we adopt a laissezfaire regulatory policy like the passthrough fuel charge system. the burden of demonstrating sound management falls on the utilities. the public deserves to k it is being abused through careless industry spending. i believe this amendment to the existing law is an important first step to establishing standards for rate structures which permit a fair return to utilities in periods of energy price inflation. but which are fundamentally designed to protect the consumer. by mr. abourezk:
. i would like to share my concern. and my proposals for an effective response to our energy crisis with my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of my remarks in boston be printed in the recoad.
 has stepped forward with his proposal for energy action. yet i have serious doubts as to its adequacy and its impact upon inflation. the legislation i propose todsy is offered as an alternative. it will jar. it will jolt. it will inconvenience. it will  be popular. hing will that burdens an already burdened citizenry. but we simply can afford to wait any longer. we must act. and this legislation offers what i believe to be the most propitious action we can take.
s veto and then to turn at- once to the business of formulating a tough. fair national energy policy. we can allow this to take as long as 6 months. in fact. we need  even take 6 weeks. all of us k the issues and the options. it is time the congress did the job we were elected to do. and i have doubt that administration officials will deal openly and. seriously with any reasonable suggestions we put forward. i. myself. have long supported a particular set of policies which i would like to put forward once more for consideration. first. we need an energy pricing policy which sets a ceiling price on domestic oil and new natural gas on a btu equivalency basis. we must encourage oil and gas exploration. but we must protect ourselves from the pricing decisions of the opec cartel by establishing a fair maximum price legislation to accomplish this end has been drafted by senator stevensox of illis as an amendment to s. 692. i am cosponsoring his bill. and i urge my colleagues to act promptly on this alternative energy pricing program when it comes before the senate in the near future. second. we need a tough energy conservation policy to further reduce our deptendence on both fuel imports and precious domestic resources. the senate has already passed responsible legislation in the fields of automobile efficiency standards and strategic energy reserves. i trust stringent standards for energy conservation in buildings will soon become law. the senate finance committee is currently working on tax incentives for conservation. i hope these will be limited and specific. as we need to direct our scarce resources without adding further loopholes to our already inconsistent and sometimes irrational tax system. since last winter. i have been urging the congress to go beyond these measures and to enact a conservation tax on gasoline. which we so often use profligately. an excise tax on gas guzzling cars and a series of gradually increasing tariffs to encourage domestic production and refining. these proposals are embodied in a package of legislation i presented to the senate together with senators percy and mathias on july 15. finally. we must develop all our domestic resources intelligently. we must plan for controlled exploration of fossil fuels so that the environment of today is protected and the natural legacy of the future is assured. we must harness the combined genius of science and management so that alternative sources of energy are fully understood and made available to the public. these choices call for considered regulation and extensive financing. i am convinced that the congress can assume responsibility for making these decisions . the nation has listened long egh to this important public debate. the time to choose is upon us.
. the senate appropriations committee does  at this time disapprove deferral of more than $18.5 million in budget authority: our recommendations do  include a number of proposed education deferrals made moot by congress enactment of the fiscal year 1976 education appropriations bill. we recommend. however. disapproval of one request in the amount of $16.5 million for emergency energy conservation services. this deferral was requested pending enactment of new legislation which would transfer the current winterization program from the community services administration to the federal energy administration. while the house has acted on this measure. the senate has  even held hearings. it is obvious. therefore. that even if we were to accept the administrations proposal to effect the transfer to the federal energy administration. it could  be implemented in time to meet this winters needs. according to figures available to our committee. it is estimated that over onethird of the existing 47 million homes in this country are inadequately insulated. almost onehalf of these are occupied by families below the poverty line. the figures also indicate that if we continue this winterization program for 3 years we will save the equivalent of 35.000 barrels of petroleum per day and lowincome households will save a total of $200 million each year in reduced fuel bills. in addition to providing winterization materials to more adequately insulate homes of lowincome families. the community services administration will also use some of the money on a shortterm emergency basis to prevent utility shutoffs for lowincome persons who fall behind in paying their utility bills. the emergency energy conservation program will show a concrete payback by reducing our consumption of home heating products. there is absolutely reason to impede its implementation. i urge my colleagues to support the resolution before us disapproving the requested deferral of $16.5 million.
. this morning i testified before the senate select committee on small business regarding the important role the new england region can and should play in the development of solar energy techogy to help the nation resolve its energy crisis. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of my remarks be printed in the record.
 of the united states and his federal energy administrator strongly urging that we adopt this legislation and that we resist any amendments to the legislation as reported by the senate banking committee. with all due respect to my colleague from texas. whom i k wants to see a strong energy policy. who. in all good faith. i am sure. because he is a man of great integrity. believes that it can be done on a voluntary basis. i most respectfully must disagree with him. it has  been done on a voluntary basis and i do  believe it will be done on a voluntary basis. though e of us really like to mandate. the fact is that if we do want to conserve energy we have recourse but to keep these sanctions in. therefore. i hope that we will be able to defeat this amendment which is  only crippling but gutting. if . we will have legislation at all.
. i am indeed grateful to my colleague from new york for his support of this amendment and for his contribution to this colloquy. i can agree with him more. that with the energy crisis still existing in this country. there is still a great need for us to get on with a sound energy program and with some practical energy legislation.
. this amendment will provide a $200 million u.s. contribution to the international fund for agricultural development commonly kn as ifad. in addition to myself it is sponsored by senator humphrey. senator mcgee. senator percy. senator sparkman. senator gravel. senator clark. senator baker. senator durkin. senator kennedy. senator hatfield. and senator javits. the concept of ifad first surfaced at the world food conference in ember 1974. at rome there was widespread recognition of the need to involve the newly rich oil producing states in efforts to increase rapidly the worlds food producing capacity. while various alternatives were suggested. the conference finally agreed on a proposal by the opec nations themselves that a new multilateral mechanism should be established through which a significant amount of their newly acquired wealth could be channeled to lessdeveloped countries to help the latter increase food production and enhance their peoples nutritional levels. thus. the ifad concept was born. since 1974. serious efforts have been under way to make ifad a viable initiative. we have  reached a point in time where a tangible expression of u.s. support for the concept. in the form of a contribution limited to 20 percent of total do contributions. is both needed and justified. the conditions for u.s. participation in ifad. are unique in that they require prior commitments by other dos before obligation of u.s. funds. first. the u.s. contribution of $200 million is predicated on other dos. particularly the opec states. contributing at least $800 million for a minimum total contribution of $1 billion. if u.s. contributions fall short of the $800 million figure. the u.s. contribution will be reduced accordingly. second. the agreement formally establishing ifad can be signed only when total pledges reach $1 billion. as an added protection for the united states. the agreement will  enter into force until it is ratified by states who have made total initial contributions of $750 million. the authorizing legislationpublic law 94161--establishes additional safeguards by stating that funds may be obligated for ifad unless the following conditions have been met: first. a satisfactory agreement is reached on the articles of agreement for the international fund for agricultural development. second. the articles of agreement are reviewed and approved by the senate committee on foreign relations and the house committee on international relations. third. all do commitments to the international fund for agricultural development total at least $1.000.000.000 equivalent in convertible currencies. except that the u.s. contribution shall be proportionally reduced if this combined goal is  met. fourth. there is equitable burden sharing among the different categories of participants. that is. developed states. opec members. and developing countries. ifad is unique in aher important way. its establishment does  mean the erection of aher fullblown bureaucracy. the funds provided through ifad will be channeled through existing international financial institutions for specific projects agreed upon by the three categories of ifad participants.
. to my disappointment today the senate passed an appropriation of $2.5 million for continuing studies and design work on the st. johns river dam project which we in new england k as the dickeylincoln dam. both last year and this year i have tried unsuccessfully to persuade my colleagues in the appropriations committee that this project will  deliver all the energy we are promised by its advocates. only a tiny fraction of new englanders will have a chance to use the expensive power that will come from this mammoth edifice. and these benefits will only be available for a few hours a day. such vast expenditures will only be available for a few hours a day. such vast expenditures for new englands energy future would be far better invested in alternative energy sources. unfortunately. few are willing to put an end to any expenditure which is labeled an "environmental study." in this case. we will have spent $5 million in 2 years. and begun the engineering work for the dam. furthermore. when i opposed an identical expenditure last year. colleagues in both the house and senate appropriations committees were of the opinion that last years money would be the last large expenditure. yet here w have an identical sum proposed for thi lt years budget. e it is my belief that if the analyst 1l produce an honest. critical study of th i. project. it will be clear that the hug it costs do  justify the benefits in s volved. and when those results are avail s able. i look forward to addressing thos. basic issues. i ask unanimous consen - that two articles. "dickeylincoln: larg i dams. larger promises. and even largea debts." by stephen whitney and pau - swatek. and "a reporter at large: thi e keel of lake dickey." by john mcphee 3 be reprinted in the record following m e remarks.
similar legislation has actually been passed and implemented in two states: oregon and vermont. and the results are impressive. in just 2 years. oregon found its beverage container litter decreased by 83 percent. while popular approval for the new law has reached an astonishing 91 percent in public opinion polls. most americans agree with the consensus in oregon. indeed. a recent poll by the federal energy administration revealed that 73 percent of those polled favored a law requiring that all soft drinks and beer be sold in returnable bottles and cans. i think these americans are right. if you add up all the benefitsthe ecoic gains. the energy savings. the reduction in solid waste disposal. and he eradication of the blight of bottle and can litteri think there can be little doubt that passage of the beverage container reuse and recycling act of 1976 should be an urgent priority for the congress. the exhibits follow: [exsrsbt 1] [from new england ecoic indicators. federal reserve bank of boston. march 19761
. i hope that when future students of our history read that the debate over amending the clean air act of 1970 began in washington during a summer in which the air quality index was "hazardous" more often than . they will find it mystifying. sad. and unfamiliar. if we can accelerate the impressive progress the nation has made toward cleaning our atmosphere. perhaps they will. but. if we allow the remaining areas where the air is relatively pristine to deteriorate to the mediocre quality of present secondary standards. those generations may well look back on the decisions we make today with anger and regret. i have deliberated long and hard over the method of preventing significant deterioration proposed by the committee. while i am convinced the goal is a proper one. i have definitely been concerned about the questions that have been raised about the ecoic and social implications of this kind of regulatory mechanism. in the end. i am voting against the 1year delay because i do  think it will help us solve the fundamental problems this approach does present. on the other hand. i think these problems are less serious than the continuing deterioration of cleaner air. i believe they are capable of review and solution by the national air quality commission which will learn from their implementation and propose whatever changes will be necessary to the congress. as i debated with myself over this issue. i viewed the arguments as falling into two categories. first. there were the ecoic arguments that growth in industry and employment would be cut back. i believe we already have egh data to rebut that. of course. pollution control is never entirely cost free. but i think the costs of a degradation policy will be moderate and acceptable in light of the importance of the goal. more important to me was the governmental or social argument that we are setting up a regulatory system that is overburdensome and which. even worse. may have unintended side effects like distortion of optimal urban growth patterns or misdirection of state planning resources. i admit that these questions have particular merit in this instance and that i do  think the bill answers them all. on the other hand. i see hing in the moss amendment which will provide answers to these questions in a year. furthermore. i have considered alternative methods in my own mind. such as changing the secondary standards and relying on new. tougher minimums. but these. too. have their flaws and all would take a long time to enact and implement while clean air areas deteriorate. on the other hand. the congress will certainly be receptive to recommendations by the new national commission on air quality once it has reviewed these new provisions in action. finally. if we delay. we are stuck with the epa regulations recently promulgated. and i am convinced that federal regulation is a good deal worse in most instances than state regulation. since feelings on this matter are so strong on both sides. i would like to review both kinds of arguments. for example the ecoic arguments raised in opposition have been several. such as: first. the class ii "intrusion factors" and class i locations will make it impossible to build the very large coalfired powerplants that will be needed in the next 10 to 15 years. response: this is  true. recently. fea and epa randomly selected and analyzed 74 projected coalfired powerplants. including some as large as 3.000 megawatts. the feaepa report concluded that e of the planned capacity of the 74 powerplants would be affected by the mandatory or mandatory and discretionary class i areas. the same analysis concluded that all of the planned new powerplants could be built and still meet the house class ii or class i increments. this is particularly eworthy because these 74 plants were planned without any consideration of conforming with the prevention of significant deterioration policy. second. even if a single new large coalfired powerplant could be built in an area. the policy would prohibit large coalfired powerplants from being constructed in areas in which existing plants are located. response: this is  true either. the amount of new pollution increases allowable in any class ii area is the samewith a single exceptionregardless of whether that area has existing powerplants on date of enactment. this is because the allowable pollution increment is the amount of pollution increase allowed in addition to existing-"baseline"-levels. in fact. greater growth may be achieved in areas with high industrial concentrations. since any pollution reduction from existing sources would leave additional room inside the baseline for new sources to come in without using any of the increment. third. even if new isolated powerplants could be built and expansions or additions to existing plants could be built. large new energy parks could  be built under the psd provision. response: this also is  true. assuming the new powerplants use best control techogy which has been adequately demonstrated. taking into account cost. and assuming fairly fiat terrain. up to 8.000 megawatts of new power generating capacity could be built without exceeding class ii increments. by contrast. potomac electric powers entire washington. d.c. service areas historic peak power use was only 3623 megawatts. fourth. if other industry anted to locate in the area of the energy park. this could  be allowed even in a class iii area. response: this is  true. under the house bill. which is. i think. the better in this case. with fairly fiat terrain. a class iii area could add up to 16.000 megawatts of new capacity or could permit "colocation" of industrial sources and powerplants. this information is also contained in the epas study. the largest coalfired powerplant in the united states is approximately onefifth the above capacity. fifth. the feaepa analysis which concludes that very large coalfired powerplants could be built in hilly terrain is based in part on assumptions that tall stacks can be used. but the house bill prohibits tall stacks or stack increases. response: this is  true. the house bill allows credit for stack heights up to 21/2 times the basic height of the structure. this means that the average new coalfired powerplant could have stacks as tall as 500 feet. sixth. these studies all assume that new growth will be the only occasion for using up the increments.  all this room for growth will be allowed. because as existing sources return to full capacity operation after overcoming the recession. they will use up much of the available increment. response: this is untrue. again the house bill. unlike the senate bill. defines the "baseline"-to which new pollution increases may be addedon the basis of total "design capacity" of existing sources.  actual emissions. i support the house version. seventh. but existing sources which are  burning oil or natural gas and which must convert to coal because of esecafea orders or natural gas curtailments will eat up some of the available increment. response: this is  necessarily true. it is within the discretion of the gover of the state  to count these pollution increases from existing sources against the increment. this exclusion authority would last for a long egh time until the existing source could acquire necessary equipment or low sulfur fuels to abate the increase. eighth. dust stirred up by construction equipment could cause the particulate increments to be exceeded. therefore. this is a "growth" bill. response: again. the house bill expressly gives the gover of the state authority to permanently exclude from consideration any pollution from construction or other temporary activities. this important provision should be included in the act. ninth. the available room for growth of new sources may  be so great because of natural background particulates. response: first. in those areas where natural particulate levels are so great as to cause the national ambient air quality standards to be exceeded in any area. then the significant deterioration provisions for particulates would  apply to that area. second. natural background levels of pollution would be counted in the "baseline" under the house bill. thus. allowable increments would be in addition to the baseline. third. if the full increments could  be used because background particulates approach the level of the ambient standards. the gover could exclude these background particulates from consideration. again. i believe these are the provisions we should adopt. tenth. even if large powerplants could be built in an area. they would have to be spaced 40 to 100 miles apart. because of the intrusion effects referred to under first. above. response: according to epa studies of the house bill. a new 1.500megawatt powerplant "a" using best techogy could be located within 1 mile of aher powerplant "b" without exceeding class 11 increments. even if powerplant "b" consumed 90 percent of the class ii increment in its area. under current regulations. in fact. the distarce would be 28 miles. eleventh. best techogy and prevention of significant deterioration requirements will be extremely costly and the cost figures quoted by epa are much too low. response: analysis by a contractor for the electric utility industrynational ecoic research associates. neraand by epa come to similar conclusions on the cost impact of these provisions. that is. the provisions of s. 3219 will have only a small cost impact. for example. by 1990. epa estimates the bill will require an increase in total utility industry capital investment of 2.3 to 2.7 percent. the industrynera estimate is 1.4 to 2.2 percent. epa estimates that because of these provisions the average residential electric bill will increase by only 1.9 to 2.3 percent by 1990. the industrynera estimate is 2.5 to 3.8 percent by 1990. twelfth. the best techogy requirement for new powerplants will slow western low sulfur coal development and adversely affect railroads which would carry the coal. response. in fact. under the bill demand for low sulfur coal will be greater than under present epa regulations. this has been recognized by the electric utility industry consultants in the nera study which concluded that under the house bill. by 1990. demand for western low sulfur coal will be 30 to 35 percent higher than if the bill were  enacted.
. i have three energy amendments. which i understand may be accepted: i have agreed to a time limitation on it. that is in title xx. one is in section 1 of the title. and the other is in section 2 of the title. my question is. could we take those three up on top of each other at any time after the taft amendment today.
. i ask unanimous consent that a table displaying the projected energy savings from this insulation activity be included in the record. i hope the distinguished members of the finance committee will be able to accept this modification to their excellent bill. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing energy savings resulting from amendment  2137 be printed in the record.
. section 2002 was originally proposed by the distinguished ranking miity member of the finance committee. mr. curtis. the senators provision. adopted by the senate committee on finance. would provide a refundable income tax credit for the purchase and installation of heat pumps in. or on an existing residence. the amount of the credit is 20 percent of the first $1.000 of qualified expenditures. plus 121/2 percent of the next $6.400 for a maximum of $1.000. the senator from nebraska is to be applauded for the initiative that he has shown in seeking to encourage the adoption of energy conservation measures. there is question that all of our constituents should be given accurate information and every incentive to improve the operating efficiency of their existing heating systems. the projected savings from an effective energy conservation program would make the difference as to whether or  our nation needs to be dependent on foreign governments for energy. a double benefit derives from the dollar savings that homeowners can enjoy from a reduction in the amount of fuel consumed. there appears to be dispute that a heat pump is more efficient than electric resistance space heating. however. when compared with an oil or gasfired heating system. that is  always the case. in the summary of conclusions section of "seasonal fuel utilization efficiency of residential heating systems." published april 1975 by the oak ridge national laboratory and jointly supported by fea and the national science foundation. it was reported that: the efficiency of a "best" heat pump possibly can exceed that of a "best" furnace in a warm climate. whereas the reverse would be true in a cold climate ... in the final report. "evaluation of the airtoair heat pump for residential space conditioning." submitted on contract to fea by gordian associates. inc.. april 23. 1976. it was recommended that: for cold climates. or where simultaneous requirement for cooling exists. the use of fuel oil or natural gas for space heating new homes should  be abandoned. unfortunately. the tax credit provision as it emerged from the finance committee would provide an incentive for conversions from . only electric resistance space heating systems. but from oil and gasfired systems as well. the effect of the provision. as it is presently drawn. would be to provide a federal incentive for conversions from what would be more efficient systems to less efficient heating systems. it was because of this that i recently filed an amendment that would limit the availability of the tax credit for heat pumps to existing electric resistance space heating systems. with this limiting amendment. there would be federal incentives for homeowners to convert from oil and gasfired systems to heat pumps. i have discussed this amendment with
. this is only the beginning of a long process to end the waste of energy in our country. we need to continue the search for new hardware. for waste energy recovery techogies. for more energy efficient commercial and industrial processes. and we need to change major social habits like the use of gas guzzling automobiles. my own pro posal was to put a refundable tax on gasoline. the fuel we waste most profligately. the steps we took this winter to increase the fuel efficiency of new cars were vital steps. but i would have preferred stricter sanctions against auto manufacturers who did  comply. finally. as i keep saying because i believe it so deeply. we must restructure our electric utility rates to encourage conservation and simultaneously cut electricity costs. however. we are at last launched on a serious and potentially effective conservation effort. it will take time to achieve the potential 50 percent energy savings that are possible. but i am vastly encouraged that we are truly going to tap our nations most neglected yet most obvious source of new energythe energy we have historically wasted.
. i would just like to summarize briefly my views on what the major issues are and what we in the congress must confront squarely before we can be satisfied that we have reduced the social risks associated with nuclear energy. i must say at the outset that i am  prepared to support a moratorium on the use of nuclear power. if we had any energy supply which offered us a better alternative. i would certainly advocate a switch. but we must face the cold hard facts. we have easy choices. if the nation were to implement seriously effective energy conservation programs. we could certainly dampen the rapid growth of demand for energy. if the r. & d. money which is buying our techogical advances in solar and geothermal energy use turns out to be wellspent. then in a few decades we will have a wider range of choice and can. with a sigh of relief. forget some of the safety problems we are concerned with today. but right . we are running out of petroleum and natural gas. and we have useful replacement fuels except coal. and using coal is as laden with risks as using nuclear energy.  only are sulfuric air pollutants obviously and generally dangerous to human health. but sulphuric acid mist is  kn to be even more destructive to animal and vegetable tissues than we have imagined. traces of radioactivity are also found in coal emissions. stored coal is a danger. it can readily ignite. the solid wastes and mill tailings present a disposal problem similar to that associated with the mining of uranium. hundreds of men die each year in our deep mines. thousands are disabled and live unnaturally shortened lives because of the dread black lung. coal strip mining has devastated unimaginably vast portions of the american west. we are far fromhaving safe and efficient coal mining and combustion techogies. all this leads me to conclude. however reluctantly. that we must continue to utilize our existing reactors and to prepare as best we can for the possibility that we will be using the atom as an energy source for some time. so long as we invest as much as we can in the development of alternatives. this is sensibie. prudent policy. but the congress has. i feel. been too reluctant to enter deeply into the safety question. while we have demanded some muchneeded study and investigation. we have  looked at the analyses with sufficient care. we have  been sufficiently tough in overseeing the regulatory and research agencies. and we have  instilled in the nuclear community the sense of urgency about the safety issues which so many citizens feel.
. we can change our old habits of wasting fuel and we can increase our utilization of renewable resources at once. any amount of energy saved gives far greater benefits than the equivalent developed or discovered and exploited amount of new energy. these incentives and regulations are the tools governments and the private sector need to make conservation the predominant source of the "new" energy we so need. i ask unanimous consent that a sectionbysection analysis of the bill be printed in the record.
. i feel very strongly that this bill is needed if todays first time homebuyers are to have the same chance that we had to buy a home. i intend to devote as much time and energy as is necessary to assure the passage of this bill. and i hope that my colleagues. including the 17 cosponsors. will work with me to reopen the opportunity for homeownership to our young families. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i am especially delighted to take part in introducing this package of solar energy legislation to the congress because it represents  only a major effort to ackledge the potential benefits of using renewable energy resources but also a major step forward for the governments role in solar energy. up until  government efforts have been largely confined to the development of big hardware for use in the distant future or the study of questions about how solar energy can" be collected. stored. and transmitted. there is question that such work is essential. but we can do a lot more in the solar field a lot sooner. certain kinds of solar energy techogies are ready right  to be applied directly to a wide variety of uses. for several years. i have been urging the congress to pass tax credits to promote the use of solar energy in homes and businesses. i have filed s. 97 for just this purpose. the solar energy package contains a rather similar tax credit measure together with other provisions. it would encourage farms. schools. public buildings. large and small businesses. profit groups. and residential buildings of every description to back up their conventional energy systems with solar energy and techogy. the importance of this mornings bipartisan effort in both houses of congress backed by consumer groups is that it shows there is  a large coalition. in and out of government. that recognizes that we k egh about solar energy to give it a try. the techogy to get going is with us. it is high time we began learning the answers to the question of whether the ecoics of solar are on our side as well. of course. we must  abandon our wider effort to develop sophisticated. largescale solar energy techogies. we should continue at a high level of funding the erda program to experiment with many ways of using solar energy. in the distant future. we may be able to replace our rapidly depleting mineral resources and our environmentally and ecoically questionable nuclear resources with the renewable. virtually infinite. promise of the suns power. it is certainly true that. compared to the kinds of solar energy techogies that we may have someday and that the energy research and development administration is working on even today. the hardware we have at our disposal resembles more a crystal set than an fm stereo radio. but the tools we have are useful ones. they can help us out of our energy shortage . for the day when we can begin to harness the power of the sun is truly here. i hope that the congress and the administration will ackledge this promptly and give us the laws we need to go forward.
. i am today introducing the spill prevention and cleanup for energy transportation systems act of 1977. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record. there being obection. the bill was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows. s. 898 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the "spill prevention and cleanup for energy transportation systems act of 1977".
. on march 3. 1977. i introduced s. 898. the spill prevention and cleanup for energy transportation systems act of 1977. i ask unanimous consent to have a sectionbysection analysis of the bill printed in the record.
the chairman ks i have great respect for him and i k the difficult time he has as chairman of the finance committee to keep us fiscally responsible and get revenues. if we pass this amendment. when we get to the presidents energy proposals we are in trouble because. as he says. the sweeteners are taken out of it. everybody is going to be for the insulation tax part. there is question about that. everybody wants that because there is a tax credit for residences and tax credit for small businesses. but few are going to want to vote for the gasoline tax. that is very unpopular. as the senator very well ks. even though it is only 5 cents graduated to 50 cents. i proposed it once and the senator should have seen the mail i got from around the country. gasoline was $2.65 in other countries around the world. but ody here was yet ready to make that sacrifice and add to that gasoline tax. so we can see that going down the drain. i can go on with other parts of the presidents proposal. even bringing natural gas prices to equivalency with oil btu for btu. we are going to see regional considerations enter in. it will be very difficult for the presidents energy proposal matter what. i think he deserves credit for bringing it to the country and dramatizing the energy crisis. for trying to get a strong national energy policy through this congress. but if we take out the sweetener. the one thing he has in there that clearly will be popular. and may allow some tradeoffs. i think he is doomed before he begins. he is the senators partys president. i do  think the senator wants to scuttle his program. but if we pass this amendment i think it will be a very difficult day for him when he brings the rest of that proposal up on monday.
. the encouragement of small scale. decentralized. laborintensive techogies must continue to provide an alternative to an energy ecoy based solely on megasystems locked into giant techogies and structured into large central production units. for a few smaller investments. we may be able to keep our options open so that. in the long run. we have a heterogeneous. flexible. and efficient energy system fhich makes the best possible use of a wide variety of energy resources and of human resources. i hope the committee can see fit to adopt the house figure of $10 million.
. i am a cosponsor of this amendment. because i believe it offers substantial improvements for the operation of the coastal impact program. some have asked me why i have any interest at all since massachusetts will  benefit from these funds until we have an ocs lease sale and it is unkn how much we will be entitled to thereafter. my reasons are simple. i believe our friends on the gulf coast have long supplied the nation with offshore oil and gas at substantial ecoic and environmental cost to those areas and i believe they must benefit fully from the funds designed to mitigate the costs of ocs onshore impacts. this is regional issue. this is sound national policy for everyone. however. i would like to clarify some questions that have arisen about environmental impacts of the new provisions allowing the secretary to designate broad areas of presumed impact. does the senator from louisiana have any document from the office of canal zone management indicating how this will be implemented.
i thank the distinguished senator from louisiana. i would like to e. . that i do  believe that the basic czm act goes far egh toward protecting the coastal zone from harmful growth. i do expect to continue to support the tougher position which the senate took when we last amended this statute. and i will try to get the basic provisions tightened. but you have been most persuasive that the language before us in way alters the existing provisions of law  the practices of oczm except to streamline the grants process. my strong support of this language continues. and i hope it will indicate to the public how obsolete are the myths about the alleged unbridgeable divisions among regions july 14. 1977 cont over the national energy policies all our people want and need so urgently.
. fea stated in its july 21. 1977 letter to the chairman of the energy and natural resources committee that it supports this amendment. this letter is reprinted on page 239 of report s. 2057. an identical provision is included in the housepassed national energy act bill. and the ftc recommended the provision in its may 20. 1977 comments on the national energy act submitted to the house energy and power subcommittee. i hope the distinguished floor managers of this bill can see the obvious need for this clarifying language and accept this amendment.
. i do still have a number of serious questions about the way the utility program is drawn up. i would. for example. like to raise a question with the distinguished floor managers of the bill as to what exactly they envision as the utilities role in this program. it is clear that we have invented a new set of ecoic relationships in which most utilities have never participated. therefore. i would like to establish clear legislative history on this. and. at the same time. clarify for myself the exact intent of the committee. i do have an amendment which would strike the provision that the utility is charged with arranging such transactions. but. i frankly have drafted this amendment because of my extreme discomfort with the uncertainty of the meaning of this provision: and. i would like to try to clarify the intent of the committee before deciding to file it. according to the bill. a utility must offer. if requested to do so by the customer. "to arrange" to have the energy conservation measures installed. and for a lender to make a loan. although i am aware of the nature of the committee and committee staff discussions i feel it is difficult from reading the language in the bill or the report to tell what is intended to happen or what will happen under this provision. for example. the utility is already required to estimate the cost of installing the measures it recommends and to provide the customer with a list of contractors and lenders. so the "to arrange" language must mean more than this. but. the bill prohibits the utility from actually offering to sell or install the measures. or from lending the money directly. so the language must mean something less than actually offering to sell or install. directly or through subcontractors. the report language does  clarify what is meant. the report says that the utility is to serve as a "systems manager" and that the objective is to enable the customer to complete all arrangements such as a purchase and a loan at one time. but the sale can be made by the utility representative. the report does  explain how this is to take place. on what basis the "sale" or contract is to be made. there are several possibilities. all of which raise serious concerns. if it means that customers will be asked to make purchase decisions based on estimated costs that could perhaps be provided together with the list of contractors and suppliers. then customers could somehow enter into binding contracts with those on the list without having a guaranteed price. there is here a tremendous potential for ripoffs. if the contractor is bound only by the price estimates of the utility energy audit. then the utility is in fact serving as the agent of the contractor and  of the consumer. cost estimates can be made for items such as furnace modifi-. cations without examination of the individual home. how does the committee expect to have bids or a contract presented to the homeowner in just one meeting. . would the committee address itself to that question.
but the committee report said this should be done in one meeting. and i just wanted to k if you foresaw that the energy auditor. for example. would carry with him or her detailed price lists from various lenders and contractors and show these to the homeowner upon request. is that anticipated.
. the extreme tight time limitations imposed by the national energy act bill for promulgation of utility programs or other programs virtually assures that the administrator of fea must rely upon private industry standards in implementing the act. though many. indeed perhaps most. of the privately developed standards will be suitable for use in implementing the act. there is. as indicated above. significant potential for abuse. the federal trade commission has developed valuable expertise in evaluating potential anticompetitive and consumer protection impacts of privately developed standards. if consulted by the fea administrator. the federal trade commission could point out potential adverse impacts of specific standards. and recommend methods of either avoiding those impacts or disclosing them to consumers. my amendment conforms the senate bill to the house version by inserting the language recommended by the ftc. in a letter to senator johnston. the fea said it agreed with the intent of this language. but did  think it necessary because the fea authorization act of 1977 requires consultation with ftc on product standards. i dispute this interpretation. the fea authorization act requires consultation with ftc only concerning questions involving anticompetitive impact of standards.  their tendency o capacity to deceive consumers which must be a major concern for us as we enter this new field of energy conservation materials sales. i sincerely hope the energy committee can agree to include this important protection.
i would hope that the senator would agree that this language is sufficient. it reads as follows:  exceed an amount which the secretary determines is necessary for the purchase and installation of individual utility meters plus an amount which the secretary deems appropriate taking into account amounts which will be saved in operation costs over the period of repayment of the loan by reducing the energy requirements of the project as a result of the installation of energy conserving improvements or solar energy system therein. i would think the discretion given to the secretary with those provisions would be sufficient to alleviate the kind of problem which the senator from louisiana foresees could occur.
. this is an amendment which i offer in behalf of myself and senator mcintyre. our banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. in examining the existing energy conservation standards set under the fha and fmha minimum property standards. found that they were well below in many aspects the level which could be achieved under current building practices. this. therefore. amends section 526 of the national housing act and title v of the housing act of 1949 to require that the minimum property standards set under these two provisions include energy performance requirements that will achieve a significant increase in energy efficiency of new construction. until such time as the standards required under the energy conservation standards for new buildings act of 1976 become effective. the fha and fmha standards need  be identical. however. they must achieve a similar energy efficiency. in essence. this brings the energy standards for properties built or insured under our major housing programs up to the state of the art in energy conservation. it corrects an anachronistic situation which simply need  continue until the comprehensive performance code is available and adopted. it is my understanding. again. that the distinguished majority and miity floor managers of the bill have looked at this amendment and are prone to accept it.
. this amendment would insure that any utility conservation program plan submitted included a prohibition against utilities inspecting furnaces for which they did  supply the heating source. a number of states have laws to this effect already and in those states it would probably be reflected in the plan. the problem that could arise if such a protection were  provided is clearly that utilities could present the information they give so as to suggest that furnaces fueled by alternative energy sources were in some way less efficient. in many cases they will be inspecting inefficient furnaces simply because of the age of most furnaces in many american homes and it is conceivable that they could advocate switching to whichever source of fuel they provide. it is  within the scope of either our kledge or expertise in the congress  of the national energy program to have the utility conservation program generating an accelerated switching from one residential fuel source to aher. since there is way to predict whether the gas or electric utility will be the one selected by the homeowner we can judge which the bias might be in any given region. the line between good salesmanship and true bias is a fine one under any circumstances. and it will be very hard indeed to make the distinction when a utility auditor is chatting with a homeowner. the house bill does provide explicit protection of this nature and i feel the senate bill should  allow this potential for abuse to remain uncorrected. i would hope that the distinguished floor manager would agree with the premise of this amendment.
. i will vote for a new set of more realistic regulations for new natural gas because i believe that we have to manage resources in our mixed ecoy in the best way we k how to maximize the benefits and minimize the costs to consumers. and. i think the proposal before us is a reasonable and long overdue way to get more gas at a fair price.
. the secretary of energy has offered full support to our efforts to strengthen this measure. i ask unanimous consent that his letter to me be printed in full following my remarks. but i would like to quote the section in which dr. schlesinger writes: the amendments you and your cosponsors have proposed would aid the federal government and state utility commissions to ensure that regulatory policies promote conservation in accordance with unique needs and circumstances of each state. i have previously inserted in the record letters of support from the united auto workers. the sierra clubs. and environmental action. today i ask unanimous consent that letters of support from the public citizen/congress watch. the american public power association. and the national association of rural electric cooperatives be printed in the record following my remarks. and also. editorials from the washington post and the boston globe supporting the position that the committee stand on this bill is as the post said. "spurious."
. our amendments represent a very modest attempt to institutionalize a federal policy on electric energy conservation. there has really been serious opposition to this particular package. and a number of us wish it could be even stronger. only those who wish to abdicate policy responsibility completely could oppose these improvements to the bill. i submit to my colleagues that the time to assume our rightful responsibilities is .
. may i say this to my dear friend from new mexico: i think some of us may have fallen into the pit which has been set by some of the utility companies. rhetoric and propaganda. i just want to assure him that there is hing in this amendment which gives the secretary of the department of energy the right to appeal in any federal court. the senator from new mexico said go all the way to the supreme court. how can they go through the courts when they are  even in the federal system.
s energy program. for over 2 years. the nation has been implementing laws whose sole public purpose is the conservation and production of our domestic energy resources.  only is it perfectly evident that managing electric power is of national interest. it is also clear that there are management strategies. particularly restructuring of rates. which can increase the efficiency of precious basic energy resources. save energy. reduce the growth of energy demand. reduce the need for energy capital. and maximize ecoic and procedural justice to endusers of electricity. therefore. i suggest that the overall definition of the policy problem and even the nature of the most effective solutions to that problem are fairly obvious. the only thing that is  yet obvious is what the congress of the united states is going to do about it. and those of us who have worked on these issues for some years are deeply disappointed. the apparent response of the senate is to do simply hing. there is really other way to interpret the legislation we have just recently passed. the accompanying report characterized development of standards as "an unnecessary intrusion" without any adequate explanation. instead. we were presented with a bill which provided that the secretary may collect information and make suggestions about rates to commissioners. or to regulated utilities. which happen to be holding hearings. these suggestions are to be essentially ad hoc. based on formalized body of policy or expertise. and the departments ability to be a presence at all depends on future appropriations for staff. also. the secretarys rights as a party in any proceeding are so limited by this measure that they are fewer than those of any other party to the case. the secretary may  appeal even an arbitrary and capricious rate decision. thus. hing requires consideration of her or his recommendation. indeed. there may be a bias against such consideration since regulators usually feel a need to protect their decisions against possible appeal. finally. we enacted a great many studies. including a continuation of the kind of research efforts we authorized 2 years ago precisely so that by this time we could make policy determinations about appropriate federal strategies. i think if we are frank about what happened in the course of consideration of this measure. we will be forced to admit that the timidity of this approach is a direct result of the emotional. symbolic appeals that have characterized discussions on this issue. a massive and expensive campaign of letters to stockholders following a format suggested by utilities national trade associations has caused unwarranted fears among those who depend on utility stocks for income. the kind of rhetoric that is typical in the letters from the utilities to the owners include such threats as "the very survival of the united states as a free nation is threatened." or "this is a doomsday plan" or "this is an attempted power grab by washington federalists"a phrase which many companies seemed to fancyand. finally. "the free enterprise system will be doomed." elected official wants to confront an electorate that has been frightened by such demagogic and simplistic appeals. but. we in the congress have a responsibility to provide leadership on these energy issues and if we had done so sooner it is very likely that this kind of response would never have arisen at all. as things stand. i am sure we can establish a sound policy initiative aad explain it to the american people who are entitled to all of the facts. of course. it is only natural that many elected officials see the problems of the utilities as so complex that they feel there will be obvious political reward from the sophisticated. yet  highly visible. solutions that federal action might advance. indeed. most of us here realize that there is magic answer to continuing increases in consumer electric bills. but that is reason for the congress of the united states to abandon the problem to the 50 states and to let state officials absorb the political reaction that a utility regulation sometimes evokes. i appeal to all of my colleagues to realize that. if the utilities problems of cost. inefficiency. growth rates. and dependence on fossil fuels are  resolved the congress will eventually be required to find a solution anyhow. and we will be under far greater pressure than we  find ourselves. these issues will be coming right back here to us in the long run. we should  wait for a full blown crisis to take the responsibilities that are rightfully ours. i submit that congressional passage of any halfway measure like the measure which passed the senate would send a clear and negative signal to regulators at the state level. it would say that the expectation of clear federal policy guidance and direction under which state commissions have operated in the last 4 years is  to be fulfilled. it will signal that there will be minimal policy that could equalize ratemaking among jurisdictions. thus. we would again be saying that progressive states which might act to establish policies which could further advance us toward our national energy goals will be penalized in competition for new industry. if the federal governments embryonic energy leadership is to be shackled by the congress in this way. then the day when consumers can evaluate the true value of their energy demand and modify their behavior to reduce current wasteful practices has been indefinitely and unnecessarily delayed. the interjurisdictional competition to provide cheap electric power on convenient terms. regardless of the energy consequences. could well resume. and all this would occur at a time when we could instead be providing real guidance which would reduce future energy demands and save consumers energy. i am disappointed that my amendments which represented a very modest attempt to put forward a clear federal policy on electric energy conservation were defeated. since 1975. i have tried unsuccessfully to initiate such a policy and the evenly divided nature of the senate on this issue convinces me that my continued efforts should  cease. the hard facts point to the need for substantive reform and the congress can avoid that reality for much longer. i hope the housesenate conference committee will send us a strong bill. i certainly plan to continue my efforts for muchneeded change.
ial regulation instead of legislative determination. we owe it to the american people to hammer out a fair compromise we can all stand behind as a responsible. if imperfect. package. a vote for this amendment is a commitment to full congressional participation in creating an effective and equitable energy package.
. i think this is an excellent amendment. certainly the day of solar energy has arrived. and i think the financing of solar energy ought to be in the housing bill. and that solar energy should be encouraged where it is ecoically feasible. i think it makes a lot of sense. the senator from new hampshire states that there is a requirement that hud develop guidelines within a year to determine the longterm feasibility of the solar units. is that  correct.
my position was stated clearly to the senator from vermont. and i think he ks it. it is that i would have objection to a unanimousconsent agreement to oppose an amendment either on the interior appropriations bill. where it does  belong in the first instance. and i am sure the distinguished chairman of the appropriations committee would agree it does  belong here. to put it on here. or to have it go on the public works bill where it also does  belong and should  be there. and i hope this stops some day. that some day we stop legislating on appropriations bills. but apparently we continue to move along that road. but if the senator from louisiana would  request a time limitation on his amendmentthat is our sole objectionthat would give us 2 days in which to work with the department of energy and. hopefully. come up with some agreement between us we could live with. it will  be good for either side on this particular issue. but at least it is an agreement we can live with. and those 2 days would give us that time. and that is my sole reason for objecting to this unanimousconsent agreement.
i think i disagree with my colleague from wyoming. and on what he said so far as the procedure is concerned is absolutely correct. it has been published in the registry and would go into effect. is open for comment and i am sure comments are being received. but i am saying that if we pass an amendment to a bill which becomes law. then the secretary will have to abide by that legislation that is passed by the congress. that is what we were trying to do. to draft language that could be accepted by the senate and. hopefully. then by the house in conference with the senate. which would become law and that would clear up the procedural problems the secretary of energy would have. i do  think the secretary of energy has in the past. or will in the future arrogantly disregard the intent of the congresseven when he was in the defense department and since he has been in the department of energy. i have personally found him most cooperative and most sensitive to the will of the legislative branch of this government. so i do  anticipate that at all. the only thing i am trying to ascertain is if we do come up with legislative language that can be acceptable. i feel that the senator from wyoming and those who feel as he does. and there is a very respectable number of senators on this floor-
. i have referred to my anance with the spurious contention that the east in general and new england in particular is in the habit of demanding special consideration in energy policy or that this set of regulations is a manifestation of some special benefit at other regions expense. first. it is important to recognize that. as a consuming area at the end of every pipeline and rail networkwe have special energy problems. i would like to cite some of the harsh facts prepared lately by doe region 1 and the new england regional commission:
i think the department of energy has already gone through all of the steps it needed to go through as far as the present rule is concerned. and that is the rule that we say will become effective on august 22. what the senator really is referring to is the language under the substitute amendment. and that is the rule he raises. the point of order. or on the procedural grounds. and that is the rule that caused the vote on germaneness which the senate has upheld.
. i say to my colleagues who are advocating this that one would disagree with what the senator from connecticut said about the need of this nation to have a sound and forceful energy policy. we do  have one. i agree with that. and so many others agree with that. we do  have controls. we should have a free market. but having failed to get an energy policy. having failed to have a free market situation. being subjected to spiraling oil. energy. and utility costs  only in new england but generally along the whole eastern seaboard. the secretary of energy. recognizing this. filed in the register an oil entitlements program to give some relief because obviously he found that the relief was needed on the eastern coast. i can see how the senator  just because he comes from connecticut. and i think connecticut is still in the east. is opposed to that. because he is opposed to controls and he is opposed to the fact that we do  have an energy policy. he is opposed to the loss of revenue. but certainly i can understand why the senator from connecticut is opposed to an entitlements program and  to an even weakened entitlements program which is a result of a compromise entered into by senators from the oilproducing states and generally senators from the consuming states of the east and the theast. that is the question i raised.
 i request that both the amendment and the article from fortune magazine of august 14. 1978. entitled "how little oil hit a gusher on capitol hill" be printed in full in the rzcoad following my remarks. the material follows. delete lines 324 on page 71. page 72. and line 119 on page 73. and insert in lieu thereof "section 603." funds authorized in this act shall be used to carry out functions under the entitlements program or similar programs designed to equalize the cost of crude oil among refiners. except in accordance with the restrictions hereunder. [in carrying out any entitlements program or similar program to equalize the costs of crude oil among refiners. the secretary shall abide by the following restrictions: i (1) a small refiner who was  in operation as of the date of enactment hereof. shall  receive any additional benefit under any program requiring the purchase or sale of entitlements or similar cash transfers to equalize the cost of crude oil. (2) (a) small refiner presently receiving benefits under the entitlements program shall receive benefits in an amount greater than the amount of such benefits granted to such refiner during the comparable month of 1975. unless such refiner demonstrates to the secretary or his designate: (i) that unless additional amounts are granted. operation of the refinery will cease or decrease. and (1i) (a) that cessation or reduction of the operation of the refinery will cause a loss of supply of refined petroleum products to an identifiable market segment. which loss will  be made up by other refiners. or (b) that such loss of supply will cause an increase in prices of products to an identifiable market. the total amount of which will be greater than the amount of additional benefits sought in the small refiner. [or (c) that the cessation or reduction in operation of the refinery will significantly reduce competition in an identifiable market to the detriment of the consuming public.] (b) small refiner presently receiving additional benefits under the entitlements program shall continue to receive such benefits after 18 months from the date of enactment hereof. unless such refiner demonstrates to the secretary or his designate: (i) that unless additional amounts are granted. operation of the refinery will cease or decrease. and (i) that cessation or reduction of the operation of the refinery will cause a loss of supply of refined petroleum products to an identifiable market segment. which loss will  be made up by other refiners. or (b) that such loss of supply will cause an increase in the prices of products to an identifiable market. the total amount of which increases will be greater than the amount of additional benefits sought by such small refiner. (or (c) that the cessation or reduction in operation of the refinery will significantly reduce competition in an identifiable market. to the detriment of the consuming public.) provided that in instance in which relief is granted hereunder to a small refiner on or after 18 months from the date of enactment hereof. shall such relief be in an amount greater than the amount received by such small refiner during the comparable month of 1975. (3) in a report to congress the secretary shall include a discussion of the operation of the entitlements program. such discussion shall include an analysis of whether the program has fostered investment in inefficient refineries. the degree to which competition within the industry has been fostered or maintained. the number of inefficient refineries which are  ecoically viable in the absence of the program which have been established. and shall make recommendations concerning the continuation of the program. how lrrtle onl hir a gusier on caprrol hill (by tom alexander) some oil experts are predicting that the u.s. is going to experience a shortage of refinery capacity in a few years. one of the reasons. they add. is that too many refineries are being built. if you think you detect the antic touch of your federal government somewhere in this paradox. youre right. through some convoluted manipulations of oilprice controls. the government has set off a veritable boom in small refineries. since 1976. the total number of refining companies in the u.s. has grown by fortyone. or more than 31 percent. and the pace seems to be accelerating. the exploding refinery population consists almost entirely of inefficient. inappropriately designed plants whose main function is to enrich their owners at public expense. subsidies to small refiners  run well over a billion dollars a year. the government siphons the money away from bigger oil companies. but the consumer ultimately pays. few of the subsidized refineries can do what most needs doing. most are tinyhandling more than 10.000 barrels of crude oil per dayan aaly in an industry where standards of efficiency. productivity. and flexibility call for plants with capacities of at least 175.000 barrels per day. and few of these little "teakettles" are capable either of cleaning up the "sour." or highsulfur. crudes that are relatively plentiful. or of "cracking" the less valuable petroleum fractions into the gasoline and heating oils that the nation most needs.
. dated december 13. 1947. which read as follows: yesterday aftern in the testimony of william e. gan. purchasing agent. buireau of federal supply. before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. it appeared that many suppliers of fuel oil. diesel oil. and kerosene have determined  to bid for the period of 6 months beginning february 1. it also appeared that a number of government buildings had reconverted to oilheating units within the last year. the witness stated that he did  k why they could  reconvert to coal. the total requirements for the 6month period in region  1 was 28.500.000 gallons. and for region  2. 27.500.000 gallons. we do  w have the figure for region  3. we understand the supplies of coal for all those regions are much more adequate than the supplies of fuel oil. as you k. the shortages of fuel oil in portions of both regions 1 and 3 have created emergency conditions which may become much worse soon. and appeals have been made and are being made to the public of those areas to carry out conservation measures. we believe it is of the utmost importance that immediate steps be taken to investigate the possibility of conversions in government buildings  only in the affected areas but throughout the country to determine the wisdom of such a means of relieving the fueloil situation and that vigorous action should be taken to that end. if it is possible to do this. it should also have the further effect of encouraging the conservation suggestions  being urged on the general public. we respectfully and urgently request that you order that such investigation be conducted immediately.  martin to inquire into possibilities as to the fuel situation in new england and as to developments before the house interstate and foreign commerce committee. this telegram was signed by the following members of the new england delegation: angier l. goodwin. robert
 and the departments and agencies of government should take all other possible and appropriate action to utilize such powers as they  possess to aid in alleviating such shortages. already. too much time has elapsed. all too much irreplaceable fuel oil has gone. there is excuse for any further delay. in my opinion. it has been a case of too little and too late. i  only ask in behalf of my constituents. whether they be democrats or republicans or independents. i demand immediate action. i hope each of you. if your constituents are affected. will do everything in your power to support the efforts of your committee on interstate and foreign commerce and of those of us. irrespective of party. who have been working together toward the simple end of preventing this situation from becoming worse and of curing it. if it lies within our power to do so. i k that. even if your cinstituents are  affected. you are interested in the wellbeing of your fellow americans and i ask you. too. to support us.
. i am very happy to be able to make a different kind of a report this morning  only to the new england delegation but to the membership of the house as a whole than those i have had to make in the last few days. just before i left my office i received a letter from mr. john r. steelman with reference to the recommendation as to reconversions from oil to coal which had been made december 13. 1947. by a subcommittee of the new england delegation. i understand a similar letter has been sent to each member of the subcommittee. the letter is as follows:
. all the newspapers published in new england last friday. which i have seen. carried warnings of the blizzard which struck that stormweary region this week end. todays reports are that between 12 and 14 inches of s were added to the from 49.8 inches in boston up to 85.9 inches elsewhere. which has blanketed new england to date. all this was accompanied by low temperatures. ranging from zero to 450 and was accompanied by high winds from 30 to 60 miles per hour. the storm here. which brought 5 inches of s and a low of 10°. tied activities up rather badly and resulted in 34 greater washington families sending emergency calls for fuel oil as supplies dwindled. was a slight imitation of the one in new england. what the results were in new england so far as their fueloil supplies are concerned remains to be seen. uncomfortable as this storm was here. it may have a healthy effect in at long last making clear to some persons in authority how serious the situation has been. is. and will be in other parts of the country unless effective action is taken even at this late date under the authority vested in the secretary of commerce under the export control act of 1940. as amended (50 stat. 463) and extended to february 29. 1948. by this congress by the second decontrol act of 1947 (public law 188. 80th cong.. july 15. 1947). and to february 28. 1949. by the action in december (public law 395. 80th cong.). in the same new england newspapers. aher interesting dispatch was carried with a washington date line. i am confident that the news dispatch is entirely correct. if it was read in full. it would be clear that the comfortable warmth in the house and senate chambers and in our offices is supplied from coal.  fuel oil. but we all realize the tendency to read headlines only. and i am confident you will recognize the possible impressions left on those readers who were trying desperately to obtain fuel oil to heat their homes. hospitals. schools. and industries up there. i have in my hand the article appearing in the boston post. i wish it could be reproduced exactly in the record. with the -inch block headline. "solons offices will  be cold." i will ask for the return of the clipping to my office so that any of you receiving letters about the warmth of your working conditions may see it. and i shall include in my remarks at this point the full article and the headline:
. this morning the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce started its hearings on the results of its recommendations december 19. the under secretary of commerce. mr. foster. was present and testified. many interesting things developed. there will be further developments. but there is one thing to which i call your attention because. again. i am interested that you should be forewarned against what i think is going to be a blizzard of correspondence you will have to answer. late yesterday aftern the gentleman from new jersey called my attention to a picture which appeared in one of his papers. on arriving home last night i found to my amazement that my own local newspaper. the greenfield (mass.) recordergazette. had it on its front page also. you had better check your papers and see whether it is  on their front pages too. it has a headline "milk for europes children and oil for russia." there are two ships pictured. an arrow points to one ship and it bears the ation "oil for russia." aher arrow points to the other ship and it bears the ation "milk for europe." the legend underneath the picture reads: prepared to sail from san diego. calif.. with a precious cargo for the hungry children of europe is the california goodwill milk ship. golden bear (right). in sharp contrast is the steamship kohlozonick (left). which flies the russian flag and is being loaded with hundreds of drums of transformer oil for the soviet machines. colorful ceremonies. in which 5.000 took part. mgrked the milk ships sailing. i asked mr. foster when this had occurred. he said. "that must have been last spring. there has been shipment of that sort since june 30." i then asked international news service to find out when the picture was taken. i received a message just before we recessed advising me the picture was taken in san diego harbor on january 22. 1948. i informed mr. foster and the committee of that and also advised that the american petroleum institute had reported to the committee staff. upon my request. thattransformer oil or transil oil is used in electric transformers and electric oil switches to submerge electric elements to provide a cooling or sparkquenching medium which is an insulator. that it is very sensitive oil and must be handled with great care to avoid contamination as it must  have any moisture in it. it is my recollection that mr. foster stated. in substance. that such oil was  under the control exercised by the department. if i am incorrect in that. i will make the proper correction as soon as i can obtain the transcript of the hearing. i shall certainly tell mr. foster. as well as mr. harriman. that. in my opinion. such oils should be promptly included. certainly the use of electric transformers in the manufacture of machinery and other items is well kn to all of us.
 of the united states. to the secretary of commerce. to the director of the office of international trade. department of commerce. and to the chairman of the board of review. i certainly trust. with those certified copies having been sent to the various offices in the executive departments who are responsible for the welfare. the comfort. and the safety of the people of this country. as well as for the possible prejudice any. such program might bring to the comfort and welfare of people of other countries. that we will  have a repetition of any witness appearing before us and saying he has  been forewarned of what a committee of this house unanimously recommends be done on the part of the executive department. in conclusion. i want to refer to certain astonishing figures. may i say. in connection with house joint resolution 312. which i introduced last week. dealing with the proposition of the historical use of our exports to other countries. that i acted on the assumption a 5year period would be a fair period for prewar judgment. however. it was suggested to me saturday. and i think rightly. that the years 1939 and 1940 should  be used because. since the invasion into poland had begun and the european war was on. naturally conditions were abmal. consequently. i shall either introduce a new resolution using the period from 1934 to 1938. inclusive. or i shall ask the committee to consider an amendment providing for a substitution of those 5 years. using the official statistics of the department of commerce on sunday. i analyzed the exports of certain kinds of fuel and industrial oils to the various countries on a historical basis. using that 5year period. i think you may be interested in a few of the figures. i have  had a chance to verify all of them. but as soon as i do. i shall place them in the record. to australia. under the program undertaken. assuming we would send four times as much fuel oil as was designated for the first quarter. and the department testified that was at least a minimum of what we might anticipate. we would send 400.000 gallons of gas oil and distillate oil to australia in the calendar year 1948. as a matter of fact. in the 5 years 1934 to 1938. inclusive. we sent only* 119.152 gallons of that particular kind of petroleum product. in the case of the residuals we would send. if this. program is  checked and revised immediately. 100.000 gallons of the residual oil. during this same 5 years we sent to australia a total of only 31.416 gallons of that type of oil. in those two fields alone we would be sending 500.000 gallons of those two types of oil against a record of 5 years experience in that period when we sent a total of only 150.568 gallons. that points up some of the weaknesses on the part of the program which has been undertaken down town here. to belgium we would send residual oil under the program 400.000 gallons of that muchneeded type of fuel oil. we only exported to that country in the years 1934 to 1938. 34.918 gallons against a proposed export of 400.000 gallons. i may add that in the years 1936 and 1938 we sent hing of this kind over there to belgium. this is  of the same character. but at least it is indicative of the type of thing that is being done. it is proposed under program to send 1.200.000 gallons of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to france in the calendar year 1948. in the 5 years to which i have referred we sent only 1.469.784 gallons of that type of oil. in other words. we would send. if we approve this program and it goes on ununchecked. 269.784 gallons less than we sent in the entire 5year period to which i have referred. . there is aher analysis which obviously should be made. and i k those of you who are interested in this problem expect me to make it and i promise that i will. although it is clear that we are setting up a program or have set up a program which. if carried through. would produce those very amazing contradictory and absolutely unjustifiable results on any explanation which has been given to us yet. nevertheless my suggestion obviously is that we should average the exports and consequently take the figures i have given you and divide them by five. we can do that with the other countries which i have  mentioned. i hope to have that done sometime tomorrow and will insert it in the record. earlier in my statement i read excerpts from an editorial which appeared in the springfield daily news of january 31. and i also read certain paragraphs from a resolution adopted by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house. for the convenience of those interested in the matter and under permission previously given me. i set forth both in full at this point: [from the springfield (mass.) daily news of
i want to bring out this point . my analysis shows that there are 22 buildings being operated. as reported. in the district of columbia and adjacent areas. if my mathematics is correct. we have in this report buildings amounting to 60 outside the district. that makes 82 buildings involved in this appropriation bill. in many instances. the report is that the conversion is  feasible. in other words. the report is startling. the total overall expenditure that is estimated if they would convert from heat by fuel oil and heat by natural gas back to heat by coal. would be $414.220. that is verified by the staff of the committee. i do  k whether the committee would accept an amendment authorizing the additional amount of $414.220. i would be the last person to advocate the addition of a single dollar for the purpose of any unnecessary expenditure. i am one who believes that we must confine ourselves to absolute necessities if we are going to bring down the cost of living. which is vitally affected by the amount of funds taken from the american taxpayers to operate the federal government. yet. i may still submit such an amendment to the committee. in the hope it will consider it favorably as a capital expenditure. i have in mind the testimony of such qualified witnesses as secretary forrestal. secretary krug. director max ball. and many others. indicating their convictions that this is  a temporary shortage but one which will be with us at least for 5 years. if their dire predictions are accurate. then we shall have expended for a period of 5 years an annual sum of $82.844. even though we do have to invest it  in one lump sum in order to force these government agencies to take the lead in conservation of this muchneeded fuel oil. i call your attention to the fact that the tabulation shows a total savings could be made annually of 6.668.155 gallons of fuel oil. even allowing for the fact that some of these conversions can be completed for a period of from 4 to 6 months. and one apparently  for 300 days. most of them can be rapidly completed and many of them at a inal sum. the saving in 5 years would amount to 33.440.775 gallons. let us be conservative about it and say that we could only save from between 25 and 30 million gallons in this 5year period. would it  be worth the expenditure of $82.844 annually on that basis alone. in this connection. let me read a telegram to one of my colleagues from detroit: detroit housing commission down to 14 days supply of fuel oil for 250 veterans families living in veterans housing project. 30.000 gallons would carry us through until april. all local suppliers refuse us. what do those veterans think about burning up 6.668.155 gallons yearly. when 30.000 gallons would carry them through until april. i do  find any building in michigan listed. but let us get oil to this group of veterans rather than. for instance. the sloan building on twelfth street. where 58.000 gallons will be used this year. or the arlington building at 705 columbia pike. where 34.000 gallons will be burned this year. at least. if the 14 days cancellation privilege was exercised. from either of these sources more than egh fuel oil would be saved to supply these veterans needs. and my guess is that they would be glad to pay for the hire of sufficient trucks to come on here to take the oil and put it in their storage tanks. . there is aher reason i urge you to consider. it is our understanding that the oil industry is  reverting to the wartime. unecoic practice of running the solid fuel tankcar trains from texas to new england. i do  have the figures at the moment. but i hope to have them by tomorrow. it is my impression that the cost of this sort of an operation. instead of tanker carriage. practically doubles the price of oil. during the war the government paid that bill.  the industry must absorb it. or they must pass it on to the consumer and. judging from the reports of increasing prices. i am confident they arepassing it on to the consumer. which is better. that we should spend $414.220 of the taxpayers money to save 6.668.155 gallons of oil. or that we should load him with the necessity of paying certainly that extra amount on his bills for fuel oil and kerosene. a third point might be stressed. if this is done we shall have these savings indefinitely into the future until the time comes when we hope we may be able to develop synthetics or new fields to the point where we again have a surplus. it seems to me that even those who are understandably interested in the sale of oil and natural gas should join with us in this limitation for the fiscal year of 1949. even though they can see their way clear in voting the extra appropriation. certainly there is an immediate market for every gill of fuel oil and kerosene  being produced in this country and every cubic foot of natural gas being offered. i do  think anyone would care to assert that in either of these fields. before july 1. 1949. we will have a surplus. i have broken that down again. i have  worked out the consumption in gallons. there are four buildings in this group where the conversion would run from $15 to $100. a total of $165. the second group that i worked out ran from $100 to $1.000. there are seven of them. five are under $1.000 and e over $500. the period of time required would be from 15 to 120 days. that is $3.550. may i remark that the new england subcommittee raised this question in december. more than 30 days have elapsed. so that most of these conversions that could have been undertaken at that time would have been completed . and the fuel oil would have been saved. there is aher group of $1.001 to $5.000. it would take from 40 to 180 days to complete the conversion. the total amount is $26.408. aher group from $5.000 to $25.000. only one of them being over $18.000. it would take 60 to 180 days and would cost $59.000. there is one which would take 120 days and cost $26.500. aher would take 300 days and cost $90.000. aher would take 120 days and cost $125.000. i raise this question at this time but i shall put in the entire tabulation under permission which i shall ask when we get back in the house because i think this is going to throw a lot of light on a motion i expect to offer tomorrow. which i have submitted to the chairman and which addresses itself to one phase of this problem. the motion would be a restriction. it would be at page 29 of the bill. line 25. a new paragraph to read as follows: part of the foregoing appropriations to the federal works agency shall be used for the purpose of converting any existing coalheating units to oil or natural gas. i have added natural gas because of the fact that in detroit. in parts of new england. new york. and even here in the district of columbia the supply of natural gas is  sufficient. although it is  a matter of direct and immediate interest to us in new england for. so far as i k. we have very little. if any. natural gas there. consequently i understand that in these other areas they have to manufacture additional gas from this limited supply of fuel oil and they are putting on the individual consumer the prime burden of carrying out this conservation program. natural gas in any federally owned or rented buildings in or outside the district of columbia. i have put in rented buildings because it is only fair to anticipate that the landlords of those buildings who are getting big rentals. paid on the dot. should be willing to go along in this program of conservation. one final comment and then i will  trespass further on the gentlemans time. i want to call the committees attention to one particular problem posed by this report. the report indicates buildings currently being converted to oil under contract. this will be interesting. i believe. to the membership of the house. one of these buildings is the sloan building. located at 711 twelfth street nw.. stated to be under the veterans group. it will consume 58.000 gallons of oil every year. i find a ation here that it would be possible to convert in 14 days for $1.500. i do  k what that means. unless it is that they have the legal right to cancel the order for oil equipment on 14 days ice. here they have protected themselves and us and we can stop this conversion right here in the district of columbia.
i appreciate very much the attitude that the gentleman has taken. and i also appreciate the attitude taken by the other members in this body. but i will be frank with you that i must support the gentlemans amendment. i do it for this purpose. it is my understanding that right here in the district we are burning fuel oil in order to make up the shortages of natural gas. i said yesterday. and i say again. that this is a longrange problem. we can overlook the fact that 200.000 people are out of work in michigan and 15.000 people are out of work in the pittsburgh area. and for every cubic foot of natural gas that you send up to us we will pay premium prices for.
 let me say to you that you should read the minutes of the maritime commission if you want to be enlightened on the responsibility of congress for the disposition of the tankers. that decision was taken downtown on december 17. if i recall correctly. i will change that date if i am in error. but it was taken right in the midst of the -hearings before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. while they knew we needed these tankers. i do  care who they are. i do  k and i am  interested in their political views. i am simply saying that you and i need the tankers to take fuel up to our constituents in the theast. and i k you will help me to try to get them.
you discussed it as a commissioner. as to whether you would proceed one way or the other. whether you would consummate the sales. or complete the sales and delivery of any portion of this 83 tankers. or whether you might make aher decision for the benefit of people in this country who are in critical condition as far as their fuel is concerned. and so far as their industrial activities are concerned. and you came to the conclusion that you would disregard interests of the people who were affected in this country. is that right.
that is a good question. and i think a just one. the only thing that i would recommend in the case of an individual wanting to convert to coal is for him to get in touch with his dealer and see if he can guarantee uninterrupted coal deliveries. if he can. i would say convert. you heard the story of the emergency situation in thampton from the gentleman from massachusetts . all i can do is to ask those of you interested to join me in presenting this matter to the other body. at this point i wish to thank the gentleman from texas . former speaker of the house. for helping us out. we deeply appreciate his understanding. that of his colleague the gentleman from texas . of the gentleman from florida . and of the gentleman from alabama . we appreciate the help all of you gave us in this first step. we are sure you will continue to listen sympathetically to any suggestion which you feel is constructive. when you suffer from disasters. such as tornadoes. floods. or explosion. i think you have found a quick and unquestioning response from the theast when you called for assistance. our neighbors. our constituents in the theast. need your help . and we are confident of your response. it is a weighing of the resources we have to judge. our own committee has recommended unanimously making a prompt study of this whole longrange problem by a joint committee. and i have yet to see a single editorial against it.
i thank the gentleman very much for his contribution. and also my colleagues from all new england. country quotas of petroleum products [in barrelsi kerosene gas oil and residual fuel aviation gas motor gas (ero700) distillate fuel oi(01.) (5016.00) (5017.00) oil (5030.00) oii (5031.00) argentina- ------------------------ ------------ 220.000 ----------------------------------------australia ........................ - 20. 000 300.000 50.000 100.000 2.5.000 belgium -------------------------------------- 175.000 8.000 175. 000 70. 000 brazil ...........................................- 80.000 ................................................. british honduras ---------------- 2.000 5.000 2.000 3.000 --------------china --------------------------- 60. 000 350. 000 85.000 100. 000 ----_------costa rica ----------------------- 2.400 30.000 3. 500 10. 000 20.000 cuba ---------------------------- 25. 000 200.000 -------------------------------- 200. 000 denmark ---------------------------------------- 70. 000 ---------------- 120.000 60.000 el salvador ------------------------------------- 25.000 1.500 3.500 40.000 eire ----------------------------- 15.000 -----------------------------.----------------.--------------france -------------------------- 120.000 ---------------- --_------------ 300.000 ---------guatemala ---------------------- - 5.000 8.000 2.000 ----------------- -55. 00 italy ---------------------------- 30. 000 --------------- ----------------- ---------------------mexico -------------------------- 80. 000 350. 000 ------ - 75. 000 250000 new zealand -------------------- 10. 000 140.000 20. 000 35. 000 ------_------way- ----------------------------------------- 10.000 7.000 ............................... lanarua republic ---------------- 100 40.000 7.000 ---------------- 25. 000 paraguay ------------------....... 1. 500 ........................................................ philippines -------------------- 20 000 280.000 60.000 135.000 portugal ------------------------- 20. 000 50.000 30. 000 10.000 19. 000 sweden ------------------------------------------ 225.000 50. 000 250.000 00o. 000 united kingdom ----------------- 120.000 1.400.000 80.000 1.000.000 ............... netherlands -------------------------------------------------------------------- 60. 000 --------------iceland ------------------------- 35. 000 30. 000 -----------------------------------------british west africa -------------- 5.000 70. 000 25. 00 . 20. 000 10.000 switzerland ------------------------------------ 30. 000 10. 000 50. 000 ............... french west africa ------------- 10.000 60. 000 10. 000 ---------------- 15. 000 subtotal ------------------- 581. 000 4.148. 000 451.000 2. 446. 500 849.000 reserve --------------------------- 119.000 402. 000 149. 000 353. 500 151.000 total ---------------------- 700. 000 4.550. 000 600.000 2. 800. 000 1. 000.000 total cut --------------------------------- 700.000 300. 000 400. 000 800. 000
. because i am deeply convinced that.  only in terms of the immediate future but in terms of the longrange problem. this congress must address itself to the question of how we are going to handle this problem. i. have today introduced a resolution. h. r. 5392. for the purpose of creating a national petroleum commission. basically it follows the pattern of the interstate commerce act creating the interstate commerce commission. it provides for a separate agency. it does  exclude natural gas or any other type of petroleum products  being controlled by any other agency. it places full re-. sponsibility in that commission. i am  wedded to that "as a single idea of how we are going to meet this challenge and discharge our responsibilities. i have done this reluctantly because i think industry has done a magnificent job. but they have  done egh. and they k that themselves. these charges are being made in their own trade papers. the more progressive and more realistic in the industry recognize it. the late clyde morrow stated emphatically in an editorial printed in the national petroleum news that they must rise to this challenge. i say they must rise to it this week and  next summer and  next winter. i think the time has come for them to speak up as to how they are going to do this job. to tell the congress what they have done. what they have  done. how they expect to close this gap and whether they. in fact. can close it. i think that is important for us.to k. too many may be engaged in exporting and too many may be selling this oil overseas for the dollar value that is involved in contrast to the dollar value on our east coast. i say the challenge is definitely laid on their doorsteps this aftern. and unless they come up immediatelyand by "immediately" i mean by the end of this weekwith some concrete suggestions which will be accepted by the members of coigress and which can be explained to these people who are dependent upon us. as this gentleman who wired me is. to do something for them. then i say they have to acceptthe yoke of some type of regulation. i k of hing better than a fulltime expert commission with full responsibility which can take charge of what is going on in all phases of the industry from production through refining. distribution and marketing. it is  something any single member can do. it is  something any sinigle committee can do. we have our other responsibilities. but. what we are dealing with is the heart blood of our american ecoy. and in my opinion it is the greatest single factor. aside from manpower. in the whole overall problem of our national security. your people and my people have been very tolerant. but they are  going to put up much longer with these shortages and these high prices without something in the nature of a satisfactory explanation. if that explanation is  forthcoming during the assigned hearings before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce on tuesday. wednesday. and thursday of this week. i am going to do my level best to get this bill which has been referred to that committee reported favorably and to get the other resolution reported favorably to stop this leakage of desperately needed oils to such places as tahiti and the fiji islands and cuba and mexico and other places fortunate today in having a reasonably warm climate. in favor of these people in our own communities who have been suffering. are suffering. and will suffer unless we have the courage and willingness to do the job ourselves.
the parliamentary procedure here sort of cramps my style. and i am talking to a lady. so i can express myself as emphatically as i have to them. but i assure the gentlewoman they k that i think it is plain igance of facts. combined with stupid stubbornness. from start to finish. that should be plain as a pikestaff to anyone who can read english and understands figures. it does  require an expert to understand that a barrel of fuel oil shipped overseas is a barrel less here.
the only thing i can say is that when i wired the president on february 10. mr. connellys letter to me advised that the matter had been referred to the secretary of commerce. the law we enacted calls for the secretary of commerce to exercise those controls. it also has a provision in it that requires the secretary to certify that we are  injuring our domestic ecoy when he grants these licenses. so far as i k. there has  been a single case where that certification has been issued. how that can be acceptable to the department of commerce. in view of the fact that in the great state of michigan there are still 200.000 people out of work. in view of the shortage of fuel which resulted in the shutdown in the pittsburgh area. and in view of what is going on in our area. is just beyond my comprehension.
you are quite right. we are exasperated. which may keep us warm but it will  warm homes in new england. since we k that the department of commerce is satisfied with its decision  to do anything more. i assume the president will  order it to act. therefore. the only source of action is the congress. we have been more than patient. satisfactory reasons have been advanced for this decision. we k that every day we delay  means a further loss of thousands of barrels. i realize we will have important legislation on the floor this week but i hope we will be in a position to act next week. and that will give the department aher chance to follow the committees recommendation. but. if it remains defiant. if it iges the recommendation. i think we shouldwe mustlegislate. personally. i am  inclined to favor house joint resolution 317 as the fairest approach toward limitations in terms of historical users and the demonstrated critical situation here. while i understand that ambassador douglas left for england today. i am grateful for his endorsement of the base period set forth in the resolution and i have every confidence that he will express his opinion as to the desirability of some such legislation as soon as he has time to study the pending proposals. it is entirely characteristic of his honesty and ability that he should have commended the action of the foreign relations committee on the erp program in the face of the illjudged and illconsidered demands from some quarters that congress pass the bill as submitted to it. without crippling amendments. congress has a responsibility in all these matters and i do  think it is going to evade it. just because the department of commerce thinks under some further limitation it might be just possible that to divert 1 gallon of kerosene from tahiti to massachusetts or 1 barrel of distillate from the fiji islands to detroit will wreck the ecoies of those countries or just because such balderdash is echoed by one or two editorial writers or three or four columnists. wellkn to be friendly stooges for some of the ruleorruin circles in some quarters downtown. i have located a bit of in.teresting information about our friends in tahiti. they number 8.585. pittsfield numbers 26.652. tahitians got about ninetenths of a barrel of fuel oil per capita from this shipmentabout thirtyseven and eighttenths gallons. that should light a lot of lights. wednesday night a considerable number of people among pittsfields 26.652 face the prospect of 11 days of unheated homes. ido  think that makes any more sense to you than it does to me. i sometimes wonder if some people really believe they can kid us up here indefinitely. one thing is clearthey are engaged in a desperate gamble. i suppose they hope. as we do. that the weather will become warmer here soon and that people will soon forget that they were made cold and sick and jobless by this piece of supremely arrogant indifference to their comfort and welfare. what the excuse will be when we go short of gasoline this summer i can guess. i think we might look into the exports of motor gas and also of eightcylinder automobiles americans can buy. the exports of diesel engines. of oilburning units. of oilburning tractors. i certainly intend to have for you soon the full story of our exports to russia. under this program. including that cargo of transformer oil last january which under secretary foster said must have taken place last summer. but the more driblets of information we blast out of hiding. the more convinced i am that we need a fulltime expert group checking every phase of the problem. as i have advocated in h. r. 5392. it might  be a bad idea for the department of commerce to adopt a catchy slogan like "millions of gallons for everyone else but  one drop for you." then they could answer all our correspondence. as well as that of our constituents. inexpensively. by printing it on several million letterheads. with a short typed body such as "dear congressman: see our slogan. please shut up." speaking for myself alone. i do  intend to stop talking. even though we need fuel oil.  oratory. until i find a program has been adopted which is logical and sensible. which is demonstrably one which has been carefully prepared based on kn facts here and elsewhere. and which can be explained and will satisfy intelligent americans who are demanding tliat we act . this evasive. buckpassing. hesitating performance here. running 4ack to last december is one one can explain to date. one has even attempted to do so except in terms of expressing personal conclusions and generalities unsupported by a scintilla of evidence. . i can help but wonder how so intelligent a person as the secretary of commerce can come before committees of this congress advocating the creation of additional standby controls in the face of the actual facts of the use of existing export controls. i include here a copy of my original telegram of february 10 to secretary harriman. a copy of the telegram from david bruce. assistant secretary of commerce. a copy of my reply to him. and a copy of the bill i introduced today. which has been numbered h. r. 5392 and which has been referred to the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce: washington. d. c.. february 10. 1948.
i understand the gentlemans position. i simply say this in reply: we have been told within the last week in the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce that if we will increase the storage tanks from 275 gallons to a thousand gallons in otir communities they will be able to store up the surplus from your community and avoid these recurrent shortages. if we succeed. and the industry is probing the possibility of assisting the individual consumer along this line. we will probably bring from your area a substantial part of what you  call surplus in order to build up stocks. that is a slow process. i certainly am  going to offer any amendment that any member feels is injurious to his own district. in the previous amendment the gentleman from texas asked me to take out natural gas. i did so. it was reinserted by the house. the gentleman asked me to insert the words "when there is a shortage" and i did so. but as i explained earlier. i think that raises a question of construction. you may  be short at the moment but you may be very short next year. perhaps i should say. in view of the gentlemans advice as to the situation in his district that some of us may  be short  but may be in bad shape in early march. it is my feeling that we have such a terrific demand for every bit of oil we can get from any place. that the federal government at least should set the example by first.  converting from coal to oil. and second.  undertaking to go into oil heating on new installa-. tions. unless they can be dead certain of their supply. i say their supply is secondary after your and my industries and institutions and your and my homes are heated. of course. i want to bring about a sensible solution and" if the gentleman feels he can join me this aftern. i shall be glad to talk with him about a better approach to future appropriation bills. if the gentleman feels that is impossible. i appreciate his position and shall still try to work out this better solution. possibly we could then submit it to our colleagues in the other body for their consideration and for conference. if my explanation of my purpose does  satisfy the gentleman. i will be glad to hear what further modification he thinks should be made.
i think we will have to leave it to our states and local communities to readjust the program they may have in terms of kn facts and the best judgment they can exercise. as i said to the gentleman from oklahoma. i do admit the comparative danger of writing legislation from the floor and. with that in mind. i submitted all the information i could obtain to several chairmen of the subcommittees. i have received many responses indicating they welcome this sort of a report and will be glad to check into it in terms of future appropriation bills. unfortunately. i was  able to obtain the information soon egh to furnish it to this subcommittee or to the subcommittees on independent offices and civil functions. it may be that i will have to submit an amendment to one or two other bills. which are almost ready for report. but i agree with my friend. the gentleman from massachusetts. and my friend. the gentleman from oklahoma. that it would be far better if we could work out a sound approach which would create hardship in any instance but would serve to assist shortage areas in building stocks so that we will  have this threat of recurrence of shortages winter after winter. to be followed by shortages of gasoline summer after summer. to make the situation perfectly clear. i do  think that any existing oilheating unit should be converted unless the relative cost justifies it. it is entirely possible that new construction in localities where oil is relatively inexpensive and plentiful should be heated in that way. too. there might be a burden of additional transportation which would be ecoically unsound if they had to convert to coal for instance. but. my whole approach is based on the repeated statements from competent government officials. as well as able industry representatives. that we just do  have sufficient oil  or in sight for several years to meet our full demands and. therefore. i think we should insist that the federal government  only recommend conservation but practice it wherever possible. may i add. at this time. that the gentleman from massachusetts and his colleagues on that side of the aisle from new england. as well as others in other sections. have cooperated magnificently in our joint effort to work out a solution. and i welcome such suggestions as he and the gentleman from oklahoma have made because i think that among us we can develop a sound approach which will be helpful.
absolutely. i think with more than 559.000 barrels in their possession. there is going to be a slackening of demand. and. consequently. i think that the major oil companies should be willing to consider that and offer a price reduction instead of threatening the country with aher increase. which statement has been made publicly before my committee. let me say further that i believe this oil should be placed in pools and be available to anyone. to a single householder who can get just as cold as the dozens of others who are comfortably heated by coal or wood. i think this should be placed in a public pool available to anybody. i think also it may effect a decrease in price. i think it could.
if someone has the time he could give the gentlewoman that information. what they do with us is to come up there and put a stack of volumes that high on our desks. i confess i have chance to go over them thoroughly. i have been able to pick out some points which i thought were important. on last sunday aftern i made an analysis of the latest licenses that were issued and if my mathematics are correct they have overissue. the licenses in terms of residual fuel oils out of the reserve items. i talked to a gentleman in the oit about that and he says that it may be that they gave me some wrong figures. he stated that they are working under pressure. or it may be that my mathematics is  accurate. but i am perfectly willing to correct anything. if i can get the information about it. i can understand why it is. with 500 people in that office. they can come up here with some figures for us. when they k that both of us and every other individual in this congress have worked to the limit on many other things. i do  understand why 500 peoplecan do the job. it is rather peculiar to me. i do  k what their appropriation is going to be but i shall look into it.
 sir. it simply would mean that they could  go ahead as they did at the boston marine hospital and convert from coal to oil. that is what they did in december. making it utterly impossible for us to arrange any reconversion back to coal when we have an ample supply of coal. secondly. if they plan an installation. that is. a new installation. all we are asking them to do and all my amendment asks them to do is to be sure that they are  taking away from the short supplies of oil which go to heat the homes and industries of your people.
 of the committee is. if he cares to address him:elf to the problem. i would amend this bill at page 40. line 7. by inserting a new section. 302. as follows: that part of the appropriations -contained in this act shall be used for the purpose of converting any coal heating units to oil or natural gas in any federally owned or rented buildings in the states of. this is the limitation. i think it is. perhaps. a wise one: connecticut. delaware. florida. georgia. illis. indiana. iowa. kansas. kentucky. maryland. massachusetts. michigan. minnesota. missouri. nebraska. new hampshire. new jersey. new york. th carolina. th dakota. ohio. oklahomai want to speak of oklahoma in that connectionpennsylvania. rhode island. south carolina. south dakota. tennessee. vermont. virginia. west virginia. wisconsin. and the district of columbia. those are the states in whichfuel coordinators have been appointed because of the very severe conditions which have existed in those states. and i like that language a lot better than the language that was used in the first appropriation bill which came before us covering states where there was a fuel emergency. one can dispute the fact that the appointment of an oil coordinator indicates a definite emergency  and a probable emergency for several years to come. i should add that i am told that there is such a coordinator in oklahoma. i did  k that before today. i would strike it out if my friends from oklahoma wish me to do so. then i simply add also "or for the installation of oil heating units in any new construction in those states and the district of columbia." i called the treasury and asked them what they intended to do. and i had a telephone message from a mr. johnson this morning. which he said he would confirm by letter. the message is as follows: treasury department appropriation estimates for the fiscal year 1949 do  provide for the conversion of any coal heating units to oil or natural gas. or the installation of oil heating units in any new construction.i  have a letter from secretary snyder which is as follows:
. on last friday the committee on interstate and foreign commerce unanimously decided to send the following message to all coordinators in each of the states and in the district of columbia who have been appointed during the past winter: house interstate and foreign commerce committee requests your advice by tuesday morning as to prospects in your state through april 30 in terms of available heating and industrial oils. the committee would appreciate your best estimate of the number of barrels required beyond anticipated deliveries in that period of kerosene. gas. oil. and distillate fuel and residual oil to guarantee shortage within your state.
. my purpose in using part of the time granted me is to bring up to date certain developments with reference to the fueloil situation. earlier today i read certain telegrams sent to the chairman of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce from several state fuel coordinators. indicating in large measure that a considerable degree of optimism exists among them as to their ability to carry through the last of april. i think in part that is due to certain things done by the industry itself. i want to call attention to an article which appears in mondays journal of commerce:
. the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce has  received two additional replies from state fueloil coordinators in massachusetts and in nebraska. these replies and the ones i placed in the record previously indicate a fairly comfortable situation along the atlantic coast. with the exception of new york and delaware. they indicate. however. a very difficult situation in minnesota. nebraska. the dakotas. wisconsin. and that general area. we of the east coast have desire to take from those who need fuel oil that which exists in the gulf coast territory. it is my purpose  to let this situation die as far as the east coast is concerned but to join with my colleagues of the midwest who do need fuel oil. and i will do all i can to try to help them get it. if. through some unanticipated circumstances. we should find ourselves in difficulties. i k that they would help us as they have during this winter. i do want to caution all who are interested that this does  mean that we are entirely safe. a reading of the telegrams will clearly indicate that it will be only through the continued cooperation of everyone and through the most careful practice of conservation that we shall be guaranteed hardships. the telegram from massachusetts is as follows: boston. mass.. march 17. 1948.
i assure the gentleman that was  my purpose in any sense of the word. if it is agreeable to the acting chairman and if he will read the questions that have been asked by both of us and see that we will have the answers in the record tomorrow in terms of interpretation of this act i think it will be extremely useful. secondly. i want to call the acting chairmans attention to a report i am sure has come to the attention of his committee. i refer to the progress report of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce on the fuel investigation. dated february 27. 1948. in which this very problem of the european recovery program was dealt with extensively. may i ask your consideration of one paragraph in that report which is- of vital importance to the people in this country in terms of shortages we have had and the shortages we undoubtedly will continue.to have unless this program is wisely administered. that is this: it appears that the largest increase in prospective demand of nearly all the european countries is in gas. diesel. and fuel oil. this european demand results in part from the greatly increased use of diesel engines. in road and iailroad transportation. agriculture. shipping. and industry. but mainly caused by the conversion from coal to oil in industry and shipping between 1945 and in the total energy balance of these countries. oil has always played a much. less prominent role than it has in the united states. in view of the uncertainties as to supply. it appears that this may  be the time for encouragement of any largescale conversion in european countries from coal to oil. this would appear true. for example. in france. in the conversion of railway power from coal to oil. in greece. in the allocations of gas. oil. and fuel oil to industrial use. in portugal. in the conversion of the fishing fleet to motorboats and oilburning trawlers. in holland. in conversion to motorboats and tugs on the inland waterways. in italy. in expansion of motorships. and in various countries in the expansion of highway transportation. i wish the committee would indicate whether they intend that such conversions are  to be included in this program. what base period will be used by the administrator1938 or 1947 or what period. what does it mean by an "undesirable expansion of petroleumconsuming equipment". surely some understandable standard can be provided. are we to underwrite the conversion of railway power from coal to oil. the conversions of fishing fleets. of motorboats and tugs. the expansion of motorships and of highway transportation beyond the 1938 level or the 1947 level. if so. what justifications are offered. certainly. this congress is responsible to the american people. it must weigh the probabilities involved so far. as their comfort. their health. and their security are concerned. is it  obvious that we can hope to accomplish what this program seeks to accomplish if we ige the necessity of answers to these legitimate questions. we must  cripple our own productive capacity. which is the key to the success of this effort.
i thank the gentleman. my principal interest is that the government in its buildings. either owned or leased. should understand that under stretch of imagination or construction can undertake new installations of oilburner equipment or convert from coal to oilburning equipment. the statement made by the chairman makes that crystal clear.
may i. too. add my own personal word of appreciation for the outstanding work the gentleman and his committee have done. obviously it relieves the rest of us of a very great deal of work. may i ask a question at this point. as the gentleman ks. throughout the year i have been deeply interested in the overall problem of the fueloil situation throughout the country as well as in the district of columbia. i have  had an opportunity to read these hearings carefully. i have discussed the matter with the gentleman and with members of the committee. i think i k the answer to the question i wish to ask. i ice that there is a sharp increase in fuel obligations and the oil obligations in the school budget. and i was very much pleased to e on page 1059 of the hearings that in discussing the fuel situation at st. elizabeths hospital the chairman made the remark that the fueloil situation is extremely desperate. i have  the slightest doubt but what throughout the hearings the gentleman and the committee have had in mind the probability that we will  be out of this situation for at least aher winter. in view of the construction and the extensions provided for in the district of columbia budget. it is correct to say that the committee does  infend that any of his appropriation shall be used for either the installation of new oilburning equipment or for conversion from coal to oilburning equipment.
 and the clerk of the committee. and i believe i am correct in understanding that there are funds provided in this bill for new installations of oilheating units. or for the conversion from coal to oilheating units. yet i think it is proper for me to ask. so that it may be in the legislative record of this bill. if it is the intention of the committee that such funds shall be used unless it can be clearly shown that it is a wise policy. because of the fact that there is a large amount of oil available in nearby areas. i make that simple qualification. because i understand through a misprint in a previous bill unfortunately the words were used. "when there was an oil shortage." when actually and in fact the words i used in presenting the amendment were "where there is oil shortage." i intend to cooperate to correct that before the session ends. going back to this particular bill. may i put it this way: am i right in understanding that there is  only request for money in this bill for the purpose of converting any coalheating units to oil. or the installation of any new oilheating units. but also. obviously it is  the intention of the committee that any such use should be made of any funds provided in this bill.
in general. it carries out the purpose of the executive order of the president which is still in effect. that all government agencies shall do their best to conserve fuel oil until we get out of this difficult period.
. i want to urge support for this amendment since it is a definite effort to correct a clerical error in the passage of public law 491 at this session. when that bill. h. r. 5214. came before the house on february 4. i offered an amendment which is printed in the second column of page 1082 of the record. in the statement i made at that time. i reported that the gentleman from texas had indicated that he would prefer that i should add to the original text of the amendment i had prepared the words. "in areas where there is a fueloilshortage." however. it appears in the record that the word "when" was used instead of the word "where" and in public law 491. which was approved april 20. the erroneous word "when" also appears in title i. the last paragraph on page 9. it is my understanding that this error has brought about some unfortunate results in parts of the south where it is expensive and unecoical to bring coal from some distances to points where there is an ample supply of both heating oil and natural gas. certainly. the clear purpose of the additional words suggested by the gentleman from texas .7642 was to avoid just that sort of a condition. in my discussions of the problem of the committees intention with reference to other appropriation bills i have attempted to make it clear that it was my purpose and i felt the purpose of the various subcommittees to emphasize the absolute necessity of eliminating conversions from coalheating units to oilheating units. or the installation of new oilheating units unless it could be clearly demonstrated that such action was completely sound and ecoical. having in mind the facts with reference to the oil supply in this country. i recognize that section 103 of this bill subjects all funds appropriated herein to the general provisions of titles i and ii of the independent offices appropriation act. 1949. and consequently that this limitation as it was adopted in public law 491 would apply as to the funds we are appropriating today. but i do think. in fairness to the gentleman from texas . and in fairness to our colleagues from areas where ample supplies do exist. where heating by coal may be unecoic and unwise. this explanation should be made. and i hope the committee amendment will be adopted unanimously. .. under permjssion which i shall seek .4n the house..oi do want ta furnish the members with a report which was delivered to me this morning in a letter from maj. gen. philip b. fleming. administrator of the federal works agency. i hope. the leter and the data general fleming has provided me will be a source of encouragement to you. as it is to me. in my judgment. it proves the wisdom of the insistence upon conservation of heating oils by the federal government in operating its own properties. whether owned directly or held un der lease. it also proves the soundness of the recommendation to this effect made by the subcommittee of the massachusetts delegation last december. the amount of fuel oil which will apparently be saved annually in terms of this report from general fleming is 7.763.055 gallons. added to the previous reports. the grand total of estimated annual savings appears to be 68.188.055 gallons. certainly this has been a constructive effort. and the various agencies are to be commended. nevertheless. i think the very success of this effort is a good argument for continued insistence by the congress upon the policy practically every subcommittee of the appropriations committee has approved. general flemings letter and the report follow:
 and the members of the committee have expressed their intention that the committtee did  wish to have any funds used for the installation of new oilburning equipment or for diversions from coal to oil. in view of the situation which confronts us. unless it can be clearly shown that it is ecoically necessary to undertake such construction. i assume that is true in connection with this bill. xciv534
i thank the gentleman and want  to express my sincere appreciation for his cooperation and that of the chairmen and members of the subcommittees. as i recall it. this guide to spending funds in the bills passed at this session was adopted with but two exceptions. certainly the members of the committee who have helped develop this administrative guide can never be criticized if we are unfortunate egh to have further shortages in petroleum products. by this action we have clearly provided a standard which must be used by those administering the expenditure of funds appropriated this year. i have question but that this will be done. but i also want to assure my colleagues that the committee on interstate and foreign commerce will follow this closely in connection with its discharge of its responsibilities in formulating and recommending a national fuel policy to meet the needs of this country in connection with its expanding domestic ecoy and its security. the gentleman from new jersey annced this morning that the committee had scheduled continued hearings on the export phase of this problem beginning june 29. beyond that. the committee on rules reported late yesterday house resolution 595. and i have doubt but that it will be unanimously voted to enable the committee to act continuously and effectively throughout the recess to prevent. if humanly possible. any repetition of the difficulties of last winter. that resolution is as follows: whereas it appears that current and anticipated shortages of petroleum products threaten the present and future ecoy and security of the people of the united states. and whereas such shortages must be considered in the light of the availability of other fuels and energy resources. and whereas. in order to deal effectively with the problem of making petroleum and other fuels available in quantities adequate for an expanding ecoy and for the security of the united states. it is necessary to formulate sound national policies: therefore be it resolved. that it shall be the duty of the commttee on interstate and foreign commerce to formulate and recommend a national fuel policy adequate to meet the needs of the united states in times of peace and war. including recommendations for a national petroleum policy and the integration of such policy with policies relating to other fuels and energy resources except atomic energy. and for such purposes the committee shall study the current and future fuel supply and demand of the united states and shall study methods of encouraging needed developments to assure the availability of fuels adequate for an expanding ecoy and the security of the united states. sic. 2. the commiteee shall make a report  later than the close of the present congress. such report may be made to the clerk of the house if the house is  in session. sec. 3. for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this resolution. the committee or any subcommittee thereof(1) is authorized to sit and act during the present congress at such times and places within or outside the united states. whether or  the house is in session. has adjourned. or has recessed. to hold such hearings. to require by subpena or otherwise the attendance of such witnesses and the production of such books. correspondence. memoranda. papers. and documents. and to take such testimony. as it deems necessary. and subpenas shall be issued over the signature of the chairman of the committee or by any member designated by him. and may be served by any person designated by such chairman or member. (2) may utilize the services. information. facilities. and personnel of the various departments and agencies of the government to the extent that such services. information. facilities. and personnel. in the opinion of such departments and agencies. can be furnished without undue interference with the performance of the work and duties of such departments and agencies. (3) may seek information from such sources and conduct its studies and investigations in such manner as it deems advisable in the interest of a full and correct ascertainment of the facts.
. the house may have before it shortly h. r. 1758. a bill to amend the natural gas act. a rule was requested this morning. in anncing the program for this week last thursday. the majority leader stated if rules were reported on certain bills "they will be called up for consideration." one of the bills was h. r. 1758. this bill comes to the house upon the recommendation of a majority of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. the report.  1140. is  available. because of the complicated nature of the problem involved. and because of the highly controversial features of this proposed legislation. i  only want to call the attention of the members to the fact that they can obtain  a copy of the report. but also wish to provide in convenient form in the record a summary of certain essential background. i believe this will be particularly useful to those members who have  had an opportunity to familiarize themselves with this background. first. i would like to point out that the report contains the miity views of six members of the committee. additional miity views of four more members of the committee. and additional miity views submitted by myself. in the portion of the report which i filed. i called attention to the fact that h. r. 1758 deals only with one problem existing within the field of production. transportation. and distribution of natural gas. and to the fact that there were other interrelated problems in that field as well as similar problems in the field of production. transportation. and distribution of coal. electric power. and petroleum. i referred to the extensive investigation undertaken by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce during the eightieth congress. and i want  to make further reference to that investigation. there were 2.692 pages of evidence submitted during the public hearings. these hearings extended over a period of 39 daysfrom december 12. 1947. to july 28. 1948. during the course of. its efforts. the committee filed six reports. i will refer to them briefly. house report 1270: a preliminary report on the fuel investigation discussing current shortages. the overall petroleum situation. the need for a study. suggestions as to its scope. and recommendations for the creation of a joint committee on fuel policy. house report 1321: a progress- report discussing the action taken by the petroleum industry and various governmental agencies as a result of committee recommendations. house report 1438: petroleum and the european recovery program. this report directs attention to the worldwide petroleum demand and supply situation. the reliance placed upon the middle east as a source of crude supply. and the worldwide expansion of production. processing. and transportation facilities simultaneously required to furnish petroleum products needed. . house report 2342: petroleum prices and profits. this report. based on petroleum company replies to a committee questionnaire. discusses the industry position with respect to current prices and profits. house report 2460: current petroleum outlook. this report. the first submitted under the authority of house resolution 595. passed on june 19. 1948. was intended to inform congress of the near term outlook as it had been presented to the committee. and to bring up to date the committees reporting on its activities in connection with the fuel investigation. house report  2470: mexican petroleum. this is a detailed report of the result of an extensive investigation by the committee in mexico. as well as with experts here from several departments of government and legislative reference service concerning the petroleum resources which might be expected from mexico. it includes at pages 15. 16. and 17. 10 conclusions and recommendations of the committee. including recommendations with reference to consideration of financial assistance to mexico. i think the best statement available as to the purpose. intent. and scope. as well as to the objectives of the investigation. is contained in the following remarks of the gentleman from new jersey on december 12. 1947. when he was rresiding as chairman of the committee. this statement is as follows: i would like to make a short statement preliminary to hearing the first witness with respect to the purpose and intent and scope of the survey or study which the committee has begun. the subject of fuel supply and demand which we shall begin to study this morning is of outstanding importance for the nations ecoy both in times of peacz and in times of war. as a matter of fact. i can think of any problem which looms larger as far as our future prosperity and security are concerned. when i say we are going to begin this study today. i do  mean to imply that this committee is a newcomer in the field of fuels. i refer you to the thorough study made of petroleum in all of its aspects by this committee in more recent years beginning with the seventythird congress under the subcommittee chairmanship of william p. cole. jr.. from maryland. and ending with a final report submitted by chairman lea in december 1946. again. in july 1947. this committee held hearings on petroleum. and the then threatening shortages. the committee is thus well prepared by its past studies for the current broad investigation into the supply and demand picture as it presents itself with respect to our principal sources of energypetroleum. coal. electric power. and natural gas. the committee proposes to divide its study into two parts. namely. the immediate fuel situation and the longrauge situation with respect to each of the aforementioned sources of energy. it will attempt to get as accurate a picture as possible of the nations overall requirements for fuel both in times of war and in times of peace. and the supplies of each fuel which are available to meet these demands. the committee will study each field in all of its aspectsreserves. production. processing. transportation. and distribution. great care will be taken to distinguish in the case of each fuel between the immediate shortrange problems and the longrange problems of supply and demand. particular attention will be given by the committee to the problem of interchangeability of fuels and the production of fuels from alternative sources of supply. in anncing the hearings a few days ago. i stated that the situation with respect to petroleum .vas truly. alarming because of the tremendous increase in the demand for all petroleum products. present and impending petroleum shortages wil undoubtedly constitute a source of harassment for our comfort. worse yet. they may constitute a potential source of danger to our security. however. even this dark cloud has its silver lining. the shortages which we are experiencing in many fields. including petroleum. constitute the living proof of the vitality and resilience of our capitalistic ecoy. in a sense it is truly a tribute to our ecoic rystem that in the face of widespread forecasts of mass unemployment and closeddown plants during the immediate postwar period. we  find it necessary to concern ourselves with the problem of how to secure the energy resources required to operate our expanding ecoy. it is obviously impossible for those who are  members of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce to familiarize themselves with all of these extensive hearings and reports. however. i hope that these remarks will provide all members with an understanding of the very complex and highly important problems which should be thoroughly and carefully considered by the committee with a view to a comprehensive and careful report of its recommendations. with that in mind. i want also to include the following brief excerpt from the miity views which i have submitted to accompany h. r. 1758: to enact h. r. 1758 without relation to its effect upon these other important phases of the natural energy resources would be unrealistic and inconsistent with the committees recognition of the necessity of developing a comprehensive national fuel policy. it might well carry with it very serious results so far as the overall public interest may be concerned in such a national fuel policy. the majority report states: "the resulting confusion and uncertainty (following the interstate case) have been such that this committee feels it is imperative that the clarifying legislation here proposed be enacted into law without delay. "this. i think. should be carefully weighed with the admitted confusion and uncertainty prevailing as to other aspects of any national energy resources policy and the imperative necessity of developing and recommending a sound national fuel policy "i therefore dissent from the recommendation of the majority and urge that the bill be recommitted to the committee so that it may undertake this complete investigation and study with the objective of bringing before the house its recommendations in terms of the overall problem  facing us." in terms of this complete investigation and study. i think members would be interested in a few excerpts from the reports. in house report  1438. february 27. 1948. the following paragraph is significant: while the committees overall study is far from concluded. the committee has progressed sufficiently to be of firm opinion that as far as our national ecoy and our national security are concerned. problem looms larger than the question of the adequacy of our energy resources. inasmuch as petroleum and associated natural gas are major sources of the nations fuel and energyin the last year or two contributing moiethan half of the nations total use while coal relatively has declinedthe demand ahd supply of petroleum is of tremendous concern. in house report  2342. june 14. 1948. i call attention to the following paragraph: the crucial issue with which your committee has been greatly concerned. isare present petroleum prices and resulting high profits in the public interest because. among others. they enable the industry to overcome present shortages and might tend to stimulate more prudent use of petroleum products. or are they against the public interest and should congress. therefore. take some remedial action. your committee is  prepared to give its answer to this question in the present report. the answer to this question is an integral part of a national fuel policy which has yet to be developeda fuel policy whose objective it is to assure the availability at all times of sufficient fuels and energy resources to meet the needs of the united states in times of peace and war. it is the purpose of your committee. after further study and investigation. to make specific recommendations toward the formulation of such national fuel policy. and your committees answer to the question of whether current petroleum prices and profits are in the public interest. will be included in its policy recommendations. this report has a great deal of interesting statistical detail as well as some very informatory replies from 20 of 21 integrated oil companies to whom identical questionnaries had been submitted. in house report  2460. august 13. 1948. i want to emphasize the following two paragraphs: with the need for full and attentive examination of this subject so important to our national wellbeing and to our national defense. and for the formulation of a national fuel policy. your committee long has been impressed. in view of the dramatic rise in demand for petroleum products. natural gas. and electric power. and in view of the continued uncertainty surrounding our international affairs. there is subject more vital or meritorious of immediate and intensive study. it is with this in mind that your committee renewed hearings within the first week after the adjournment on june 19. and will continue to meet throughout the summer and fall in the hope that preliminary if  deftnite conclusions and recommendations to the congress soon may be reached. i also want to quote several paragraphs of the committees observations on longerrange petroleum outlook. they are as follows: the ascertainment of the multitudis facts in the case. the analysis of the interdependence and interplay of myriad factors. the weighing of the validity of the many estimates and assumptions both ecoic and political which must be made. all are matters which the committee has been and is attempting to undertake in its pending examination of the fuel situation looking toward the formulation of a national fuel policy. there are certain specific areas of further examination already emerging of great significance. in the field of increasing our petroleum supplies is the question of the extent to which we have reached the place where we should or must become increasingly dependent upon outside sources for obtaining such supplies. this is a matter fully interwoven with international policies and our nationaldefense position. the indication has been made to the committee that in a period of national emergency our demands for petroleum would exceed our presently available supplies by. 2.000.000 barrels a day. clearly appropriate anticipatory steps must be taken to bring such vast discrepancy into balance. it has been suggested to the committee. on the one hand. that the preservation of an assured supply available in the event of such emergency would well imply the maintenance and building up of domestic production with limited reliance upon foreign sources. it has also been suggested that the same emergency considerations would entail the maximum effort toward importations during critical times for current use. with accompanying storage for emergency periods. the best storage being stated to be right in the ground. it is certain that whatever more or less permanent dependence is placed on imports. such dependence must be with reasonable certainty of their continuation. such dependence requires consideration. as well.. of. the means of transportation. some indication has been given of differing estimates of our tanker position 2 or 3 years hence. the navy is reported to urge construction of some 100 tankers above those planned by the industry. this also means consideration. also. in any event. of a mal. healthy. maintained domestic industry. just for example in this connection. is the possibility that the immediate larger supplies are the result of too closely approaching. or somewhat exceeding. the maximum efficient rates of production. with longrun detriment. in the field of petroleum demand there are also many significant matters. of great importance is the kind of petroleumproduct consumption which we  may be encouraging. and the result in terms of meeting any such 2.000.000barreladay deficiency in total civilian and military demand by curtailment of less civilian demand for military use. previos committee reports have commented cn statements by witnesses of our change from a "gasoline" to a "distillate" ecoy. the growth of home and industrial heating and fuel uses. of diesel power. or jet fuel. and the like. had brought a number of uses of this part of the barrel into much greater play. numerous industry witnesses recently have suggested that the time has arrived when the nation should appreciate that petroleum should  be expected to fuel the entire ecoy. the examination of this suggestion is basic to the formulation of any fuel policy. involved are such matters as the trend in the uses just above mentioned. the possibilities of change in jet fuel specifications to mitigate dependence on the distillates. the efficiency of our internal combustion engines and fuel burners. the dependence of our transportation system on petroleum. and the many other items outlined in our first report of last january as comprising the scope of this investigation. . the complexity of the single problem involved in h. r. 1758 is well illustrated by the fact that the subcommittee on petroleum and federal power held 5 days of public hearings. 2 days of hearings in executive session. 8 days of executive sessions considering the legislation. and the full committee devoted 3 days of executive session to this bill. in further emphasis of the importance the petroleum and federal power subcommittee and the full committee attribute to this problem and to its overall study. it is of importance. i think. to e that the subcommittee held an executive session on march 22. 1949. to receive the testimony of hon. paul g. hoffman. administrator. ecoic cooperation administration. on march 25. 1949. to hear walter levy. petroleum chief. ecoic cooperation administration. on april 14. 1949. to hear col. g. h. vogel. on may 19. 1949. to hear robert e. friedman. acting director. oil and gas division. department of the interior. and on july 12. 1949. to again hear testimony from colonel vogel. finally. i want to call specific attention to house resolution 307. which i have introduced. it is as follows: whereas. in order to deal effectively with the problem of making petroleum and other fuels available in quantities adequate for an expanding ecoy and for the security of the united states. it is necessary to formulate sound national policies. and whereas the committee on interstate and foreign commerce undertook an extensive study of this problem under authority of house resolution 595 of the eightieth congress. second session. but was unable to complete that study: therefore be it resolved. that it shall be the duty of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce to formulate and recommend a national fuel policy adequate to meet the needs of the united.states in times of peace and war. including recommendations for a national petroleum policy and the integration of such policy with policies relating to other fuels and energy resources except atomic energy and for such purposes the committee shall study the current and future fuel supply fan demand of the united states and shall study methods of encouraging needed developments to assure the availability of fuels adequate for an expanding ecoy and the security of the unite states. sec. 2. the committee shall make a report  later than the close of the present congress. such report may be made to the clerk of the house if the house is  in session. sec. 3. for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this resolution. the committee or any subcommittee thereof(1) is authorized to sit and act during the present congress at such times and places within or outside the united states. whether or  the house is in session. has adjourned. or has recessed. to hold such hearings. to require by subpena or otherwise the attendance of such witnesses and the production of such books. correspondence. memoranda. papers. and documents. and to take such testimony. as it deems necessary. and subpenas shall be issued over the signature of the chairman of the committee or by any member designated by him. and may be served by any person designated by such chairman or member. (2) may utilize the services. information. facilities. and personnel of the various departments and agencies of the government to the extent that such services. information. facilities. and personnel. in the opinion of such departments and agencies. can be furnished without undue interference with the performance of the work and duties of such departments and agencies. (3) may seek information from such sources and conduct its studies and investigations in such manner as it dems advisable in the interest of a full and correct ascertainment of the facts. the body of this resolution is identical with house resolution 595 of the eightieth congress. second session. which was adopted unanimously on june 19. 1948. i had assumed that a similar resolution had been introduced during this session. but. in the preparation of my miity views on h. r. 1758. i discovered that there was such resolution pending and i have therefore introduced it and am confident that it will meet with approval.
. i take this time to call the attention of the membership to the fact that there are miity views expressed by a number of members of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. they are found in the report. but i will try to summarize briefly the situation so far as the committee is concerned. six members have filed one set of miity views. four members have filed an additional set. and i have filed an independent statement of my own miity views. in addition to that. i want to say at the outset of this debate. and i think it will  be challenged by any member of the subcommittee or the full committee. that this bill deals with but one single problem in a very large field. it is a very complex problem. it was difficult for the subcommittee and difficult for the full committee to reach any decision. we held 5 days of public hearings. 2 days of hearings in executive session. and then devoted 8 days of hearings in an effort to write any kind of legislation which would be tenable at all. then the full committee was forced to spend two further days before the bill could be reported to this body. i can assure you that you are dealing with one of the most difficult pieces of legislation that has ever been presented to you. even though on the surface it appears to be extremely simple. i hope you will take the time during the 3 hours of general debate to look over the brief statement that i undertook to prepare and place in the record yesterday. giving a summary of what this committee has been undertaking to do over a period of more than a year trying to develop a national fuel policy.
. i think you will be interested in the very first report made. in two brief paragraphs. referring to the four most important energy resourcesfour.  one: petroleum. coal. electriepower. and natural gas. the committee stated that it would study each of these fuels in detail. the committee stated that it would give a complete picture of the anticipated supply and demand. the committee expressed the hope that on the basis of the accumulated information it would be in a position to make recommendations to the congress. with respect to what.  with respect to one segment. one part of this program. but with respect to a national fuel policy. in mapping out this program the committee is aware of the fact that the task it has undertaken is easy one which can be completed in a matter of days or weeks. the cormittee. however. is convinced that a comprehensive study of this nature by the congress is imperative if the congress is to discharge properly its responsibility of formulating legislative policy. those words are significant in terms of the argument that has been made repeatedly here that we do have the function and the obligation to formulate legislative policy. but i say it is a more farreaching proposition than has been presented by any of the proponents of this legislation. it is a job that must be done.  further quoting from the report: as far as our national ecoy and national security are concerned. problem looms larger than the question of the adequacy of our energy resources. i wish you had time to look over the six and a half pages of the scope and outline of the fuel investigation covering each of these four major sources of energy and to see the careful outline as to natural gas. next. let me quote the following interesting and significant paragraph from that report: thus prepared. the committee is again undertaking a general study into fuel supply and demand. the committee desires to emphasize from the outset that its study is definitely designed to be a fuel study or. using aher term. an energyresources study. and  a series of four separate studies into petroleum. natural gas. coal. and electric power. after concerning itself over a period of years with the problems peculiar to each of these four fuels. the committee realizes that each of these four energy resources affects the others. and that it is imperative. in the interest of the nations prosperity and security. for the congress to think. and. if necessary. to act. in terms of a national fuel policy rather than a national petroleum policy. a national coal policy. a national electricpower policy. and a national naturalgas policy. consider this sentence from that report: piecemeal approach to the problem at hand. however. is practical. that was said on january 26. 1948. and it is as true today as it was then. in that sentence the committee stated an indisputable fact. the committee was both farsighted and eminently sound. while the specific reference was to unrelated action by several committees. i submit it applies with even more force to the action  recommended.  i quote a paragraph from the report of february 27. 1948. the progress report: while the committees overall study is far from concluded. the committee has progressed sufficiently to be of firm opinion that as far as our national ecoy and our national security are concerned. problem looms larger than the question of the adequacy of our energy resources. inasmuch as petroleum and associated natural gaslet me emphasize thatpetroleum and associated natural gas are major sources of the nations fuel and energyin the last year or two contributing more than half the nations total use while coal relatively has declinedthe demand and supply of petroleum is of tremendous concern." next from the report dated june 14. 1948: the crucial issue with which your committee has been greatly concerned. isare present petroleum prices and resulting high profits in the public interest because. among others. they enable the industry to overcome present shortages and might tend to stimulate more prudent use of petroleum products. or are they against the public interest and should congress. therefore. take some remedial action. your committee is  prepared to give its answer to this question in the present report. the answer to this question is an integral part of a national fuel policy which has yet to be developeda fuel policy whose objective it is to assure the availability at all times of sufficient fuels and energy resources to meet the needs of the united states in times of peace and war. it is the purpose of your committee. after further study and investigation. to make specific recommendations toward the formulation of such national fuel policy. and your committees answer to the question of whether current petroleum prices and profits are in the public interest. will be included in its policy recommendations. this report contains much interesting statistical detail. as well as very informative replies from 20 of 21 integrated oil companies to whom industrial questionnaires had been submitted. in house report  2460. august 13. 1948. i want to emphasize the following two paragraphs: with the need for full and attentive examination of this subject so important to our national wellbeing and to our national defense. and for the formulation of a national fuel policy. your committee long has been impressed. in view of the dramatic rise in demand for petroleum products. natural gas. and electric power. and in view of the continued uncertainty surrounding our international affairs. there is subject more vital or meritorious of immediate and intensive study. it is with this in mind that your committee renewed hearings within the first week after the adjournment on june 19. and will continue to meet throughout the summer and fall in the hope that preliminary if  definite conclusions and recommendations to the congress soon may be reached. i also want to quote several paragraphs of the committees observations on longerrange petroleum outlook. they are as follows:. the ascertainment of the multitudis facts in the case. the analysis of the interdependence and interplay of myriad factors. the weighing of the validity of the many estimates and assumptions both ecoic and political which must be made. all are matters which the committee has been and is attempting to undertake in its pending examination of the fuel situation looking toward the formulation of a national fuel policy. there are certain specific areas of further examination already emerging of great significance. in the field of increasing our petroleum supplies is the question of the extent to which we have reached the place where we should or must become increasingly dependent upon outside sources for obtaining such supplies. this is a matter fully interwoven with international policies and our nationaldefense position. the indication has been made to the committee that in a period of national emergency our demands for petroleum would exceed our presently available supplies by 2.000.000 barrels a day. clearly appropriate anticipatory steps must be taken to bring such vast discrepancy into balance. it has been suggested to the committee. on the one hand. that the preservation of an assured supply available in the event of such emergency would well imply the maintenance and building up of domestic production with limited reliance upon foreign sources. it has also been suggested that the same emergency considerations would entail the maximum effort toward importations during critical times for current use. with accompanying storage for emergency periods. the best storage being stated to be right in the ground. it is certain that whatever more or less permanent dependence is placed on imports. such dependence must be with reasonable certainty of their continuation. such dependence requires consideration. as well. of the means of transportation. some indication has been given of differing estimates of our tanker position 2 or 3 years hence. the navy is reported to urge construction of some 100 tankers above those planned by the industry. this also means consideration. in any event. of a mal. healthy. maintained domestic industry. just for example in this connection. is the possibility that the immediate larger supplies are the result of too closely approaching. or somewhat exceeding. the maximum efficient rates of production. with longrun detriment. in the field of petroleum demand there are also many significant matters. of great importance is the kind of petroleumproduct consumption which we  may be encouraging. and the result in terms of meeting any such 2.000.000barreladay deficiency in total civilian and military demand by curtailment of less civilian demand for military use. previous committee reports have commented on statements by witnesses of our change from a "gasoline" to a "distillate" ecoy. the growth of home and industrial heating and fuel uses. of diesel power. or jet fuel. and the like. had brought a number of uses of this part of the barrel into much greater play. numerous industry witnesses recently have suggested that the time has arrived when the nation should appreciate that petroleum should  be expected to fuel the entire ecoy. the examination of this suggestion is basic to the formulation of any fuel policy. involved are such matters as the trend in the uses just above mentioned. the possibilities of change in jet fuel specifications to mitigate dependence on the distillates. the efficiency of our internal combustion engines and fuel burners. the dependence of our transportation system on petroleum. and the many other items outlined in our first report of last january as comprising the scope of this investigation. these are all subjects receiving the alert and vigorous attention of your committee.
 that emphasizes my contention i have made repeatedly in miity views that there are other equally important problems involved which we must meet. which we must realize are interwoven. and if you try to freeze and settle but one in this bill here you may jeopardize the possibility of ever establishing a national fuel policy. turn to the problem of imports. here is the independent petroleum association monthly magazine for february of this year:
the gentleman is entirely correct. i think it is our responsibility. and we have repeatedly said it. to go fully and in detail into these four energy resources. coal. petroleum. electric energy. and natural gas. and that involves the synthetics. that involves a multitude of problems. the gentleman ks more about that than i do.
. i move to strike out the last two words. i am very glad that this enlightening debate of the last few minutes has ended on the very e that leads me to plead with you to consider the advisability of sending this bill back to the committee. the majority leader made a very pertinent inquiry as to what this committee was doing about one phase of the matter that lies before us. and the gentleman from arkansas told you that our committee has. been spending more than 3 years in trying to devise something in the nature of recommmendations for this body. the complexity of the situation here would lead any reasonable person to believe that there was an immediacy and urgency about passing this bill which transcended anything else. i tell you that there is something much more important and something much more urgent in terms of a sound domestic ecoy. yes. in terms of our national security. and that is that you give our committee the right to carry out the obligation of bringing in recommendations that cover the four fuels: petroleum. coal. electric power. and natural gas. we undertook to make recommendations looking toward the formulation of a national fuel policy. we have made great progress toward that objective. yet you are being asked to legislate this aftern. on one problem in one field. listen to what this committee said unanimously: the committee desires to emphasize from the outset that its study is definitely designed to be a fuel study or. using aher term. an energyresources study. and  a series of four separate studies into petroleum. natural gas. coal. and electric power. after concerning itself over a period of years with the problems peculiar to each of these four fuels. the committee realizes that each of these four energy resources affects the others. and that it is imperative in the interest of the nations prosperity and security. for the congress to think. and. if necessary. to act. in terms of a national fuel policy rather than a national petroleum policy. a national coal policy. a national electricpower policy. and a national naturalgas policy. if you pass this bill this aftern. matter what the merits may beand i concede that the proponents of the bill are entirely sincere. they urge a very proper principle upon youthat if we are to legislate. if we are going to act in a field in. which others have sought to determine legislative policy. whether it be the supreme court in the panhandle case. which has  said there is jurisdiction over naturalgas reserves. or whether it is the interstate case. or whether it is the fpc. or whoever it may be. it is our responsibility to acti say to you that you will  have your full opportunity to act in your individual responsibility in terms of the creation of a sound. comprehensive fuel policy. which is of tremendous importance to this country. whether we are at peace or whether we are at war. the majority recognizes this in its own report. it says: the entire field of petroleum policy is  undergoing scrutiny by the committee in its continuing fuel investigation directed toward recommendationsfor what. a naturalgas policy. a naturalgas individual situation. some petroleum situation. or a national fuel policy. this committee has been trying to develop that. here are the hearings in docket  g580 of the federal power commission. here are the committee hearings and its six reports. i can assure you that without a single exception. in my opinion. your committee does want to discharge this responsibility. but i differ with my friend. and say that if this aftern you freeze a situation into the naturalgas picture which. as we have said in our reports. covers a field with its interrelated and interwoven parts. you can make it utterly impossible for us to make a recommendation of a national fuel policy. the only chance you will have. in my opinion. this aftern to preserve your own rights to see that that is done in the interest of our ecoy and our security. is to support the motion. which. if i am recognized for that purpose. i shall make. it will be a simple motion to recommit. so the committee can complete its effort to help you formulate a national fuel policy of which we. the industries involved. and the nation as a whole can be proud. it can and should be an entirely american policy directed toward the protection of a sound. healthy domestic industry. toward a vigorous domestic ecoy operating in fairness and in consideration of the american public. and toward our national security. because i believe this can and must be done. i hope we will  make the mistake of jeopardizing the possibilities by freezing one situation today. by doing something that we may find can be undone. regardless of its effect on the development of a sound national policy. that is my reason for seeking to offer the motion. i hope you will support it.
the gentleman from new jersey on january 25 introduced a resolution. a rather comprehensive resolution. intended to recommend a national fuel policy. being a member of the subcommittee under the able chairmanship of the gentleman from arkansas . i would like to ask at this time if the inquiry will be extended to include possibly the development of a national fuel policy.
 but which have the virtue of continuing to completion an effort undertaken by the committee on interstate and foreign commerce during the eightieth congress. i think the members of this committee. irrespective of party. will concede that that study and the extensive hearings were conducted without partisanship and that the committee and its staff developed a wealth of factual information. opinions. and advice from government officials. industry. and the consuming public. in my judgment. it would be a tragedy to overlook the very great importance of developing a nationalfuel policy at the earliest possible moment. i believe this to be important  only to our domestic ecoy. but also to our national security. i think many of you will recall the extensive debate in the house on august 4 when we were considering h. r. 1758. the bill to amend the natural gas act. for your convenience i refer to the record of that date. beginning at page 10777. and to the record of friday. august 5. beginning at page 10845. it is  my purpose  to burden the record with a repetition of much of what i said there but i do want to recall that i characterized the legislation as being of a highly controversial nature. pointed out the sincere differences of opinion existing among the members of the committee who. after long and conscientious consideration of the proposal were confronted with the aolous situation where the committee was divided 14 to 7. but with a full membership of 28. 11 .filed formal miity views. i do want to recall to your attention my basic argument that the excellent investigation and study of our fuel resources should be continued with the firm objective of bringing before the house the committees recommendations in terms of the overall problem then facing us. i call to your attention the excellent statement made by the gentleman from new jersey . on december 12. 1947. when he opened the first of these hearings. and to quote one sentence: particular attention will be given by the committee to the problem of interchangeability of fuels and the production of fuels from alternative sources of supply. may i remind you that the committee hearings extended over a period of 39 days. that 2692 pages of evidence were submitted. that the subcommittee on petroleum and federal power then continued this study of other phases of this problem. including an extensive study of petroleum in mexico. in the congressional record. volume 95. part 8. page 10847. you will find a list and description of the six important reports filed by this committee from january 26. 1948. to december 31. 1948. may i emphasize that in the first report the committee referred to the four most important energy resources. petroleum. coal. electric power. and natural gas and stated it would study each of these fuels in detail. it emphasized that this was to be an energy resources study and  a series of the four separate studies of coal. electric power. petroleum. and natural gas. let me quote this sentence: after concerning itself over a period of years with the problems peculiar to each of these four fuels. the committee. realizes that each of these four energy resources affects the others. and that it is imperative. in the interest of the nations prosperity and security. for the congress to think. and. if necessary. to act. in terms of a national fuel policy rather than a national petroleum policy. a national coal policy. and a national naturalgas policy. let me emphasize aher sentence: piecemeal approach to the problem at hand. however. is practical. there are many other paragraphs from those reports quoted in my remarks and i hope my colleagues may take the trouble to glance over the record of that date. then let me quote from the majority report on the bill we were then considering: the entire field of petroleum policy is  undergoing scrutiny by the committee in its continuing fuel investigation directed toward recommendations forthese words are important. because they are the words of the majority.  asking you for piecemeal action in the face of these six committee reports stating the necessity of solving this overall problem.  asking you to freeze something that may make that a complete impossibilitytoward recommendations for a national fuel policy. i believed then and i believe  that we can make piecemeal studies and develop anything like a satisfactory national federal policy. for the information of my colleagues may i include a copy of h. r. 466 which i filed on february 9. it differs slightly from the original resolution which the gentleman from new jersey . also refiled.. those differences are relatively unimportant. the objectives are identical. i hope there will be others who feel as i do that this is a subject which needs to be done thoroughly and promptly. i will welcome their advice and cooperation in trying to bring such a study into being. house resolution 466 is as follows: house resolution 466 whereas in order to achieve and maintain supplies of petroleum and other fuels available in quantities adequate for an expanding ecoy and for the security of the united states. it is necessary to formulate sound national policies: therefore be it resolved. that it shall be the duty of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce to formulate and recommend a national fuel policy adequate to meet the needs of the united states in times of peace and war. including recommendations for a national petroleum policy and the integration of such policy with policies relating to other fuels and energy resources except atomic energy. and for such purposes. the committee shall study the current and future fuel supply and demand of the united states and shall study methods of encouraging needed developments to assure the availability of fuels adequate for all expanding ecoy and the security of the united states. sec. 2. the committee shall make a report  later than the close of the present congress. such report may be made to the clerk of the house if the house is  in session. sec. 3. for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this resolution. the committee or any subcommittee thereof(1) is authorized to sit and act during the present congress at such times and places within or outside the united states. whether or  the house is in session. has adjourned. or has recessed. to hold such hearings. to require by subpena or otherwise the attendance of such witnesses and the production of such books. correspondence. memoranda. papers. and documents. and to take such testimony. as it deems necessary. and subpenas shall be issued over the signature of the chairman of the committee or by any member designated by him. and may be served by any person designated by such .chairman or member. (2) may utilize the services. information. facilities. and personnel of the various departments and agencies of the government to the extent that such services. information. facilities. and personnel. in the opinion of such departments and agencies. can be furnished without undue interference with the performance of the work and duties of such departments and agencies. (3) may seek information from such sources and conduct its studies and investigations in such manner as it deems advisable in the interest of a full and correct ascertainment of the facts.
 will have one of the most difficult decisions he has ever had before him. i understand he has signed the peanutcotton bill this aftern. that will be bad egh when the consumers get the bill for that. but it will truly be peanuts compared to the blackjacking they will get if he approves this bill. i want to call your attention to a witness i think will  be disputed by any proponent of this bill. the wall street journal. the wall street journal recently declared that the panhandle east pipe line cothat is going into new england. into new york. new jersey. and all the theast and into the midwest-"is going to ask for an increase of between 5 and 6 cents per thousand cubic feet. based on the companys 1948 sales for resale deliveries. this will mean approximately $8.000.000 a year." - e of us think that they are going to absorb that. they are  in the business of philanthropy. you k. and i k that the 40.000.000 consumers of this natural gas in our communities are going to be made to pay the bill. to vote for this rule this aftern is a vote to increase the gas bill of each and every consumer in the country. that is the only interpretation they are going to put on such a vote and they will be eternally right. the cost of field gas has gone up and  down. from 1944. when it was 4.3 cents per thousand cubic feet. in the first 2 months of 1950 the average- of new contracts was 9.9 cents. do you think that 100percent increase is going to be absorbed by these 35 giants in this field. do  be under any illusions. the people who want this are the people who are making generous profits  and are going to further profit emously by it. they are going to raid the pocketbooks of the american consumers. do  make any mistake about it. a vote for the rule will clear the way for that outrageous raid. you can only join in that with your eyes wide open fully conscious of the consequences.
. the following is the text of a release of yesterday from the national petroleum council covering this development: preliminary steps toward meeting a military and. civilian need for an additional 1.000oo barrels. daily of petroleum products were taken today when walter s. hallanan. chairman of the national petroleum council. annced the appointment of a committee on capital and materials requirements for increasing availability of petroleum products. the. action was taken after the department of the interior informed the national fetro leum council that preliminary siudtir indicated that in the event ot war there would be a sharp increase tn the demand. for petroleumn products to meet military and. essential requirements which would require large quantities of capital and materials. hallanan said: "this assignment bears- a close and immediate relationshfp tothe problems o nationam defense. trtainly this. is one of the most important ssi~mnts that the national petrolemm council has been called upon to undertake." he added that: "the council at its meeting in. washington. d. c.. january 29. unanimously approved the government% reqjuest. i have today appointed. dr. robert e. wilson. ethrman of the board of standard oil co. (indfana). chicago. il.. as chairman of the commit ee. other members of the committee as appointed today are: h. t. ashton. western petroleum refaners. association. st. lous howard a. cowden. consumers cooperative association. kansaw city. mo.. fayette b. dow. national petroleum association. washington. j. frank drake. gulf oil corp.. pittsburgh. it. 0. foils.. standard oil co. of caitfornia. san prancaco. jake- l. hamon. midcbnt nent oil & gas association. dallas. n. a. hardey. shreveport. la.. eugene holman. standard oil co. (new jersey). new york. a. jacobvsen. amerada petroleum corp.. new york. b. erewster jennings. socanyvacuum oi co. inc.. new york. j. paul jones. national stripper well association. bradford. pa.. w. alt= jones. cities. service co.. new yorz.: a. c. mattel. houlu oil corp.. san francisco. l. f mccollum. (lntinenta oil co.. houston. joseph e. pogue. chase national rbank new york frank m. porter. amer ia petroleum institute. new york. m. h_ robimeau. the frontier refining co.. denver. w. s. s. rodgers. the texas co.. new york. roland v. eodman. andersonprichard oil corp.. oklahoma city. p.. spencer. sinclair oil corp... yew york. j.. ed warren. independent petroleum association of america. midland. teax.. w. k. warren. warren petroleum corp.. tulsa. and l. s. wescoat. the pure oi co.. chicago following is the text of house resolution 107: whereas. in order to achieve and maintain supplies of petroleum and other fuels available in quantities adcquate for an expanding ecoy and for the security of the united states. and for the duration of the current mobilization period. it is necessary to formulate sound national policies: therefore be it resolved. that it shall be the duty of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce to formulate and recommend a national fuel policy adequate to meet the needs of the united states in times of peace and war. and for the duration of the current mobilization period. including recomnendations for a national petroleum policy and the integration of such policy with policies relating to other fuels and energy resources except atomic energy. and for such purposes the committee shall study the current and future fuel supply and demand of the united states and shall study methods of encouraging needed developments to assure the avatiability of fuels adequate for an expanding ecoy and the security of the united states. sec. 2. the committee shall make a report  later than the close of the present congress. such report may be made to the clerk of the house if the. house is riot in session. sac. a.. for the purpose of carrying out the provision of this resolution. the committee or any subcommittee thereof(1) is authorized to sit and act during the present congress at sucir times and places within or outside the. united states. whether or  the house i& in session. has adjourned. or has recessed. to hold such hearings. to require by subpena or otherwise the attendance of such wtnesses and the productiom of such booa. correspondence. memoranda. papers. and documents. and to take such testimony. as it deems necessary. and subpenas shall be issued over the signature of the chairman of the committee or by any member designated by him. and may be served by any person designated by suc chairman or member. (2) may utilize the services. information. facilities. and personnel of the various departments and agencies of the government to the extent that such services. information. facilities. and personnel. in the opintor of such departtments and ageneies. car be furnished without u ue interference with the performance of the work and duties of such departments and agencies. and (3) may seek information from such. sources and conduct its studies and investigattons in such manner as it deems advisable in the interest of a full and correct ascertainment of the facts.
. i shall support the amendment offered by the gentleman from michigan and shall oppose the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia . arguments have been advanced that this matter creates or would create discrimination against certain areas in the south. the undeniable fact is that there are areas in the th where there has been and is very considerable difficulty resulting in loss of employment and failure to utilize existing plants and equipment. only recently the general electric co. filed a request for a $25.000.000 taxamortization certificate in order to build a new transformer plant in rome. ga.. with the view to transferring its work on transformers from its present location in pittsfield. mass.. to georgia. i do  think anyone questions the right of the general electric co. to establish plants wherever it chooses. but i seriously question whether it was ever intended that the federal government should permit the taxamortization program to be utilized in financing the building of new facilities where there are existing facilities available and adequately trained and experienced personnel to operate them. i am sure that one could examine the facts with reference to the difficulties being experienced in certain areas in the thern part 3f the country without reaching the conclusion that it is  discriminating against any other area for the government. in its procurement policies. to attempt to allot contracts on an equitable basis.
 can administer that program in the national interest as an integral part of our national foreign policy. . 2. the council also opposes the specific provisions of section 13 of the simpson bill which would impose certain damaging restrictions on the import of petroleum products and fuel oil. it opposes these oilquota provisions on the ground that they are contrary to the. national interest. that they involve a threat to our national security. and that they deprive the whole atlantic seaboard and new england of an important source of fuel on which it  relies.
 truman and in the present administrations budget an appropriation of $875.000 is recommended. this would bring the project to about 14 percent completion. an important result of the completion of this third unit will be flood protection to the spragu3 electric co. plant and to the thern berkshire gas co.. which supplies  only the sprague electric co. but the communities of th adams and williamstown with electricity and gas. the corps of engineers will be able to advise the committee as to the nature of the manufacturing done by the sprague electric co. in connection with vital defense work. this company is the largest employer in th adams and one of the nations most important producers in this field. upon completion of the entire project protection will be given to 15 industries. including the sprague electric co. and the thern berkshire gas co.. 570 commercial establishments. 580 residences. and many public buildings. roads. bridges. and utilities. i understand this involves about 85 percent of the industrial and commercial section and about 25 percent of the residential section of the entire city. it should be ed further that the commonwealth of massachusetts recognized the importance of these projects by appropriating $2 million to be used in connection with incidental work on bridges. roads. utilities. and for land damage. and that berkshire county and the 2 communities have gone to considerable expense largely in providing temporary measures of relief. i call your attention to the fact that there is  a total federal investment in these 2 projects of $2.027.000. as you gentlemen k. it would  only be a source of additional expense if the work on the projects can be continued but there would be also the continuing risk to the existing construction in the event of aher flood. i might add that a few weeks ago the communities did experience high water and i am certain that the floodcontrol works which have been constructed contributed considerably to minimizing its effect. cons2equently. i urge approval of the amounts recommended and want to thank members of this committee for the consideration they have given to us in the matter.
. i would like to speak on behalf of the consumer of residual fuel oil on the eastern seaboard. since this bill provides for limitations on the importation of petroleum with a 5percent limit on heavy residual fuel oil. it would appear
i think i still have the floor under the reservation of objection. i might point out and emphasize the purpose of the bill by reading it: for the purposes of this bill. electric energy shall be held to be transmitted in interstate commerce if transmitted from any state and consumed at any point outside thereof. in my judgment. those words "at any point outside thereof" certainly clearly relate to the transmission to canada. transmission to mexico. or if at some future time television or some other unkn means of power transmission develops so it would be transmitted even to central and south america. that it would be properly a subject matter for the federal power commission and  within the jurisdiction of the state of texas. florida. louisiana. or some other state.
the gentleman might be interested. if he has  seen the figures. to k that the latest official information indicates that the el paso natural gas co. is the eighth largest in holdings of reserves. it holds 500 million cubic feet of gas. and that the panhandle eastern is the 14th largest and holds 3 billion 500 million cubic feet.
ial veto which followed is a matter of opinion. but it can be disputed that it did  end the determined drive for exemption from regulation. it would be folly to assume that the house action this week would have any such effect. i do  believe that any useful purpose would be served by reviewing the arguments pro and con. they are set out fully in the majority and miity reports of the house committee and in the debate in the house on july 28. which will be supplemented by any debate in the other body where the bill is considered there. it was finally and conclusively shelved for this year today. just as was predicted frequently during the house debate. in the light of this. and particularly of the repeated statements during the house debate that adequate information was  available. it seems more regrettable  than it did before the vote on july 28 that the members of the house were  given the benefit of the results of the harris resolution. amended by the wolverton resolution. for an investigation of the facts. therefore. two immediate courses of action seem to be vitally important. first. members of the house can make a most important contribution toward an ultimate and sound solution of this vexing and complex problem by securing the fullest possible reliable information as to the situation in their respective areas. i believe that such information would be welcomed by the house committee. irrespective of the fate of the harriswolverton resolutions at the hands of those who control such matters. second. i hope every member of the house will see to it that any action directed toward increasing the prices of natural gas to the users of such fuel in his area is examined as fully as possible and the results reported promptly to the house committee. again. i feel confident that such information would be welcomed by that committee. i am certain that the vast majority of americans want and will demand a fair. open. and intelligible solution of this problem by congress. that can be brought about unless all the available and pertinent facts are presented. certainly the industry has a very real obligation to make that possible.
. over the weekend the natural gas industry seems to have perfected its latest weapon in its drive to free itself from federal regulation. its attack upon the washington gas light co. is transparent. the fact that the local company has joined many other distributing companies in opposing passage of the harrisfulbright bill must be very disturbing. so. under the guise of requiring disclosure to the consumers of natural gas. we have the spectacle of punishment for expressing an honest opinion as to merits of legislation proposed to congress. but the principle of disclosure is one most people can support. i happen to believe that it can and will be extended. i k of valid reason why purchasers of gasoline. grease. fuel oils or any other petroleum product should  have the right to k where their dollars and cents go as much as the consumers of natural gas. at this time. when three increases in the cost of fuel oil already have been put into effect. there is more reason for full disclosure than in the case of natural gas. i regret that the suggested disclosure of the elements of cost of natural gas did  include the amount of subsidy by the federal government in the form of depletion allowances. writing off exploration expenses. rapid amortization of plant facilities and the like. i have drafted a bill which covers this as to gasoline and petroleum products. i assume that the sponsors of the disclosure principle in the case of natural gas will promptly offer amendments to their bills to cover this. possibly other major elements of cost should be specified. the text of the bill i have filed in the house today follows: h. r. 8358 a bill to provide that each person selling gasoline or other petroleum products shall make full disclosure to the purchasers with respect to the costs. profits. and federal subsidies properly allocable to such products be it enacted. etc.. that this act may be cited as the "gasoline and petroleum products full disclosure act of 1956."
. yesterday i outlined the record before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. the rules committee. and here on the floor as to the bill to exempt natural gas from regulation by the federal power commission. i stated that it  seemed more than likely that the bill will go to conference and that. because of the probability that we will have aher opportunity to pass judgment on it. i believed the matter was worthy of renewed consideration by all of us. . on july 19. 1955. i placed in the appendix of the daily record. page a5299. a statement that. according to the uncontradicted evidence before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. there were slightly over 211.1 trillion cubic feet of kn recoverable reserves of natural gas in this country at the end of 1954 and that the best information i could secure at that time showed that 30 of the largest and most prosperous oil and gas companies controlled approximately 63 percent of these reserves. i summarized the information i had as to these companies and their kn gas reserves stated in trillion cubic feet as follows: 1. humble -------------------------- 18.0 2. phillips -------------------------- 17.9 3. texaco --------------------------- 10.5 4. standard of indiana ---------------9.9 5. soconyvacuum ------------------- 7.5 6. shell ------------------------------ 7.0 7. cities service ----------------- 6.3 8. el paso natural gas co ------------4. 5 9. standard of california -------------4 . 0 10. gulf ---------------------------- 4.0 11. continental ----------------------- 3.8 12. sun ------------------------------ 3.8 13. pure oil co ------------------ 3.7 14. panhandle eastern -----------------3.5 15. colorado interstate ----------------3.3 16. chicago corp ---------------------- 2.5 17. skelly ----------------------------- 2.4 18. atlantic --------------------------- 2.2 19. ohio oil ------------------------- 2.1 20. republic natural ------------------2.1 21. cities service gas co -------------- 2.0 22. tidewater association -------------- 1.8 23. sinclair ---------------------------1.7 24. union oil ------------------------ 1.6 25. superior ------------------- 1.5 26. sunray ---------------------------- 1.5 27. natural gas pipeline --------------. 15 28. southern production -------------- 1.3 29. pan american petroleum and transportation ---------------- 1.3 30. arkansaslouisiana ----------------1.1 of itself. this decisive control of so much of the nations natural gas reserves might mean little to the average person. but considered in the light of other important factors. which i intend to discuss soon. it is most significant. these 30 giants are among the most vocal and insistent of those who demand that the phillips case of the supreme court of the united states must be overruled and that they must be freed from any federal regulation. why. one disputes the fact that state has the constitutional power to regulate the wholesale rates of natural gas moving in interstate commerce. therefore. if the phillips case can be overruled by this bill. there can be and there will  be any effective regulation at the input end by any governmental body. if this bill becomes law. the interests of over 25 million gas consumers will be exclusively in the hands of those who own and control the reserves and can dictate prices without regard to anything but their own interests. is it  crystal clear why such a powerful group is determined to free itself from the possibility of any effective regulation by the federal power commission. they protest piously in their extensive advertising and their expensive propaganda that they have desire or intention of raising their prices. i shall shortly discuss the record as to that even at this time while the phillips case is still law. confining myself to the significance of this dominant control of natural gas reserves and of the inevitable pressures to increase their value. what are the facts. as a matter of simple arithmetic. an increase of 1 cent in the value of the nations reserves would mean a writeup of over $2 billion. every additional increase of 1 cent would add aher writeup of at least $2 billion. how would that value be realized. of necessity. it could only be through increasing the bills of the ultimate consumers. let us take the individual cases of those who own the 10 largest amounts of reserves. the additional value of every cent of increase to them would be as follows: i. humble ------------------$180. 000.000 2. phillips -------------------179.000.000 3. texaco ------------------- 105.000. 000 4. standard of indiana ------- 99. 000. 000 5. soconyvacuum ---------- 75. 000. 000 6. shell ---------------------70. 000. 000 7. cities service ------------- 63.000.000 8. el paso natural gas co.__ 45.000. 000 9. standard of california__- 40.000. 000 10. gulf --------------------- 40.000.000 so the 10 largest of these gas and oil companies have at stake an irreducible minimum of $896 million. if they can increase the value of their reserves by only 1 cent. the obvious temptation in an additional increase in value of nearly a billion dollars for each additional cent is quite understandable. but how it can be explained in terms of the interests of over 25 million natural gas consumers or in terms of the public interest remains to be demonstrated. that is but one side of the coin. the other is the means by which this added increase in values could be taken from the ultimate consumers. the last rate of use i have been able to secure is that of 1953. i expect to have the 1954 rate soon and i shall submit it when i receive it. on the basis of the 1953 rate of use. an increase of 1 cent per thousand cubic feet to the consumers would amount to $53.766.700 each year. an increase of a nickel would amount to $107.533.000 annually. and an increase of a dime would amount to $537.c99.000 annually. this explains the seemingly plausible argument that enacting this bill into law would amount to a few dimes. or a few quarters. or at most a few dollars yearly to the average consumer. what the proponents hope will be overlooked is that there are  over 25 million of these consumers with millions more looking for natural gas. but one can possibly overlook the gold mine the holders of these reserves see and are driving for through the repeal of the supreme court decision.
. i have * just been handed a release from the federal power commission entitled "news digest." from washington. dated thursday. january 12. 1956. i shall read only a portion of the last paragraph on the first page. but anyone who wishes to see the full quotation may. of course. obtain it from the federal power commission: iocc executive unit discusses gas legislation (tulsa world. january 10). oklahoma city: "the executive committee of the interstate oil compact commission met here monday and discussed ways of supporting a bill * * * to take federal price controls off natural gas at the wellhead. the committee. with new mexico gov. john f. simms as chairman. took formal action. however. in support of the fulbrightharris bill * * *." i could be amazed if the interstate oil compact commission should think that it has any power or right. as an official group. to take any position on this legislation. for some time i have been personally critical of certain of the activities of this commission as have others. i was glad that last year an amendment was adopted by this house to the basic law as i recall it unanimously. which went into effect this last fall. and which had as its purpose to see to it that the commission carries out the original objective of interstate compact legislation. i think it is extremely unfortunate that any such commission should see fit. if it has done so. to gather as an official unit to try to exert influence on legislation pending before this house or elsewhere. i hope that they will correct that position promptly if it is one that they have taken. let me make it clear beyond any question that i am  criticizing the right of any individual to express any opinion or to take any action he chooses as to any legislation pending in congress or proposed to congress. neither am i questioning the right of any such individual joining with other individuals in a group for such purposes. except as a member of this executive committee. i am concerned with the fact. if this report is accurate. that this executive committee should be of the opinion that it could meet with propriety to discuss "ways of supporting a bill to take federal price controls off natural gas at the wellhead." it is interesting to e the statement that the committee "took formal action." but it would have been far more interesting to k whether this was because the committee recognized finally the clear mandate of article v of the interstate oil compact to which the consent of congress has been given eight times since august 1935. and which i  quote:
. i had intended to submit further factual information this aftern with reference to the proposal to exempt natural gas from federal regulations because some of it has  become available. i shall  do so at this time because of the editorial which appeared in this mornings edition of the new york times. that editorial is such a concise and powerful argument against this proposal that i want to take this means of making it widely available to all who are interested in the matter and who may wish to make use of it. the editorial is as follows:
. it seems more than probable that -this house will have aher opportunity to exercise its judgment on the proposal to exempt producers of natural gas from federal regulation. in fact. it seems quite unlikely that the proposal can become law unless this house acts again. therefore. i believe it will be material to any such further consideration of the proposal for us to have readily accessible and before us certain information bearing upon the major issue of exemption. before presenting that information. i want to summarize briefly the most significant votes in committees and on this floor as to this proposal. on june 7. 1955. a tie vote in the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce killed the bill temporarily. on june 8. 1955. this vote was reconsidered and the bill was approved by a vote of 16 to 15. the bill was reported on june 28. it was  until july 26 that the rules committee granted a rule for the consideration of the bill. the vote was 6 to 5. one member of that committee did  vote. the bill was debated and passed on july 28. a motion to recommit the bill lost by a vote of 203 to 210. february i the vote on final passage was 209 to 203. this vote was on july 28. congress adjourned the following tuesday. during the debate here references were made to the producers who would be benefited by the exemption proposal. it was stated that it had been estimated that 5.000 to 6.000 independent natural gas producers were involved. i believe that in considering this proposal it is most important that we should have as a basis as firm kledge as is available as to the size and scope of the operations of those who seek such an exemption by congressional action. therefore. i requested the legislative reference service to compile some of the data available to the public as to several points in such sources as moodys and standard and poors. unfortunately. it is  complete. i k of sources through which it could be completed except from the companies involved. i hope that they will provide the full information. as well as any corrections they believe should be made. before this proposal comes before us again. in any event. i submit the tables as they have been prepared by a competent. impartial and objective source. i believe they will be of assistance to us. table i is the list of companies which the following tables will treat in detail. that table is based upon certain data i volume 101. part 8. page 10869 as the most accurate i could obtain at that time. the first figure represents that data. the second figure is the latest data available to me. it will be ed that the total estimated gas reserves in column 1 is 134.300.000.000.000 cubic feet. while the total in column 2 is 149.100.000.000.000 cubic feet. according to the 1555 issue of gas facts. a statistical publication of the american gas association. the total proven recoverable reserves of natural gas in this country at the end of 1954 was 211.710.732.000 cubic feettable 5. page table i.-estimated gas reserves of principal producers [trillions of cubic feet) former latest 1. humble oil & refining ------- 18.0 16.0 2. phillips petroleum ------------ 17.9 17.9 3. the texas co ----------------- 10.5 11.1 4. standard oil of indiana ------- 9.9 11.4 5. socony mobil oil ------------- 7.5 7.8 6. shell oil ---------------------- 7.0 7.0 7. cities service ----------------- 6.3 6. 3 8. el paso natural gas ---------- 4.5 4. 5 9. standard oil of california ----- 4.0 4.5 10. gulf oil ---------------------- 4.0 4.0 11. continental oil --------------- 3.8 2.2 12. sun oil ---------------------3.8 3.9 13. ]lure oil .--------------------- 3.7 3.7 14. panhandle eastern pipe line.. 3.5 11.5 15. colorado interstate gas ------- 3. 3 5.6 16. chicago corp ---------------- 2. 5 1.5 17. skelly oil .------------------ 2. 4 2.3 18. atlantic refining- ------------- 2.2 2. 2 19. ohio oil ---------------------- 2.1 2.0 20. republic natural gas --------- 2.1 2.1 21. cities service gas ------------- 2.0 2.0 22. tidewater associated oil ------ 1.8 2.2 23. sinclair oil- ----------------- 1.7 1.7 24. union oil of california -------- 1.6 2.4 25. superior oil ------------------- 1.5 1.5 26. sunray mideontinent oil ----- 1.5 1.9 27. natural gas pipeline ---------- 1.5 4.2 28. southern production ---------- 1.3 1.2 29. pan american petroleum----- 1.3 1.3 30. arkansasloulsiana gas ------- 1.1 3. 2 table ii contains brief es about each of these companies to identify their legal status. including nature of incorporation: table ii
. since the hearings on the proposed amendments to the natural gas act began on may 7. and particularly since july 19. when h. r. 8525 was reported by the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce by a vote of 15 to 13. i have been asked numerous questions by many of my colleagues. both as to the bill and as to the objections to it. these questions have increased since the rules committee reported a rule for the consideration of the bill. . i realize the tremendous and increasing responsibilities upon all members of the house as any session draws to its conclusion. i also realize how difficult it is for any of us to obtain and study carefully the committee reports on the many legislative proposals which come to us for our decision in the closing days of a session. i have also been receiving in recent days an increasing number of requests for copies of the miity report and i assume that others of my colleagues are receiving similar requests. for these reasons. and particularly to make the brief miity report readily accessible to all in a convenient form. under permission i obtained in the house this aftern. i am including here that miity report:
 imay say that under the law as it  stands there is a section. kn as section 14. which provides that if any agencies. of the united states sell gasoline they shall pay the same tax. the amendment referred to by the senator from iowa is merely for the purpose of maklng the law conform to any increase in thetax that may be made. i was  advised in the hearings that any such sales are  being made. but i understand that some such sales have been made in the past." whereby the government actually did retail some gasoline. and section .14 was enacted to make sure that when the government retailed gasoline it was iequired to collect the same district tax as appliedto other retail sales. the amendment merely continues the present iaw¢ so as to.include the proposed increase in the tax.
. i wish to pay tribute to the energy and efficiency with which the senator from tennessee has been pressing for the consideration of the appropriation bills during recent weeks. both as chairman of the subcommittee and acting chairman of the full committee. he has moved the appropriation bills along with the utmost speed. i think that the particular item under consideration is illustrative of the necessity of sending it to conference in order that it may have the consideration which it fully deserves and did  fully obtain during consideration of the bill by the cmmittee.
 of the local power company. who says: it is again claimed by the bureau that the steam plant is required to "make firm" the output of the projects hydro plants. this is  so. the pacific gas & electric co.that is the local companyhas offered and continue to offer to pay for all hydroelectric power generated on the project a price equal to the value it would have if "firmed" by an independent steam plant. we have further offered and continue to offer to "make firm" any power which the bureau may sell to public agencies and to do this at a cost greater than if such power were made firm by a project steam plant.
i think . turning to the next paragraph on page 864 of the hearings. dealing with the need for the transmission line. i read again from the president of the local power company as follows: it is also claimed that the proposed transmission system is required in order to bring the projects power output into the market and to make it available for pumping plants required in the delta division of the project. tlis likewise is  so. the company has offered and continues to offer to buy all of the projects hydroelectric power at the companys shasta substation. 25 miles below shasta dam. it has also offered to supply the projects pumping plants on an exchange basis with power from the companys transmission system. the company to be paid in power delivered to it at its shasta substation. the pumping plants would be assured of a power supply at all times. irrespective of the operation of the projects power plants. the steam plant and transmission system are therefore  only unnecessary. but appropriations for their construction would be a waste of public funds. the third point to which i wish to refer in the record is the question of the need of this income by the government project. i read the following brief paragraph from the testimony: the company is willing to make a longterm agreement or a shortterm agreement for all hydroelectric power produced on the project. whichever the bureau may deem to be to its best ecoic advantage. it is also willing to provide for the release from time to time of such quantities of power as the bureau may wish to use itself or to sell to other buyers. including public agencies. as provided for in the reclamation law. finally. on the question of the need for service in the area. i quote the following paragraph: the territory in which the projects hydroelectric energy must be used is already completely served by this company. the companys system is the natural outlet for the projects hydroelectric energy. in fact it is the only outlet. unless wasteful duplicating lines and other facilities are constructed in an endeavor to take away existing consumers or to compete with the company for new customers.
as i understand the situationand the senator from california will correct me if i am mistakenthe pacific gas & electric co. already has a substantial mooly in that area. this would merely mean the continuance of its existing situation. with additional sources of supply. if the power were supplied directly by the government. there would be. duplication of the existing supply system.
the senator from california has stated that the federal government should provide the sum of $75.000.000. or whatever it may be. in order to establish a competitive agent in the locality under consideration. and enable the government perhaps to sell the power more cheaply to the people of california. and that then the people of california. the users of the power. would pay a return on private capital which had been invested in order to serve them. in most places throughout the country it is true. and properly so. that the consumers of electric power pay a fair return upon the capital which has been invested for their use. and do so under the regulation of the local railroad or power commission. or wihatever the name of the agency of that character may be. the local company must pay* taxes. and so forth. what seems extraordinary to me is that we are being asked to take out of the united states treasury the sum of $75.000.000 and invest it in california where the users may obtain electric power more cheaply than they could obtain it from private capital invested in the mal and usual manner. i do  believe that to be the best public policy.
. i rise only to emphasize one point. following the questions put to the senator from iowa by the senator from south dakota. it seems to me that the problem we face results directly from the amendment of section 261 of the atomic energy act adopted earlier this year under which the congress assumed the power to decide administrative questions and to make decisions as to particular projects. i believe this was utterly wrong. and that the demonstration we have had here today of our difficulty in doing the right thing stems directly from that action. i should like to emphasize that it is  only a question of spending more money than the administration. through the atomic energy commission. asks us to spend. but it is a question of spending it for particular projects which the commission says it does  believe should be engaged in at this time. i think that even more important than the spending of the money is the matter of usurping the executive prerogative and responsibility. which the legislative branch of the government ought  to do. we ought  to turn the atomic energy act and its administration into a public works program. that is the course we seem to be following.
yes. section (c) states: the operations of an establishment affect commerce within the meaning of this title if * * * (b). it serves or offers to serve interstate travelers or a substantial portion of the food which it serves. or gasoline or other products which it sells. has moved in commerce. that is the language of the bill.
the senator is referring to subsection (b) (2). which includes any restaurant. cafeteria. lunchroom. lunch counter. soda fountain. or other facility principally engaged in selling food for consumption on the premises. plus gasoline sales.
i think there are precluded gasoline stations which operate solely by sales of gasoline. if it was obtained within the state and was consumed in the state. that would be intrastate commerce. it is when the gasoline is obtained from outside the state or moves in or affects interstate commerce that the act would apply. i am satisfied that that is constitutional.
. on march 14. the senate commerce committee and the senate subcommittee on air and water pollution will begin joint hearings on bills to provide for research and development of electric cars or other alternatives to the internal combustion engine. i am most interested in this field because of the favorable impact widespread use of electric cars could have on our worsening air pollution problem in this country. in the days ahead i intend to submit a statement to the hearing expressing my support for a comprehensive federal research program into electrical propulsion of motor vehicles. meantime. i would like specifically to support the bills introduced by senators magnuson and muskie. which provide for research and development of electric cars. i therefore ask unanimous consent that i be listed as cosponsor of s. 451. introduced by senator march 3i 1967 muskie and s. 453. introduced by senator magnuson.
. i thank the distinguished senator. i have  previously joined in the discussion. i wish to say first how much i value this collaboration. it has been  only a satisfaction but also a very great pleasure to this point. my association with the senator from minnesota has increased my high regard for his ability. my participation in the discussions on these several amendments has also increased my regard for the senator from mississippi and the splendid way in which he has accommodated himself to what has been in many ways a very trying experience. after working for months on this legislation in his committee he has had to deal with what i k has been a very trying series of amendments. to someone who has been over this ground many times already. perhaps it seems an unnecessary expenditure of time and energy on his part. however. for the good spirit he has shown in permitting us to continue what we think is our duty today i am most grateful. that was the reason i asked to be recognized. i want the senator from missouri to recognize what we are attempting to do in this amendment. as in other amendments which have been and which will be offered to the bill. it is very helpful and encouraging that he has so fully accepted and so well stated what we think is the primary issue here: shall congress remain in control and. as some of us think. regain control of the basic decisions affecting national policy in the field of weaponry and large strategic matters. it is our conviction. and my own very definitely. that we have  done our share of this in the past. we have  been organized to do it. and we have  regarded it as a function which we ought to perform. i can see argument against our asking the congress to do that job . i think that the matter of the carrier and several of these other strategic weapons systems are appropriate vehicles by which we can ask congress to bring itself to this task. that is the purpose. we are  for or against this carrier. qua carrier.  do we have any firm view as to the number of carriers. if any carriers there are to be in the armed services of the united states  and for the next 30 years. we do think congress should take this opportunity to study that question. and that is the purport and purpose of our amendment. i am grateful that someone so experienced in the operations of high policy in the defense of the united states should approve our effort and think it good.
i am glad that the senator from wisconsin has made this point. as ranking miity member of the subcommittee. i k there has been evidence received and testimony taken on what advantage or purpose there would be for such an appropriation. i think it is quite wrong for the senate to add any future money at all. let alone $25 million. for research in carrying any part of the sst forward. i have objection to considering it. and i think we should do so in an orderly fashion by having whatever testimony there is as to the merits of the proposal presented and the facts laid before the committee. this can be done in the regular appropriation bill. the chairman of my subcommittee is here. i am glad that he is. there is need to do it . the proposal that will be made by the senator from washington . for some $155 million. is going to include  only termination payments to general electric and boeing. and reimbursement to the airlines of moneys they have advanced as risk capital. but also some $10 million or $12 million more as termination costs which the government wants. this will  include. as we were advised. any sum-
. i am today introducing legislation that would require approval by both congress and the states affected before major facilities can be constructed in the territorial waters off our coastal states. my bill would apply to plans for construction of offshore facilities such as deep draft docking for oil super tankers. electric generating plants. airports. and oil drilling facilities. last year. i joined senator boggs in sponsoring similar legislation that would have given a veto over the construction of such facilities to the gover of any coastal state that might be adversely affected by the construction. legislation almost identical to the boggs bill has already been introduced in this congress. on further consideration. i have concluded that the congress as well as the govers ought to have the opportunity to exercise judgment in these matters. my bill gives both the govers and the congress this opportunity. in addition. my bill requires the administrator of the environmental protection agency to forward to congress a complete report. including an environmental impact statement and the views of all other federal agencies affected. with respect to the proposed facility. it also requires the administrator to forward a statement of his own comments and views on the matter. these provisions would provide congress with more information than would be required under the boggs bill. the legislation introduced earlier spefically exempts projects carried out under leases issued pursuant to the outer continental shelf lands act. in other words. leases issued for offshore oil drilling would  be covered by that legislation. my bill applies to offshore oil drilling alofig with all other types of facilities. the need for congressional attention. as required by my bill. is particularly acute at this time of constantly increasing energy demands that pose a threat to our environment. i ask that the bill be referred to the appropriate committee and it is my hope that hearings can be held on it in the near future. by mr. mansfield (by request) :
i wonder if the senator would feel that his concern was met by eliminating from my amendment  582. in the proposed new subsection (8). the first three or four words. because the encouragement of the full utilization of coal resources through the development and application of underground extraction is just an addition to the other purposes already expressed in the bill. and does  take anything away from it.
. the agreement the administration has made with other western industrial countries to fix a floor price for oil will  insure the development of alternative sources of oil and other forms of energy. even if such a floor price should be established. it will be a fragile thing. if energy prices should fall a floor price agreement would be neither observed  enforced. i suggest that investor in his right mind would be willing to invest his funds in the search for other energy sources in reliance upon such an agreement for a floor price for oil. if we need to stimulate the development of other sources of oil and of new fuels and new techogiesand surely we must do thisthere are a number of ways in which this can be done. price guaranties. direct subsidies. government purchase contracts. these and many other ways are available to stimulate the search for alternative sources of energy. reliance upon such a willofthewisp as an agreement among oil consuming countries for a minimum floor price must  be allowed to divert us from pursuing the kind of solid incentive that i have just mentioned. if it is intended that the proposed floor price should serve some other purpose. such as in negotiations with the oil producers cartel. we have  been told of it. indeed. administration spokesmen have told me directly that such purpose exists. i believe them because i can imagine such purpose which would justify this attempt to fix a price below which one in the western world will be permitted to buy oil. certainly. oil producing country would be stupid egh to put reliance on an agreement so lacking in substance.
as the distinguished senator from south carolina ks. both offshore oil drilling and deepwater oil ports have been proposed in the waters off the coast of new jersey. as i read the provisions of section 308(b) and the definition of "energy facilities" in section 102. it is my understanding that the grants and loans mentioned in section 308(b) would be applicable toboth offshore oil drilling and to deepwater ports. in order to establish a legislative record on this matter. would the senator inform me whether my understanding in this matter is correct.
  mr. baker is ranking . all members of the committee are entitled to all information. there are some differences. the kind of information that we get at the joint committee on atomic energy is technical information. it is information in regard to the nature of weapons and their deployment. and power. this is precise. factual information and there is  much difficulty in keeping that kind ol information. to the extent that it should be kept confidential. confidential. information of the sort that is involved in diplomatic negotiations. in the relations between countries and the rules of countries. or the rulers of the countries and their people and all the rest. is somewhat different. i am  a diplomat. i can tell the senator exactly how these things are done. but i should suppose that any formal conversations that occur and would be embarrassing ought  to be disclosed.
. i want to call to my colleagues attention an anncement by the energy research and development administration that fusion energy research scientists have reached a new plateau in their efforts to produce the conditions necessary for production of fusion energy.
. i am today introducing a bill to help meet the energy problems of developing countries. to develop markets for american industry. and to promote the development in this country of conventional. decentralized energy techogies. joining with me in sponsoring this legislation are senators humphrey. ken-. nedy. mcintyre. leahy. and heinz. our bill is part of a package of seven bills being introduced in the senate today by myself and other senators. including the cosponsors of this particular bill. all of the bills are designed to promote the development and use of energy conservation. solar. wind. and other conventional. decentralized energy techogies. the bill i am introducing amends the foreign assistance act to establish a cooperative program with developing countries to stimulate commercialization of smallscale power systems that can be used appropriately in developing countries. this program will help developing countries reduce their dependence on highpriced imported oil and centralized nuclear energy projects that can be distorted into nuclear weapons projects. in the process. it will develop a broader market for american industry. thereby encouraging further investment in these techogies and permitting cost reduc-. tions through automated production lines. our bill authorizes an appropriation of $10 million to the agency for international development for a series of regional studies. to be carried out in close cooperation with private industry. to determine what techogies are appropriate to the climatic conditions and energy needs of various developing countries. aid also is directed to establish a comprehensive information network which american industry can use to determine the energy needs of developing countries and developing countries can use to determine techogies available to meet their needs. finally. our bill directs aid to begin pilot projects as quickly as possible. the types of projects and the techogies that can be used are  limited by the bill. the program could encompass the use of wind machines  being developed by american industry to pump water from the shallow water tables of the sahel to irrigate the desert. or it could promote the use of massproduced photovoltaic cells to power television sets in schools at relatively low cost. permitting the viewing of educational programs carried by communications satellites. i believe this is an important bill and i hope that it will be given careful consideration. by mr. thurmond:
. as a cosponsor of the amendment offered by senator humphrey creating an international energy institute. i call attention to the suggestion that the united states work with other governments on solutions to the efficient utilization of solar energy. i k of the interest of saudi arabia in getting outside help in its solar energy development. and i think we all k that much progress has been made by the state of israel in solar energy research and the practical application of solar heating and solar energy production. it seems to me that it would be a creative contribution if the united states could help facilitate the transfer of techogy and products between the nations of the middle east and would help them demonstrate the constructive steps that could be taken leading to mal relations between those countries. both senator humphrey and i encourage such developments.
. for most of us who are  scientists. the concept of fusion energy is difficult to grasp. since fusion may well be our most important source of energy in the future. i believe it is important that there be the greatest possible understanding of this promising energy source. in its june 6 edition. time magazine carried an article that i believe explains fusion in terms that can be understood by those of us who are  scientists and i commend the article to the attention of my colleagues in the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
studies case study 1: jewish institute for geriatric care: electric power usage is coming down. the results of changes in the operations of various systems. the work of the consultants began in the summer of 1975 and by the end of 1975 all the electrical usage and demand had dropped about 15 percent. during 1976 additional operating changes reduced consumption approximately 10 percent further. in dollars. taking into consideration the several intervening con edison rate increases. the savings are averaging just under $10.000 per month. the changes include installation of flourescent lighting to replace incandescent lighting. operation of some refrigeration to maintain a temperature of 0° f. rather than -400 f. substitution of steamheated kitchen equipment for electrically heated equipment. programming of kitchen operations. improvement of supply and exhaust ventilation. etc. one specific example of what has been done to reduce electric consumption is a change made with the ventilation system. by reducing friction and pressure losses in one of the ventilation systems. the consultant was able to substitute a 25 h.p. motor for a 50 h.p. motor and ventilation was considerably improved. cost of implementing the above changes to date is approximately $20.000. although demand has levelled off at approximately a reduction of 15 percent. and consumption is down by approximately 25 percent. energy conservation is  a "one time" thing. recently the consultant iced that consumption started to rise again when compared to like months of previous cxxiii----426--part 30 years. the reason for the turnabout. the consultant determined. was that the chief engineer was longer following some of the schedules set up for him and top management had to become involved. constant surveillance has been needed to impress staff and employees with energy conservation. the approximate cost of electricity paid by the institution each year for the past three years is $365.000 in 197475. $349.000 in 197576. and $311.000 in 197677. these figures are  adjusted to reflect the several substantial rate increases awarded con edison during this time period. there are several remaining energy saving recommendations to be implemented. including: redesign of the well pump used for air conditioning. installation of turning vanes in the airconditioning duct work. additional changes to the refrigeration serving kitchens. storage boxes. and speed adjustments on several fans. these items will be implemented slowly because they represent rather major operating changes. case study 2: ym & ywha of washington heightsinwood: since 1975 the electrical demand and consumption at the y has steadily decreased on a monthtomonth basis as compared to previous years. with the exception of this past summer when demand in consumption took a drastic jump forward. the work done that resulted in a 10% drop of both demand and consumption involved changing the incandescent light fixtures in the gym to high pressure sodium fixtures. replacing the inadeouate incandescent lighting in many of the corridors and rooms with fluorescent lighting. and installation of time clocks on a number of ventilating fans. this past summer. however. there was a substantial increase in both demand and consumption which is unexplainable. particularly since the central airconditioning unit was ierative during one of the summer months. the consultant is endeavoring to determine the reason for the increase including contacting the con edison company regarding their readings. all in all. with the exception of the three summer months. the dollar outlay for electricity is anproximatelv the same today as it was in 1975. despite the several interim rate increases. disregarding the rate increases the y paid $17.000 in 197475. $17.300 in 197576. and $17.600 in 197677. case study 3: jewish child care associationcentral building: electrical usage in this building has come down by the amount of the rate increases during the period of the energy saving project. in 1974 the central office used $40.304 of electricity. in 1976 the cost was $40.104. the monthly cost in 1977 was running under the comnarable monthly charges for 1976 until july and august of this year. when there was a urolonged hot spell and usage. and the cost increased substantially. the amount of increase. however. the consultant believes indicates a defect in the operation of the airconditioning system which the consultant has brought to the attention of the agency and arrangements are being made to correct the trouble. the work that was done to reduce electric costs included correction of defects in the airconditioning condensing unitq. the consultant also found the lumin oultput for each fluorescent ligbt fixture to be only a fraction of what it should have been. changing the diffusers and cleaning the fixtures substantially increased light output. the results at this building clearly demonstrate the need for continuirg surveillance of energy use. case study 4: a major residential child care facility: some institutions are  concerned with reducing the use of energy. a major child care residential facility could significantly reduce its use of power without in any way curtailing its activities but because of an unusual situation. the agency has claimed it would be penalized if it took steps to reduce electric usage. a few examples of ways in which electric use could be reduced are: a. two gynmasia are lighted with incandescent lamps. gym lighting could be improved and the quality of electricity reduced to approximately 25 percent of its present consumption by substituting high pressure sodium lamps for the incandescent lamps. b. one large building is heated electrically. if hot water heat were installed. savings in electricity would pay for the hot water installation in approximately one heating season. c. in 197677 the agency planned to replace gasfired stoves in each cottage with electric stoves. a change that would have increased operating costs. without considering the capital charges. by approximately $1.500 per year. the consultant was able to dissuade the agency from taking this course. at least temporarily. one area where the consultant has been able to influence electrical consumption is with the agencys outdoor lighting. last year the agency planned to install new incandescent exterior lighting around all cottages. the consultant redesigned the lighting that was originally planned and substituted high pressure sodium fixtures for the incandescent fixtures. because high pressure sodium lighting produces far more lumen per watt of electrical input. the redesign resulted in higher lighting level using fewer fixtures at lower initial cost and for approximately 20 percent of the operating cost as compared with the original design. the consultant also substituted high pressure sodium lighting for some existing quartz lighting around the central building but reduced the electrical ccst to about 15 percent of what was previously needed. as mentioned above. an interesting yet distressing reason is offered for the agencys reluctance to reduce use of power. the agencys operating costs are defrayed by new york city whereas capital costs are paid by the city. were the agency to strive for more efficient operation any costs would have to be borne by them yet any savings would revert back to the city.
s message for the groundbreaking ceremonies. the text of a speech given by dr. robert d. thorne. acting assistant secretary of energy techogy for doe. and the text of my own message to those at the ceremony be printed in the record.
. i am today introducing a bill that will require the secretary of state to implement projects for the application of solar energy or other forms of renewable energy in u.s. embassies. chanceries. and other foreign service buildings overseas. in part this bill is an outgrowth of a recent study conducted by the office of techogy assessment. the ota draft study. made public last july. was the most exhaustive analysis of smallunit solar techogy ever undertaken. while most of its findings applied to domestic use of solar energy. it also concluded that solar energy techogy "would be particularly attractive in developing nations. where inexpensive labor and high electricity costs would make solar energy relatively attractive. and that use of solar units might relieve some of the international tensions created by competition over conventional energy supplies." the experience of the american embassy at tel aviv lends support to that finding. solar heated hot water installations were made at two u.s.-owned residential properties in tel aviv in april 1975. based on the experience of the first 4 months of operation of these installations. the state department estimated annual savings of $300 to $400 a year on electricity consumption by these two residences. "if similar systems were installed at 26 other residencesin tel avivsubstantial additional savings of approximately $7.800 to $10.400 per year in utility costs could be achieved." the state department reported. upon request. the state department provided a list of 130 other diplomatic posts throughout the world where solar hot water installations could be made profitably. in addition. the state department identified 11 major projects that might be utilized at posts in brazil. mauritania. niger. pakistan. india. iran. senegal. egypt. new zealand. and bangladesh. the major projects. which would cost an estimated $4.400.000. range from solar absorption airconditioning. to solar photovoltaic generation of electricity. to solar wind generation of electricity. the state department estimates that the 11 major projects and the 130 solar hot water installations could be implemented for a total. including administrative costs. of $5 million. my bill authorizes $5 million to be appropriated for this program for the fiscal year beginning october 1. 1978. based on the experience of the american embassy at tel aviv. the initial costs of these projects can be expected to be recovered in a relatively short period of time. but promoting energy efficiency at u.s. diplomatic posts is  the only purpose of the bill. the use of american techogy at our diplomatic posts also is intended to serve as a showcase for the techogy. it is intended to demonstrate to the host countries how american techogy can be used in their countries to help solve their energy problems. in the process. it is intended to broaden the demand for this techogy and thereby reduce production costs for the benefit of both domestic and foreign customers. at the same time. it is intended to make u.s. diplomatic posts more energy selfsufficient and less reliant on interruptible local energy supplies. thus providing an added degree of security vital to the operation of sensitive systems within u.s. missions abroad. a bill identical to the bill i am introducing is being introduced simultaneously in the house by representative jeffords of vermont. the distinguished senator from illis. mr. percy. has asked to join me in introducing this bill and i am happy to have him do so. i ask unanimous consent that his name be added as a cosponsor of the bill. i also ask unanimous consent that a copy of the bill be printed at this point in the record. i believe this is a good bill and i hope that it will receive widespread support from my colleagues in the senate. by mr. pell (for himself. mr. williams. mr. javits. and mr.
. on october 21. 1979. we will mark the 100th anniversary of the invention of the first practical incandescent electric lamp by that foremost american genius thomas alva edison. in connection with the upcoming anniversary. i am today introducing for senator williams and myself the thomas a. edison centennial educational act. mr. edison. while belonging to all of america. made his home and maintained his famous laboratories in new jersey for many years. new jersey today lists as two of its historic attractions. the edison historic site at west orange. n.j.. the location of edisons large and famous "idea factory." and the edison tower. a 131foot high tower marking the site at menlo park. n.j.. of one of edisons earlier and well kn laboratories. it was at the menlo park lab that edison and a group of hardy associates undertook on a major scale work on electric lighting. and after some months developed the incandescent electric lampthe gadget without which our lives today would be different indeed. edison. of course. did  invent electric lighting  discover electricity. he saw the need. and had the mental capacity and the vision to develop the first practical incandescent electric lamp. he did it. i suspect. by what he would describe as 90 percent perspiration and 10 percent inspiration. edison was a most prolific inventor and his laboratories turned out many inventions. in addition to the incandescent lamp. which have enriched the lives of mankind. these include the phoraph. the motion picture camera. the the stock ticker. the storage battery the magnetic ore separator and the fluorescent lamp. among others. the bill which i am introducing today establishes a 20member commission to promote and guide an observance of the 100th anniversay of edisons genius and its impact on our society. the commission. in addition. would administer a small grants program under which work in compiling. editing and publishing the many papers of thomas a. edison would be initiated. this is a modest program250.000 yearly for the grants program for 3 successive yearsand i believe it is a worthwhile project which we should consider carefully. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the thomas a. edison centennial educational act be printed at this point in the record.
. the dollar hunger of europe and the marshall plan give european peoples the greatest opportunity in centuries to junk their ancient prejudices and rivalries. their ecoic autarchy and compartmentalism and to develop a full customs union in the next few years. and on a definite timetable. the american taxpayer will see in the adoption of such a program by the western european nations  considering their situation in paris. that the marshall plan is good business as well as good politics. if these nations will  pledge themselves to a customs union as their part of the marshall plan. and will throw into the balance. with energy and enthusiasm. all of western europes own resources. both human and material. we shall indeed see the dawn of a new day of world stability. and the beginning of democratic successes which will again make it clear that this is still "one world" and that the soviets have retired into isolationism rather than organized aher world. the idea of a western european customs union is developed in a brilliant article in the ecoist. of london. one of the worlds leading publications. issue of june 14. 1947. which has just reached me. entitled "mr. marshalls challenge." it recognizes the basic truth that the american taxpayer does  want europes shopping list. but wants europes ecoic rehabilitation plan. it deserves the study of every member.
. with respect to the pending bill. i call the attention of my colleagues. particularly from new york city. to the fact that in 1950 we. too. shall be using natural gas very extensively in.new york. some 60.000.000.000 cubic feet annually will be mixed with ordinary gas  manufactured in new york city. and piped through the gas mains of new york. my feeling about this bill causes me to oppose it. and i may say that i support the recommendation of my colleague from massachusetts . that this bill be recommitted to the committee for study  only of this source of energy but of other sources of energy. in new york city which is a situation typical of other cities. there are gas companies which are distributing this gas and will distribute it together with manufactured gas. those are public utilities. this presents a unique situation. because here we have a source of energy coming from a place distant from new york city and piped through public utility lines in new york city. nevertheless. if the outlets are completely controlled. as they are. there is competition in those. you have such situation as you have in oil and gasoline. where there are many service stations in a particular community which can compete with each other. here you have a public utility as the end result. hence i believe that in order to be consistent and follow out what we understand to be the necessary law with respect to public utilities. that the rates should be controlled. you must start here at the source. the fact that the source is in aher state. should  make any difference. the theory of regulation remains the same. when the end result is that the distributing company has a mooly and the consumer must. whether he likes it or . pay the prices that the public utility charges.
i thank the senator. . these figures show that in the states of pennsylvania and ohio. within the 150mile distance. the total preference demand is about 40.000 kilowatts per annum. and the allocation under this bill is a maximum of 180.000 kilowatts per annum. even if we go into the 200mile range. the total preference demand in pennsylvania and ohio is 95.000 kilowatts. so the bill still provides for nearly twice that amount of power. i respectfully submit that upon that basis alone the bill is a very fair proposition. the second point which my colleague. the senator from pennsylvania. glossed over very quickly is a fact which the map portrays very clearly. i respectfully invite the attention of the members of the senate to the map. the block of blue represents coal production. as all senators are aware. when coal is immediately available power can be produced as cheaply or cheaper than it can be produced by rushing water. that is very significant in terms of the argument. for when this very matter was debated in the other body most of the pennsylvania representatives were  only  in favor of such amendment as is proposed by the senator from pennsylvania. but- were against it. they wanted to cut down the 180.000 kilowatts a year. because they said that they had a large number of unemployed miners and a whole lot of coal and they did  want to encourage the use of elecrticity from waterpower. they wanted electricity to be used after producing it from coal. rom the map we can see what can possibly be done. we see that one sitting. so to speak. on the coal can make power from coal cheaper than from a water source far away. from which it is necessary to wheel the power. which is an important item. the one who prepared the report is odys fool. when the senator from pennsylvania made a tremendous thing out of this in his campaign. and subsequently reiterated it in respect to this bill. he demonstrated that fact. the facts and figures contained in this volume. to my mind. make up as intelligent and as constructive an analysis as i have ever seen of any bill. in terms of preparation for debate in this body. the facts and figures show that practically in the case of the cooperatives which are being discussed. the power can be produced for less. or merchandized for less. right on the ground in the pennsylvania area as compared to bringing it from niagara. in that case. what is this argument all about. i think what it is all about is this: it is either a doctrinaire idea that every power project in the united states. whether it applies or . must have a preference clause applied to it as a matter of principle. or it is some idea about a yardstick. which we have always heard discussed. which was  mentioned by the senator from pennsylvania. but which figured in the testimony and the discussion about the bill. the yardstick principle in this particular case is quite inapplicable by virtue of the fact that the state of new york. under new york state law. has a power authority which fixes the rates for the power it will produce which is going to be resold. matter who resells it. even if resold over private transmission lines. the other thing that we might speculate about is that this is a pickaback amendment. indeed. all these amendments are pickaback amendments. and the thought is that "the state of new york is going to do a fine job. so let us get as much of a free ride as we can. if we are offered 180.000 kilowatts. despite the fact that we can use more than 90.000 kilowatts. let us try to get twice as much. and demonstrate to the people of the communities that we are doing a very special job." i might look at that and smile and say. "that is a nice idea. i might be able to do that myself some day. except for the fundamental point. which is that if we put these amendments in the bill they could well result in disabling the power authority from being able to sell the bonds upon which the whole project is based."
yes. the sentence to which the members of the group of the other body object reads as follows: in the case of the international atomic energy agency the commission may distribute only such amounts of special nuclear materials as are authorized by congress: provided. however. withstanding this provision. that the commission is hereby authorized subject to the provisions of section 123. to distribute to the agency 5.000 kilograms of contained uranium 235. together with the amounts of special nuclear material which will match in amount the sum of all quantities of special nuclear materials made available by all other members of the agency to july 1. 1960. . let me say that i am  finding fault or complaining. i am pointing out the situation for only two reasons: first. the bill is in conference. and if any member of the senate has an opinionand i doit seems to me the opinion should be expressed while it may have some influence upon what is taking place at this time. second. let me refer to the very important letter which was addressed by the senator from new mexico -and this is very important in connection with the whole matter. as all of us kto the washington post. the letter deals with this particular subject. in the letter the senator from new mexico says: amounts over and above 5.000 kilogramsreferring to uranium 235($80 million worth) of fissionable material plus matching requirements already authorized by mr. brickers amendment can be made available by a general authorization act and distributed to the agency from time to time in accordance with its needs and ours. in short. there is in contemplation other action upon this matter. as all of us k. the entire sum of the public view and the view of members of the senate has an effect upon other action. it is for that additional reason that i felt it properand i have great respect. i repeat. for the views of my colleagues who have worked on this matter so long and so hard. and i present my views with great humilityto spread my views upon the record.
there were two major policy questions decided last friday. one related to giving the atomic energy commission some money to build two plants which the commission said it did  want. the other related to cooperatives. i understand those questions have been settled in the conference report. would the senator from new mexico be good egh to enlighten us as to the terms of the settlement. and also as to the consistency of the settlement with the policies involved when the senate voted on these major questions.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two petitions. one from delaware county. n. y.. and one from clinton county. signed by various citizens interested in electric power furnished to consumers by electric cooperatives. who protest against what they call an acivertising campaign by the electric light and power industry.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record 2 petitions in the form of resolutions. 1 from the supervisors of schenectady county. n. y.. and the other from the common council of syracuse. n. y.. in opposition to the socalled natural gas bill.
. on behalf of my colleague. the senior senator from new york [mr. ivesj. and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for the correction of an inequity in the new york statest. lawrence hydroelectric project. i ask unanimous consent that a brief explanation of the bill may be printed in the record.
. i am very much pleased to be on the floor to join with my colleagues and friends in saying. "bill. we are sorry to see you go. we wish for you all the best. we wish for you personal happiness and all the things. which you want for your future." the junior senator from indiana and i have practically had an automatic voting pair. it became a matter of interest. when we voted alike on the floor. it was something really unusual. yet i have a deep conviction that such a condition is the very essence of why our country is so great. that it is this amalgam of ideas which makes it great. that each of us. in his own way. has an impact upon our people and upon our time. that is the way we want it. i think i would be untrue to my own conscience if i did  say that only the lord ks who is right. it is only the free and fair exchanging of ideas and awaiting the mandate of the senate. of congress. and the country. that gives us the national virility and strength to meet the towering challenges. unmatched in history. which our country faces today. i say to my colleague. as he leaves. that withstanding our disagreements on many fundamental matters of policy. i appreciate the sincerity and respect. the indefatigable energy and erudition. with which he has attacked problems in his way. as i have tried to do so in my own. i believe that in this way each of us makes his contribution to what is good for the united states and the free world.
. i pre- to be printed in the record. as follows: sent. for appropriate reference. a reso- the upson county electric membership lution adopted by the theast queens corp. board of directors council for schools. of new york city. resolution relating to assistance on a grant basis whereas senator carl t. curtis. of neto help meet the problems of inadequate braska. has introduced in the u.s. senate a facilities and teachers salaries. i ask bill to take the rural electrification adminisunanimous consent that the resolution be tration out of the u.s. department of agriprinted in the record. culture altogether and make it an independ-
 will reconsider the terms of this order or at the very least. its amendment in order to exempt from its provisions residual fuel oil. also. i hope every seller of oil contemplating price increases will think about it many times before imposing such increases on the people and the national ecoy.
. toward that end i join in endorsing the proposal of the senator from minnesota that we provide that the senate foreign relations committee should be consulted regarding all future agreements reported by the joint atomic energy committee so that every effort will have been made to measure adequately the implication of such pacts on the immediate and longterm foreign policy objectives of the united states for peace. and we may all be better equipped for our role as atomic sentinels.
. some of us could hardly hear the unanimousconsent request proposed by the senator from texas so that we may get some information. i understand the senator proposes to bring up for consideration the atomic energy appropriation bill and that he has secured unanimous consent for the consideration of the supplemental appropriation bill. and that he is asking for a time limit on the supplemental appropriation bill. what was the request for time.
i will be glad to do it. the second proposition is. perhaps the senator could set up all views on two sides of a paper. as we do in these committees. arguments as to why there should be an appropriation on one side. and on the opposite side arguments of the atomic energy commission and others why there should  be. then we will  have senators coming to the floor in the final analysis saying. "well. you are popping this on us very suddenly. we really do  k anything about it." in short. before it ever reaches the floor. let us set forth the points on a major issue with the arguments on both sides so that the senators can be fully informed. and  feel that this is a new thing which has just been popped out of the air. they would then have a major policy statement. with the arguments set forth on both sides. and they can then use that.
it involves losses in connection with power facilities. and also such losses as we would suffer with respect to navigation. but primarily losses in connection with electric power facilities in which the state of new york has a direct and immediate interest. and with respect to which. as i shall further develop as we go along. we would suffer. at the very least. a definitely ascertainable loss.
i might add that even the question can be somewhat extended in its detail. so i hope the senator will bear with me while i put this question to him. i ask the senator whether he would be prepared to adopt a figure computed for me by the engineers for the new york state power authority. namely. the figure of $264.131. as the additional loss represented by the power loss specified in this telegram from the commissioner of the quebec hydroelectric power commission. and also the additional figureshould the proposed diversion become permanentof $427.691. assuming that the proposed 1.000 cubic feet of water a second diversion became permanent. as being the computed loss to the quebec plants.
i shall have some further questions on that matter. and i shall return to make them in a few moments. in the meantime. i should like to hand the senator a memorandum and ask the senator to peruse it carefully. perhaps he will find it worthy of insertion in his remarks as bearing upon the questions which he has answered. i refer to a memorandum on value of power loss by the quebec hydroelectric commission. the memorandum was prepared by engineers of the new york power authority.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article by david e. lilienthal. first chairman of the u.s. atomic energy commission. and before that chairman of the tennesese valley authority. in an eloquent way mr. lilienthal has recognized the firm challenge facing our nation for a long time and . upon the dawn of what must be a new postsummit era of american consciousness of the worlds situation. calls for actionaction of which only freemen are capable because it results from their most profound personal convictions.
. the consideration by the senate of the bill appropriating funds for the operation of the executive branch of the federal government for the fiscal year beginning july 1. 1960. affords an appropriate opportunity to record a deep and growing concern on my part and on the part of my colleagues representing the state of new york in congress regarding the increasingly apparent trend affecting both the nation and particularly that part of the nation which lies along the eastern seaboard. the trend is simply this: a disproportionate flow to the western part of the country of federally sponsored scientific and defense projects. in the form of contracts and governmentowned facilities. this includes military projects. contracts related to the exploration of space. and atomic energy facilities and installations. even more disturbing to me is that this is a trend which is accelerating. i fully appreciate and respect the competence and fairness of the judgments which are brought to bear by officials of the executive branch of the government in the selection of the location of individual contracts and projects. and i do  dispute in the main the technical considerations which govern these individual actions. i am . therefore. questioning the wisdom or justification of any individual action of any agency of the executive branch of the government. i do. however. suggest that the cumulative effect of all of these project location actions during the past several years has resulted in a flow of federal business to the western as opposed to the eastern part of the nation. there are undoubtedly many excellent reasons why this has been the case. among them the consideration that many defenseoriented industries are situated in less populous and open spaces of the west where experimental scientific work can be conveniently pursued. i do  wish to suggest any diminution in the importance of the technical and ecoic criteria which are taken into account in the location of any specific project. nevertheless. that there is perhaps aher equally important criterion that should apply in those instances where purely technical and ecoic considerations do  in themselves suggest a clear answer to the question of the location of any particular project or work. this vital criterion is the impact of federal procurement on our overall national interest. such a criterion is hing more than a realization that federal contracts and federally owned facilities affect the health and vigor of the overall national econ- omy. i have in mind in this connection a specific provision of the appropriations bill which is  before this body. this provision appropriates funds for a $24 million nuclear test reactor facility to be constructed by the atomic energy commission. that is dealt with in this bill. the state of new york. in accordance with its official atomic development program. proposed to the atomic energy commission that this facility. to perform atomic energy irradiation services for private industry as well as the federal government. be constructed in the theastern united states where such facility  exists. to help make this possible. the state of new york proposed that it acquire and make available a site within the state at which the proposed facility could be located. or. alternatively. proposed that the state participate financially in the project to the extent of the cost of a site if the project were located at an already existing federal installation within the state.
i shall bring the senator up to date. the main point is that we believe there are other criteria where there is  such a clear indication as with respect to the scientific and ecoic criteria. and that they ought. more and more. to come into consideration in an effort. at least. to moderate the tremendous flow west which has taken place with respect to the location of particular installations and the investment of particular procurements. in this respect. we gave as an exampleand that is what i was just sayingthe nuclear test reactor facility to be constructed by the aeca $24 million reactor. i was about to point out that the state of new york. which has an official atomic energy development program of its own. propose to the atomic energy commission that this particular nuclear reactor facility be constructed in the theastern united states. the state of new york offered to make available a site within the state. or. alternatively. proposed that the state of new york participate financially in the project. in other words. we offered a site or to share the cost of the installation if it was placed on the site of aher federal installation already in the state. the new york congressional delegationas is true of other state delegationsoperates in matters of this kind regardless of party. and has endorsed and supported this proposal unanimously. the atomic energy commission has ified us that it intends to proceed with the construction of the proposed project at its established reservation in the state of idaho. where two similar facilities. serving private industry. as well as the federal government. are already in being. the atomic energy commission. in the opinion of our people in new yorkand we have a program there with a commissioner and an organizationhas given logical reasons in justification for locating this facility in idaho. we do  wish to take issue with the commission with respect to those reasons. however. we are concerned with the effect of the decision. when taken together with the effect of a series of related decisions. on the prospects of permitting the substantial industry in the theast to play an equitable role in atomic development in the nation. recently we have seen the atomic energy commission begin the construction of a $15 million atomic power prototype reactor of advanced experimental design at the commissions reservation in the state of washington. we have seen also the commencement of construction of an $18.5 million submarine reactor prototype at the commissions reservation at idaho. and we have seen the commencement of work on a $145 million plutonium production reactor. convertible to electric power generation in the amount of 700.000 kilowatts. in the state of washington. congress in this session has received a request for authorization of a $115 million nuclear particle accelerator in californiaan authorization that has  been passed. but which probably will be reconsidered next year. in an equivalent period in the field of atomic energy. only a handful of relatively small projects have been initiated in the easttotaling millions of dollars in estimated cost. we are calling attention to the trend represented by these instances. we do  challenge the individual decisions. the source of our concern and that of our colleagues is the trend. and it is likewise the source of the concern of eastern industry. it goes well beyond the example i have used in regard to atomic energy installations. for this trend affects many other aspects of federal military and scienttfic endeavors. as well. i call attention to this trend at this time. in making this statement on the floor of the senate. as an invitation to thoughtful consideration by members of the congress. including the very distinguished and able senator from new mexico . who has been so great a leader in this field. and also by the scientific and military agencies of the federal government. i think some agencies of the federal government make too little effort to make suggestions which will result in having our people sharpen their pencils and use their best brains and organize the industries in their own states in such a way as to come abreast of the increasing tendency to remove to the west. rather than to "give a break" to the theast and to new york. this is hing but a caveat. as we lawyers saya plea in that regard. and pointing out that the trend is accelerating. that is the purpose of these remarks.
. we who z "iew keith thomson as a member of .mi house of representatives had looked forward to his coming to the senate as a new addition of energy and vigor to the republican side of the aisle. with tremendous pride in coming from a mountain state in which he won a great elec-
am i right. therefore. in assuming that the argument as to the most effective use of the $95 million for the production of power. as distinguished from the development of atomic energy at this point. is this opportunity which the senator discusses.
i have a few brief remarks to make on residual fuel oil prices and import restrictions. in may of last year the president instructed the director of ocdm.  the office of emergency planning. to conduct a study in depth to ascertain whether or  residual fuel oil imports were endangering national securitythe reason for the original application of these controls. i understand that this study is  complete. and urge the president to instruct the director of oep to forward that report to the white house so that prompt and decisive action can be taken by the president. the continuation of import restrictions on residual fuel oil is also causing serious ecoic harm to our friends overseas. venezuela. a country that is  only our loyal friend but a leader in the alliance for progress. is the primary supplier of residual fuel oil to us. in new york state. both marketers and consumers of residual or heavy fuel oil are suffering hardships and are being penalized by restrictions on residual or heavy fuel oil imports. the marketer. particularly the independent small businessman. is fighting for his business life because controls have concentrated quotas in the hands of a few major suppliersand even the latter are against this arbitrary allocation of business volume by the government. competition has been restrained and a product that is already in short supply in our country has been further curtailed as to available stocks by restrictions on imports. residual fuel import restrictions have supply and price repercussions. directly or indirectly. on every consumer throughout the country. wherever the product is or can be used for heating or electric power purposes. in view of the steady longterm decline in domestic fuel oil productionabout 4 percent in 1961 alonethe east coast. which accounts for over 60 percent of the total u.s. consumption of this product. must rely increasingly on foreign supplies to meet its growing requirements. however. the import restrictions which were placed on residual fuel oil in april 1959 have put an absolute ceiling on its importation. this ceiling. together with the declining rate of domestic output. has caused a tightness in total supply which has forced prices up. such a development is the naturalin fact. inevitableconsequence of restriction in supplies. probably the clearest indication of this situation is found in the changing price level of published bids for the residual fuel oil requirements of the city of new york. these bids generally represent the lowest prices at which the product is available for this type of consumer. in the five boroughs of new york. average annual quotations for the last 3 years are as follows: in 1959. $2.268 per barrel. in 1960. $2.410 per barrel. and in 1961. $2.776 per barrel. a 22.4percent increase in 3 years. since the city of new york uses annually more than 3 million barrels of residual fuel oil for public consumption. the price increases in 1961 alone have cost the public authorities $1.1 million. public bid quotations from other areas. such as boston. show that the price trends in new york are definitely  isolated cases. further evidence of the price rise is provided by the monthly price data on residual fuel oil issued by the office of emergency planning in washington. d.c. these data show that average east coast cargo prices for resellers and direct users rose to $2.28 in the first 10 months of 1961. compared to $2.21 in the same period of 1960 and $2.14 in 1959. since new york state is the largest consumer of residual fuel oil on the east coast. the price increases have fallen particularly heavily on the people of that state who in 1960 consumed over 76 million barrels of this commodity. about 70 percent of which came from abroad. it should also be pointed out that the increase in residual fuel oil prices has had the indirect effect of raising the cost of electric power to many consumers in new york. the largest utility in the state has an automatic fuel adjustment clause in its rate structure. since this utility uses considerable quantities of residual fuel oil. any price increase is automatically passed on to consumers. evidence of such a price increase is provided  only by the previously cited figures but also by the office of emergency plannings latest price data on east coast cargo sales of residual fuel oil. these show the following prices for cargo sales to utilities only october 1958. $2.11 per barrel. october 1959. $2.04 per barrel. october 1960. $2.21 per barrel. and october 1961. $2.24 per barrel. a 6 percent increase over 1958 and a 10 percent increase over 1959. in the last several days prices of residual fuel oil have increased sharply in california which usually supplies a small quantity of residual oil to the east coast. at the same time. price increases have occurred in the midwest which draws a large share of its residual oil supplies from the u.s. gulf coast which is also the source for about 20 percent of the east coasts residual oil supplies for internal consumption. the indications are clear that east coast consumers can expect price relief on residual fuel oil under the present import restrictions. . i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record a statement on this subject prepared by the independent fuel oil marketers of america. inc.
. i should like to turn  to the subject of the great celebration being held today in my hometown. new york city. i did  have an opportunity to be there today because of business in the senate. new york city is giving a great welcome to col. john h. glenn. it is truly a heartfelt embrace and a tribute to the courage. skill. and spirit of colonel glenn and his fellow astronauts. colonel glenns orbital flight was an historic lift.  only in terms of scientific achievement. but also for american pride and confidence. it has given america and the free world what it has needed. new york city today is speaking for the country. with a great outpouring of affection. and it is expressing the feeling of america in a most eloquent way. the whole nation must certainly be proud of what is taking place in new york. the most dynamic. electric city in the country and the world. i hope those who are sometimes critical of new york will take e of this day. when the whole country takes pride in the fact that it is new york city which is demonstrating to the whole world in the most magnificent manner possible how we in the united states feel about colonel glenn.
. a recent editorial by william randolph hearst. jr.. editor in chief of the hearst newspapers. has come to my attention. it is entitled "we support trade program." and is. in my opinion. in the highest tradition of responsible journalism. it is both thoughtful and hard hitting. and it presents the case for the trade program which "is  a partisan program. but an american one." i ask unanimous consent to have this editorial inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. trade expansion is indeed a national issue which has enlisted the support of a broad and bipartisan group of our national leaders. it is a program which still is being shaped to meet the challenges of our time. to project the power and the energy of our country forward into the great and changing stream of world history. for this purpose. i have presented certain alternative proposals to the trade bill as it was originally presented to the congress. some of these suggestions have found a place in the bill which  is in the other body. some of the others i expect to present again. in a form suitable to the bill which will come to the senate. so they may be considered here. but all these suggestions have been offered and will be offered in the spirit of furthering the objectives of a program on which this nation finds itself increasingly uniteda program which. as is pointed out by mr. hearst. is designed to serve the best interests of our country and all our people. whether management. labor. or farmers.
i believe that secretary udalls response. especially. places this problem in a substantially different light than heretofore viewed by most people. according to the latest estimates of the department of the interior. the probability of any dramatic upsurge of soviet oil exports to bloc countries within the near future. at least through 1965. is  supported by available evidence. to be sure. exports from the soviet union to bloc markets can be expected to grow. but at a slower rate than that observed for the past 7 years. namely. 1955 to 1961. the secretary offers the following evidence to support this view. first. exports of soviet oil to western nations have remained at roughly the same level in 1961 and 1962: namely. about 565.000 barrels a day. this is contrasted with annual gains in preceding years which ranged between 25 and 65 percent. gains which caused justified alarm in the west. soviet oil exports increased from 80.000 to 565.000 barrels a day between 1955 and 1961. second. eastern europe has become an energy deficit area much sooner than expected. the indication is that exports of oil from the soviet union to the east european bloc are climbing very rapidly. third. due to the growing energy requirements of the soviet union and the high costs. and the disappointing performance of the soviet coal industry. the availability of soviet oil for export outside the bloc has evidently been temporarily reduced. fourth. based on the energy requirements of the soviet bloc in 1962. the secretary of the interior believes that the national petroleum councils estimates of potential soviet exports to bloc nations of 900.000 to 1 million barrels a day by 1965 is somewhat high. these conclusions are supported by other authoritative sources. such as those of edmund k. faltermayer in the wall street journal of april 22. 1963. and evidence submitted to the joint ecoic committee during its december 1962 hearings. entitled "dimensions of soviet ecoic power." it is. therefore. evident that the ecoic capability of the soviet union to wage a massive oil offensive has been curtailed. at least for the time being. and that we are entering a new phase of the soviet oil offensive against the west. i would be the last to argue that the soviet union is longer capable or determined to use its oil resources in a drive directed against selected target countries for political or strategic purposes.. the soviet union remains committed to power expansion through ecoic warfare by its own ideology. for which we can find abundant evidence. we also find that western european governments are beginning to learn that they pay heavily for depending upon the soviet union for their fuel requirements. the experiences of france. israel. finland. greece. austria. and iceland. as reported by experts of the standard oil co.. of new jersey. continue to bear witness to this real hazard. the soviets objective is to exploit the dependence of western countries for their essential fuel requirements in order to influence their national policies at a critical period. by threatening to cut off oil. just as it rattles its rockets whenever it is aned with the policies of the united states or with some other part of the free world. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the memorandum of the standard oil co. of new jersey. to which i have just referred. and also the article written by edmund k. faltermayer. published in wall street journal of april 22. 1963.
 i have done precisely that. as recently as last wednesday in connection with the laborhew appropriations bill. the reason i made the comment about bipartisanship is that i had the feeling that members of congress. when they vote. have an idea that party loyalty requires them to stand by the administrationit might have happened just as well on our side of the aisle if our party were in the majorityand that they have to stand by and vote to table this kind of amendment. i think the senator from oregon has. with his eloquence and warmth. highlighted what i have tried to do. but which i am delighted to join him in highlightingthe fact that. of all the things done in the racial field. with all the fuel added to the fire. this is the worst. it is inconceivable for anyone to understand how. in this day and age. we can justify expending the federal treasurys money in aid of state segregated programs. it is inconceivable. i pay ho to senators on the majority side of the aisle who. withstanding the party line on this question and the feeling of the administration representatives. voted as they did. i do  criticize the others. but i feel keenly that our only way to win in this field is by a bipartisan effort.
. those favoring the continuation of strict controls over residual fuel oil imports should consider the impact of such controls on latin america and our aim to keep latin america free and ecoically viable through the alliance for progress program. in this case we are doing something which has directly the opposite effect. by maintaining these controls we are acting against our own selfinterest. the exportation of products to the united states of such products as residual fuel oil is vital to the ecoic expansion of latin america. it makes little sense to pour billions of dollars into latin america with one hand. while on the other hand we limit the importation of such products from latin america as cotton. lead. zinc. as well as crude. and residual fuel oil. through which they can earn much needed resources to help themselves. one of the finest steps that we could take to improve the outlook for the alliance for progress program. would be to cut out the quota on residual oil. that would be a plege to latin america that we really meant business when we said that we would assist their efforts to improve ecoic conditions in latin america. we would be practicing what we are preaching. yet instead. we maintain this program of controls. which is of insignificant ecoic value to those who favor its continuation. venezuela and other countries have protested this quota system time and time again. they are absolutely right. from the standpoint of the domestic consumer we must avoid these bureaucratic injustices. my colleague is absolutely right in his statement that this quota should be withdrawn.
 declared thata careful and meaningful relaxation of controls on imports of residual fuel oil consistent with the national security and the attainment of western hemispheric objectives which contribute to the national security. the present basis for allocating quotas has also resulted in anticompetitive conditions in this industry and higher prices for the consumer. the secretarys reply openly admits thatit is most difficult to maintain effective controls of imports of residual fuel oil and at the same time engender within the industry the degree of competition which would exist in the absence of such controls. he also concedes that control of oil imports entails "moderate" additional costs to the u.s. ecoy. it looks as if secretary udall is justifying import restrictions of residual fuel oil on the basis of price considerations. this is in direct contradiction to his contention that these controls are needed for reasons of national security. the secretary also claims that the program was liberalized in the past 3 years. while in some respects this statement is true. it falls to point out that under the existing regulations the consumer is still tied to one supplier. this is a deplorable situation. yet thus far an insoluble one. i would hope. therefore. that my colleagues from new england. the middle atlantic states. as well as florida. would join us soon in a concerted effort toward rectifying this situation. only in this way can we hope for effective and quick results. in this regard. the legislature of the state of maine is to be commended for its courage in unanimously passing. at a special session of the legislature on january 16. 1964. a joint resolution calling for the removal or liberalization of import controls on residual fuel oil in the best interests of the consumer and the nation. i also point out that one of the things which is hurting latin america almost irretrievably. and which is bedeviling the alliance for progress. is the fact that the terms of trade are turning against rather than in favor of latin america. latin american exporters are constantly buying less u.s. goods instead of more. one of the great difficulties is the arbitrary restrictions placed on latin american exports. such as residual fuel oil. zinc. lead. and other commodities. for all these reasons. i renew my plea that the residual fuel oil quotas be withdrawn and that the plan be canceled. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record secretary of the interior udalls letter. the resolution of the legislature of the state of maine. and an editorial that appeared in the miami herald on january 6. 1964.
. on december 17. 1963. in a joint letter to secretary of the interior udall. the senator from new york imr. keating] and i urged him to dismantle the present system of unnecessary controls on residual fuel oil prior to the start of the new quota year on april 1. 1964. to permit mal competitive forces of the marketplace to prevail. secretary udalls reply of january 20 is surprising and evasive. and once again fails to give any rational justification for the continuation of this administrations program of residual fuel oil import controls. the maintenance of these controls can be justified in terms of our national security. this issue has clearly been disposed of on february 13. 1963. when the report of the office of emergency planning to the presi.dent declared that "a careful and meaningful relaxation of controls on imports of residual fuel oil consistent with the national security and the attainment of western hemispheric objectives which contribute to the national security." the present basis for allocating quotas has also resulted in anticompetitive conditions in this industry and higher prices for the consumer. the secretarys reply openly admits that "it is most difficult to maintain effective controls of imports of residual fuel oil and at the same time engender within the industry the degree of competition which would exist in the absence of such controls." he also concedes that control of oil imports entails "moderate" additional costs to the u.s. ecoy. it looks as if secretary udall is justifying import restrictions of residual fuel oil on the basis of price considerations. this is in direct contradiction to his contention that these controls are needed for reasons of national security. the secretary also claims that the program was liberalized in the past 3 years. while in some respects this statement is true. it fails to point out that under the existing regulations the consumer is still tied to one supplier. this is a deplorable situation. yet thus far an insoluble one. i would hope. therefore. that my colleagues from new england. the middle atlantic states. as well as florida. would join us soon in a concerted effort toward rectifying this situation. only in this way can we hope for effective and quick results. in this regard. the legislature of the state of maine is to be commended for its courage in unanimously passing. at a special session of the legislature on january 16. 1964. a joint resolution calling for the removal or liberalization of import controls on residual fuel oil in the best interests of the consumer and the nation. i also point out that one of the things which is hurting latin america almost irretrievably. and which is bedeviling the alliance for progress. is the fact that the terms of trade are turning against rather than in favor of latin america. latin american exporters are constantly buying less u.s. goods instead of more. one of the great difficulties is the arbitrary restrictions placed on latin american exports. such as residual fuel oil. zinc. lead. and other commodities. for all these reasons. i renew my plea that the residual fuel oil quotas be withdrawn and that the plan be canceled.
. the new york state atomic research and development authority. a public benefit corporation created in 1962 by the legislature of new york. has for some time pioneered efforts by the states in the field of atomic energy. as my colleagues may recall. the authority early this year completed plans for the construction. with its own funds. of an advanced pulsed reactor at the malta test station in saratoga county. theast of schenectady. n.y. under the new york state research and development authoritys ownership and private industrys operation. the malta test station will be expanded into a complete space techogy and atomic radiationstar--center. to meet national defense requirements for the development and testing of equipment associated with military and aerospace programs. the principal users of the malta test station have been contractors of the national aeronautics and space administration. the u.s. air force. and the u.s. army. because federal service organization is operating to serve the combined testing needs of a group of federal agencies in scientific and techogical fields. the new york state authority believes it is demonstrating that a proper and useful role in this area may be assumed by the states. in april of this year. the new york state atomic research and development authority entered into an agreement with the long island lighting co. to undertake a joint program leading to the construction on eastern long island of the first dualpurpose. nuclearpowered. water desalting and electric generating plant of pilot plant size ever built. the plant is designed to demonstrate the technical feasibility of utilizing atomic energy for these combined purposes and will produce electricity at a level of between 2.500 and 6.000 kilowatts. and desalinized water at a level of between 1 and 4 million gallons a day. i am most gratified by the continued initiative and leadership of the new york state atomic research and development authority in this most important field of atomic energy and by its effective effort to accomplish a mission of national importance and value in conjunction with private industry. i ask unanimous consent that an anncement by the new york state atomic research and development authority concerning the new nuclearpowered water desalting and electric generating plan be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a release and report by the republican citizens committee critical issues council. headed by dr. milton s. eisenhower. reassessing the energy requirements of the united states for its future.
i thank the senator. disposals of property under this amendment would depend upon a determination by the commission that the action would help to reduce the adverse ecoic impact of reductions in the commissions activities in the richland area. the reduction in the production of plutonium annced by the president in his state of the union message in january 1964. will have its greatest impact at the commissions hanford works near richland. wash. beginning with the 6month period starting january 1. 1965. about 2.000 positions. or about 24 percent of the present employment level of some 8.300. will be affected. a vigorous effort by richland community leaders over the past few years has been directed at attracting new. diversified industry to the richland community. this effort has had the sympathetic support of the aec. the additional authority in section 4 would permit the commission to further assist the richland community leadership in its ecoic and industrial development efforts. it is important to keep in mind that the production cutbacks do  imply an end to richlands usefulness in the atomic energy program. to the contrary. the community remains of continuing importance to the national atomic energy program. many activities involving both the military and peaceful aspects of atomic energy are conducted at the hanford works. it is vital that. as the governments program for the production of special nuclear materials is lessened. the community remain viable to serve the commissions continuing requirements. in our view. this legislation will serve the objective of broadening the ecoic base of the richland community by creating new opportunities for private initiative and private enterprise. all dispositions of property under this legislation would be at the estimated fair market value or fair rental value. furthermore. all proposed dispositions would have to be submitted to the joint committee on atomic energy in order to assure that the terms and conditions of the dispositions are in the national interest. finally. section 5 of the bill would amend section 5 of the euratom cooperation act of 1958 by adding 40.000 kilograms of uranium 235 and 491 kilograms of plutonium to the amounts of these materials presently authorized for transfer to euratom. the bulk of the 40.000 kilograms of uranium 235 added by this amendment would be used for civilian power applications in the european atomic energy community. these amounts would be sold to euratom on a straightsale basis. at the same charges made for similar material distributed domestically. euratom will pay all shipping charges from the aec plant site. although firm supply contracts have  yet been executed. if the entire 40.000 kilograms were sold to euratom the return to the united states would be on the order of $300 million. return of this magnitude would. of course. help in alleviating our balanceofpayments problem. moreover. the assurance of a longterm supply of enriched uranium should be of assistance in encouraging the sale of u.s.-developed enriched uranium reactors abroad. with respect to the 491 additional kilograms of plutonium authorized by this amendment. this material will similarly be sold to euratom on a straight sale basis at a base sales price of approximately $43 per gram. euratom has already agreed to purchase 350 kilograms of plutonium which will be used in its fast breeder reactor research and development program. the return to the united states from the sale of this amount of plutonium is estimated at approximately $15 million. of which $11 million is expected to be received during fiscal year 1965. payment for the plutonium will be made in u.s. doflars. all material transferred to euratom is subject to the multination euratom safeguards system. in order to insure against diversion to military purposes. i should like to e. . that there are several mi printing errors in connection with the punctuation at the end of lines 23. 24. and 25 on page 3. i ask unanimous consent for the clerk to correct these errors. prior to engrossment.
 will give this appeal the fullest consideration and let us have his decision before the start of the next fuel oil import yearapril 1. 1965. i ask unanimous consent that the advertisement that appeared in this mornings washington post be printed in the record.
i could  agree more. in addition. we should  be in any way causing the agency to slow down. we ought to be taking the agency to task if it does  pile on the coal and speed up. congress should  be the one to reduce the authorization. we should  be the ones to instruct the agency to slow down. we ought to prod it and require it to do everything possible to get the maximum amount of kledge on this subject that it is possible to get. we should probably ask if there is  a need for $75 million instead of $55 million. assuming that the agency could justify the additional sum and justify the additional work.
. it has also been clearly established that the existing method of allocation is creating anticompetitive conditionsover 50 percent of the total import allocation on the east coast today is in the hands of four oil marketers. the remainder being allocated among the 56 other eligible importers. despite the 75.000 barrels a day increase in permissible imports the situation  facing consumers in new york and elsewhere remains untenable. it is therefore essential that the administration once again review the soundness of the continuation of these controls both from an ecoic point of view and from the point of view of national security. i also urge secretary udall. particularly. to examine closely recommendations submitted to him by electric utilities of new york for a more equitable method of allocating residual fuel oil. as long as the present program remains in effect. i ask unanimous consent that the story appearing in the new york times this morning as well as my own statement before secretary udalls hearings on the residual fuel oil program be included in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent that a defense department release dated april 2. containing secretary mcnamaras letter to the national coal policy conference. an editorial from the new york times of april 3. an editorial from the washington post of april 6. excerpts from secretary udalls press conference of march 31. as well as an article from the april 5 issue of the wall street journal. may be printed at this point in the record.
. the attorney general. the secretary of interior. the director of the office of emergency planning to review once more the overwhelming evidence developed over the years against residual fuel oil import controls and to abolish these controls prior to the start of the new fuel oil yearapril 1.
 has  acted or even had a chance to act. there must be accountability to congress for these onthespot decisions. third. the intelligence field is broad and complicated. congress needs expertise on these matters. and the staff of the joint committee would be a step in that direction. congress has demonstrated restraint and reliability in past cooperation with the executive branch in respect of intelligence. the joint atomic energy committee is a good example of this. there is little reason for the executive branch to fear that congress through the joint committee would  abuse this privilege. congress has the responsibility to exercise legislative oversight over future intelligence operations and activities on a closer. continuing. and formal basis. for these reasons. i join with the senator from ohio in cosponsoring s. 2815. a bill to establish a joint committee on the central intelligence agency.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to require the installation of emergency electric power equipment in hotels. theaters. restaurants. office buildings. retail establishments. and transportation terminals engaged in interstate commerce. designed to forestall wholesale public inconvenience and possible panic in power blackouts such as the one in the theast last ember. and the more recent occurrence in el paso. tex.. the bill requires installation of power equipment capable of providing emergency lighting. the measure contemplates the use of inexpensive. batteryoperated facilities to provide adequate power. emergency power to light a theater could be made available for under $100 by using these batterypowered facilities. which are presently in widespread use in pennsylvania. ember 9. 1965. will long be remembered in new york stateindeed in the entire theastas the night of the great blackout. in the midst of the homebound rush hour. millions were plunged into total darkness and deprived of all electric power. in the city of new york. this meant that thousands were trapped in elevators. hundreds of thousands were in subways and trains under the ground. and countless others moved homeward either on foot or in automobiles through dark and congested streetsor were stranded as were thousands that night. tens of thousands of apartment dwellers were also without water due to the failure of electric pumps. to the surprise of many. and to the great credit of urban mans endurance. there was panic during the blackout and. except for the extreme inconvenience. new yorkers appear to have muddled through virtually unscathed. the same could be said of el paso. tex.. which experienced a blackout even more recently. in the next blackout for whatever causeif there ever is a next blackoutwe may  be as fortunate. the federal power commission and the american public power association have both prepared extensive reports on the causes of the theast blackout. and have made suggestions to prevent a recurrence. these include a more extensive power grid. new authority for the federal power commission. tighter technical regulation of power distribution systems and a complete reevaluation of our resources and equipment. one relatively simple precaution although recommended. has  been acted upon. that is to require that all public buildings be equipped with emergency power facilities sufficient to provide electric light in the event of a power failure. pennsylvania has such a law. new york has one which applies to hospitals. theaters. and it will be ed that emergency lights were available in these institutions during the blackout. certainly. there are other forms of emergency electric power which would be desirable in the event of a blackout. but to require that all public buildings be equipped with entire auxiliary power systems would be both emously expensive and impractical. manual devices operating without electric power can be provided in elevators. for example. which would permit their being lowered to the nearest floor. but lights are essential. both to eliminate the possibility of panic. and to permit orderly exit. and power for lights can be provided by single unit. battery powered facilities at very little cost. power to light a theater. for example. could be assured by the installation of such a device costing well under $100. my bill would require the installation of such a device in all hotels. theaters. restaurants. office buildings. retail establishments. and transportation terminals engaged in interstate commerce. the secretary of commerce is given primary enforcement powers. but both inspection and enforcement functions would be delegated to appropriate state agencies where effective state laws exist. this proposal is simple. inexpensive. and practical. it would greatly alleviate inconvenience and would protect the public safety should power failures occur in the future. it is regrettable that such a law was  on the books last ember 9. but i urge that it be considered at the forthcoming commerce committee hearings.
. i think often we vote these matters with very few senators in the chamber and in the absence of any real kledge of what we are asked to vote on. and the tendency is to follow party lines or what we consider allegiances of the miity or majority. rather than on the merits of the issue. i submit that on its merits. this amendment should be adopted. it will follow the pattern of this legislation. it will make it a much better bill. i shall bear the burden of convincing senators of that statement if the senate will bear with me for less than 5 minutes. the bill before us is one to regulate safety of mines other than coal mines. the question to be resolved is what is the best way to protect the safety of mines. the most ecoic as well as the most efficient way. there is question about the bill vesting authority in the secretary of interior to promulgate standards of health and safety for all the mines. the question is. when. if at all. shall a state be entitled. if it shows itself capable of doing so. to take over the administration of the safety standards promulgated by the secretary of the interior. my amendment provides that if a state is qualified to do so. by its organization and personnel. and satisfies the secretary that it is able to enforce the standards which he has promulgated. it will take over the administration of the safety standards. the bill before us provides for dual inspection by the federal government and the state authorities. the essence of the amendment is that dual inspection is completely unnecessary. the safety standards being so tight that if the secretary does  approve a state plan. he then proceeds to take over the inspection. and if he first approves the plan and then ascertains that the standards are  being followed. he can revoke the approval of the state plan and then do the inspecting. this is the essence of the federalstate system. the bill is a hybrid. it follows the coal mine safety plan. although  entirely. because the coal mine pattern provides for joint inspection. and for a third inspector if the two can agree. the pending bill does  provide for breaking a deadlock. but the critical difference between what is planned for coal mine inspection and what we already have for coal mine inspection is that in coal mine inspection we are dealing with a relatively small number of states. in this bill. we are dealing with every state. because every state has some mining operations. even though it be only sand and gravel. when we have such widespread operations. let us  defer to the federal government as being the most efficient way to do it. the federal government will have 85 inspectors. it is inconceivableking how the government operates--if the bill as proposed is passed and the states are  given the authority to do it when they are able and qualified to take over effective administration of the bill. that the job will be done effectively. there will be a material expansion of the federal establishment. but as the senator from rhode island has said. it is unnecessary. the amendment is even tougher than the bill. the amendment requires the personnel of the state to be ready.willing. and able to do the job. the bill does  require that of the federal government. the secretary of the interior does  have the staff or facilities . and he can have them unless congress appropriates money for them. but if the state is to take over the inspection. under my amendment. it must be fully qualified to do so. then the secretary may select states such as new york. california. rhode island. and perhaps other states that are qualified to do it. many states may  be qualified. in which case the secretary of the interior will administer the law. i think we ought to vote to permit the states that are qualified to do the inspection. there is predilection on my part to thwart the passage of the bill. i am as liberal as anyone here. as i am sure senators k. but where there is compatibility between the federal system and federalstate system. i think we ought to adopt the one which is more efficient. what is the federal system for if it is  to encourage the adoption of the more efficient system.
. the reason for doing this is so that we might offer the complete matter to a conference committee. the senate version is  complete. it does  contain the coal mine safety version. i am  confident that our view will prevail. but as a member of the conference committee. i will honestly do my best to sustain the views of the senate. we must have the complete version incorporated in the bill.
i am grateful to the senator from florida for his support. . i might point out that because it is the majority leader and the miity leader i struck out the word "required" in line 5 and inserted "appropriate". and struck out in lines 6. 7. and 8 any specificity about the plan and inserted "a suitable electric public address system approved by them." to wit. the majority leader and the miity leader. to carry out the spirit with which i presented this matter.
 of the united statesjames a. garfield. the words of thenrepresentative garfield in the house debate on the proposal to create an office of education bear particular significance for us even today. on both sides of the aisle. he said: even the most extreme advocates of the principle of laissez faire as a sound maxim of political philosophy admit that governments must interfere in the aid of education. we must  wait for the wants of the rising generation to be expressed in a demand for means of education. we must ourselves discover and supply their needs. before the time for supplying them forever has passed.... he concluded his address on the house floor that day more than a century ago with this admonition: i appeal to those who care more for the future safety and glory of this nation than for any mere temporary advantage. to aid in giving to education the public recognition and active support of the federal government. i am sure we all will have occasion to recall these words of a great republican proponent of education as this congress progresses. one hundred years ago. when the office of education was born. we were a nation of 37 states with 39 million inhabitants. only one out of every five citizens could read and write. only 2 percent of those 17 years old had graduated from high school. today. a century of progress later. we number 50 states and 198 million people with a literacy rate of 98 percent. and 72 percent of our 17yearolds have completed high school. as the u.s. office of education marks its birthday. the 100 candles on its cake give us light. the office looks back on 100 years of growth and energy that mirror the growth and energy of our own country. and it looks forward to the future. the words of the great american essayist. ralph waldo emerson. ring true: the true test of civilization is  the census  the size of cities  the corps but the kind of man the country turns out. to the office of education. and its commissioner. mr. harold howe. i express best wishes for aher 100 years of youthful vigor.
. in accordance with my practice of many years. and following the precedent of disclosure laws in new york state. i hereby publish this list of companies subject to regulation by the federal government. in which i have an interestdirect or indirectin an amount exceeding $5.000. these are mal investments in publicly owned corporations and constitute element* of control alone or in combination with others. directly or indirectly: american & foreign securties corp. cities service corp. criterion insurance co. general telephone. government employees corp. government employees financial corp. government employees insurance co. government employees life insurance co.south. carolina electric & gas co.. southern co. storer broadcasting. may 1.7. 1967 transamerica corp. of delaware. first national city bank of new york. * western airlines.
. first. i compliment the senator upon the admirable statement he has made. he ks my love and affection for him. so i need  protest that. what the senator has discussed is critically important. but a further fact should be added. we are  taking over or americanizing israels struggle of selfdefense. we are dealing with a valorous small nation. which we relied on very heavily to protect our flank when we sent marines into leba some years ago. it is a nation whose prestige in military terms has risen very markedly with our own pentagon in recent years. i wish to ask the senator this question: does he  believe. in making the declaration he has madewith which i wish to associate myselfthat to acquiesce in mr. nassers aggression  only would damage the prestige of the united states but also would very likely open the door to such miscalculation in the middle east. and by the soviet union itself. as to make measurably more dangerous the possibility of aher world war. in addition. there is the question of the interdiction of the emous resources of the near east which still supply europes industrial machine with over 50 percent of the fuel it requires. these resources could be cut off even in a wanton way. considering the emotionalism. and almost the passion for selfdestruction. which one sees at this time in the arab world. i should. therefore. like to ask my colleague whether he would  consider it a fitting corollary to the proposition which he has annced to e that we are  dealing in this situation with the americanization of a conflict. on the contrary. are we  dealing with a small nation which is determined to secure its own survival. which has emous respect from our military authorities in terms of its own military capacity. and which has proven its reliability as an ally.
. today marks the completion of the initial phase of a gigantic project to bring muchneeded water out of lake ontario into odaga county. n.y. the new system will provide an immediate 35percent increase in the countys water supply. the huge facilities which have been built will provide a 25milliongallon average daily increase in the areas water supply. this accomplishment is a tribute to the perseverance and leadership of two late members of the community after whom two of the major facilities are named. the citizens committee was headed by alexander f. "casey" jones. former executive editor of the syracuse heraldamerican. the vice chairman of the committee was the late john j. farrell. a general electric co. official who headed the metropolitan water board. the fact that the original june 1. 1967. completion date remained unchanged since the project was begun in june of 1964 attests to the unswerving dedication of the entire community headed by county executive john mulroy. i ask unanimous consent that an article on this subject. which was published in the syracuse heraldamerican of sunday. may 14. 1967. be printed in the record.
. i wish to call to the senates attention an article which appeared in business week for august 12. 1967. under the subject. "business abroad." the article concerns a concept of david e. lilienthal. whom we all k and remember as head of the tennessee valley authority and the atomic energy commission. and who is  engaged in a private enterprise helping the developing countries. he is doing an extraordinary and constructive job along lines which i have always advocated and which i have been fighting for continually to take advantage of our private enterprise techniques. i ask unanimous consent that the article to which i have referred be made a part of my remarks.
. i have been concerned with recent reports indicating that a tight supply situation is developing in new york and in other east coast states that could result in higher prices for millions of consumers for  2 household heating fuel oil. inasmuch as it appears that the principal reason for the current shortage is an insufficient supply of u.s.-flag tankers. on september 20 i wrote secretary mcnamara requesting that to the maximum feasible extent the department of defense release u.s.-flag tankers it uses so that they could be used to transport this fuel from the gulf coast to new york and other east coast ports. today i received a reply from the department of defense. in that letter i am informed that the  2 fuel oil situation on the east coast is improving. as one of the factors the department of defense reply cites the "recent" return to the commercial trade of four u.s.-fiag vessels chartered by the department of defense. it also indicates that five more such vessels are scheduled to return to this trade by ember 15. 1967. this is good news. so that the public record may be complete on this matter i ask unanimous consent that my letter to secretary mcnamara and the department of defenses reply of september 29 i received today be printed in the record at this point. while the  2 fuel oil situation may be improvingand the relief provided by the oil imports appeals board on september 27 by granting import quotas to several east coast  2 fuel oil suppliers has contributed importantly to thatthe winter season itself will determine whether the supplies are adequate and this situation bears therefore constant watching. i assure the senate that i will do so and i urge that all interested senators do the same.
. for some time . i have watched with close attention the  2 home heating fuel oil situation in new york and on the east coast. as this fuel is used by millions of new yorkers as home heating fuel during the winter. i have been in close touch with the fuel oil distributors in new york. with secretary of defense mcnamara. and with secretary of interior stuart udall. on september 20 i wrote to secretary mcnamara requesting that he release u.s.-flag tankers needed to transport  2 fuel oil from the u.s. gulf area to the east coast. in the departments reply of september 29. i was informed that four dodchartered u.s.-fiag vessels were released to commercial trade in september and five additional vessels were to be released on ember 15. on ember 8. i wrote secretary udall requesting that he furnish me with a detailed report on the adequacy of stocks of  2 fuel oil on the east coast. on the current price situation. and the relationship of import controls to the existing supply situation. i also urged secretary udall that the federal government do all within its power to insure that adequate supplies of  2 heating fuel oil are available to east coast consumers during the coming winter at the most reasonable cost. in his reply. which i received yesterday. assistant secretary of the interior cordell moore informed me that inventories as of ember 10 had risen to almost 81 million barrels. the highest level for comparable date in the history of the fuel distribution industry and almost 21/2 million barrels or 3 percent higher than the same date last year. he confirmed the earlier statement made by the department of defense that the tanker situation had substantially eased with the return of u.s.-flag vessels under military charter to gulf coasteast coast service. he also informed me that production runs are at an unusually high level. distillate fuel production running as high as 28 percent per crude barrel in some periods. he reports that retail prices of this fuel in septemberthe latest month for which statistics are available from the bureau of labor statisticswere up 0..9 cent per gallon in new york as compared to a year ago. a very serious increase of roughly 5 percent. apparently. increased transportation costs contributed to this price rise. however. secretary moore indicates that with the improved supply picture. discounting of wholesale prices. is  taking place. one of the questions that has been raised is whether or  relaxation of import controls at this time could further improve the supply situation. according to the interior department. heating oil supplies are much tighter outside the united states where the middle east crisis and the closure of the suez canal had a more serious impact. price rises have been four or five times higher in large european markets than in new york. for example. the situation is reportedly extremely tight in the caribbean producing areas. raising the question whether heating oil imports could be substantially increased on an immediate and temporary basis. as further evidence of the tight supply situation abroad. assistant secretary moore informs me that one of the companies which received 60 percent of the total allocation by the oil import appeals board recently informed the board that it would  be able to obtain supplies before the end of the year and requested that it be allowed to carry over its unused tickets into next year. unlike  6 fuel oil. most of which is imported into the united states from abroad. 98 percent of the east coast supplies come from u.s. refineries with imports accounting for  more than 2 percent of consumption. judging from the information supplied to me in this letter by secretary cordell moore. i believe the  2 fuel oil situation is in reasonably good shape and should be allowed to remain as is for the moment. i remain seriously concerned about the higher retail prices of this fuel and will therefore continue to keep a close watch on this situation. on ember 15 i wrote chairman smathers of the small business committee of which i am ranking miity member informing him that a problem may exist regarding  2 fuel supplies which the committee should look into. on ember 21 senator smathers replied to me indicating that the committee will inquire with the secretary of the interior regarding the current and future situation of  2 fuel oil supplies on the east coast and that he will decide on the necessity for hearings should secretary udalls reply warrant it. i ask unanimous consent that my exchange of correspondence with secretary mcnamara. secretary udall. and chairman smathers be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i am very grateful to the senator from washington. who is kn in the senate as one of our prime experts on defense policy. i am very pleased he is in essential agreement with my own analysis of the situation. neither he  i. is given to dreaming up tough situations. i think it is critically important. especially when the administrationand we can understand itseems to be overwhelmingly involved with vietnam at the cost of even the mental powers and time and energy one can give. that we call attention to the confrontation between the soviet union and ourselves in the mediterranean.
. i publicly commend these newsmen for their efforts. they have  only won an award but have earned the gratitude of all new yorkers for clarifying the elements of this important debate. the outcome of which could greatly affect the supply and cost of electric power in our state for many years.
. i do  k that there is any valid distinction between grants and contracts such as what the senator from colorado would wish to carry through. as a member of the appropriations committee. i do  believe anything ought to be swept under the rug. if the manager of the bill feels that this is a subject that ought to be considered in conference. with the aid of the expertise which various people can bring to it. including colleges and universities and contractors affected. i can understand that. and i am  going to make a great issue of it. but i think the senate ought to be assured that. if any such action is sought to be taken in conference. at least we will have the understanding that a body of experts will be available to back up whatever the conferees propose to do. i say that for the reason that we have $7 billion involved in this appropriation bill. the majority leader. the senator from montana . a very important senator. says this is a precedent and he is going to press the matter in other quarters as well. it could well be that two things could happen: that. one. an indirect cost will go to direct cost and save hing. and. two. we may discourage useful people like general electric from undertaking these contracts at all because they are  worthwhile. that is  unusual. it has happened before. and we may deprive the united states. therefore. of a great deal of the brains and skills which we find in the whole free enterprise system and the university system. so i am  standing here to oppose what the manager of the bill proposes. but i do express the feeling. as one senator. that if the conferees should come back with some definitive proposal. it would be very clear that there is basis in fact. as we have it . profound and searching egh to determine this kind of finding in law. i would certainly want to have one that is reasonably persuasive. if the conferees act affirmatively on this matter.
i would like to add one further point. the senator has seen figures that show that the ecoy of india is substantially in private hands. fiftyfour percent of the ida loans are infrastructure loans to indiathat is. for the development of ports. electric power. and so forth. hence we are contributing to the very thing we are fighting for. and i hope we are  too blind to see it.
. the bill would make a number of changes in existing law. among the most important are the following: first. the federal program would be directed at preventing all types of accidents in coal mines.  just socalled major disasters. second. surface coal mines. previously excluded from coverage under the law. would be covered. third. the secretary of the interior would be given the power to promulgate. by regulation. health and safety standards. presently the standards are codified in the law and thus legislation is required to improve them. the standards  in the law are those originally enacted in 1952. they have  been updated for 17 years. fourth. for the first time. standards for permissible levels of coal dustthe cause of coalworkers pneumoconiosis or "black lung" as it is more commonly calledwould be established. an interim standard of 4.5 milligrams per cubic meter of air would go into effect 60 days after the effective date of the act for most mines and the secretary would be required to set a date by which the standard would be brought down to 3 milligrams per cubic meter of air. miners showing signs of pneumoconiosis would have to be given respirators or assigned to work places where the coal dust level was less than 2 milligrams. fifth. pending promulgation of standards by the secretary. interim safety standards. some of which are considerably stricter than existing standards. would go into effect 120 days after the effective date of the act. the standards would cover ventilation. roof supports. electrical equipment. maps. fire protection. combustible materials. and blasting. among other things. sixth. the distinction between gassy and gassy mines would be ended. all mines would be treated as gassy. seventh. civil penalties up to $10.000 could be assessed against operators who violate health or safety standards. criminal penalties could be imposed on anyone who kingly violates or falls or refuses to comply with a withdrawal order. eighth. every underground mine would have to be inspected at least three times per year and the secretary would be given power to train and appoint qualified coal mine inspectors. ninth. state efforts in the field of coal mine health and safety would continue to be encouraged by retention of the provisions relating to state plans and state participation in inspections in existing law. tenth. a broad program of research. education and training would be undertaken by the federal government. the states would also be encouraged to undertake these activities through federal grants.
. the new york times sunday magazine of march 31. 1969. contains an article written by ben a. franklin. the appalachian regional correspondent of the times. which states the case. in the strongest possible terms. for an effective federal coal mine safety law. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the article be printed in the record.
. i wish to make clear my strong support for the pending agreement which will be of tangible benefit to the nation and to the state of new york. the erosion of the american falls at niagara has been a matter of serious concern to conservationistsparticularly in new. york statefor many years. at last. we have before us for approval an important and technically feasible first step toward a lasting solution for the preservation of the american falls through advanced hydroengineering techniques. the work which is proposed to be undertaken  only will seek to saveand correct past damage toa great natural wonder and worldfamous tourist attraction. the niagara falls are also an important source of hydroelectric power which is vital to the ecoic wellbeing of. particularly. the thern regions of new york state. the new york state power authority has cooperated in the preparation of these plans and fully supports them. here we have a happy union of the conservationists cause and enlightened ecoic exploitation of hydropower. in addition. we must . in my judgment. overlook a most crucial aspect of this proposed legislationthe fact that it is a cooperative agreement between the united states and canada. as such. it is a good example of the kind of mutual planning and cooperation which must continue to be the hallmark of united statescanadian relations.
i have one other question. if we pursue the doctrine that the only time the united states can safely negotiate is when we have the edgewhen we have nuclear "superiority." as he calls itis it  logical to suppose that they think the same way about their security and that we simply can then come to an agreement. both sides can enjoy "superiority." but. both sides can have nuclear "sufficiency." as president nixon has so wisely suggested. most objective strategic experts believe that both the united states and the u.s.s.r. do have a "sufficiency" of nuclear power to insure their security under present conditions. that is why the prevailing situation is such a logically compelling stopping point in the nuclear arms race.
. in coal mines. just as in any other working place reverberations and other se may cause problems. this is an effort to meet those problems in a comprehensive coal mine health and safety bill. and hence its introduction here. under this amendment. proposed standards for se levels would have to be promulgated within 6 months after enactment. i ask for favorable action.
. i fully share senator symingtons concern over the effect of our oil import program on our petrochemical industry. particularly as it affects the export capability of this vital sector of our ecoy. the amounts involved are relatively  great. but the impact of the restrictions on the industry is very great. the oil import program helps to insure that the petrochemical industry has to pay significantly more for its raw materialcrude oil feedstocksthan competing industry in other countries of the world. the net effect of this program as it affects the petrochemical industry is an artificial inflation of the price of domestic raw materials. a distortion of the investment decisions of u.s. producers. limitation of industry growth potential and the placing of u.s. petrochemical producers at a competitive disadvantage with foreign producers.  it would also seem likely that. if the current artificially high prices of crude oil continue. a shift of our petrochemical facilities from the u.s. to other nations could well result in an export of jobs which would further compound the adverse effects of the current program. indeed. the impact of these ecoic distortions is already being felt. foreign competitors. enjoying plentiful supplies of low cost crude oil feedstocks reportedly have increased their capacities dramatically in the last ten years during which the oilimport program was in effect. their competitive position. once negligible. is  felt  only abroad. but also in the u.s. itself where petrochemical imports have more than tripled since 1964. my review of this situation as well as that governing the import of heating oil leads me to believe that there is substantial merit in in the suggestion that current restrictions be substantially liberalized. in the case of new york state. liberalization can be easily accomplished by opening existing pipelines a while longer and allowing additional canadian crude oil to flow across the border.
before leaving the chamber. i should like to inform my colleagues. if i could have their attention. that i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare which just handled the coal mine safety bill. that bill was drafted by the senator from new jersey and myself. one of the big problems that we had was to reconcile safety with ecoics. the senator from kentucky is laying before us a very grave problem affecting small miners. where we are trying to impose heavy safety precautions. and it costs money to provide them. i should like to say to my colleagues who are interested in safety that what the senator from kentucky is  proposing is a way in which the small mine operator can be helped. we knew he had to be helped. we tried to get him small business loans and other things. which is a kind of long way around. but i think the senator. with his tax amendment. has something which can directly help him. and i hope my fellow senators will give the greatest sympathy to the senators proposition. i testify to my colleagues that one of the bases of the coal mine safety bill was an attempt to reconcile ecoics with human life. we did the best we could. but what senator cooper is  proposing would help us immeasurably to do justice on the ecoic scale.
. i am very pleased the senator from west virginia has taken this initiative. especially since he comes from a strong coal mining state. i hope we all join in this effort and that we will be creative about it.  letting up on it  treating it as the interest of one particular senator. one of the hottest international situations today is attributable to the fact that the energy resources of the industry of western europe and japan are concentrated in the middle east. this does  have to be and. hence. the proposal of the senator from west virginia is of critical importance in a strategic sense.
. the majority leader has spoken for all of us in expressing our sympathy. i woud like to add just one point. i am the ranking member of the committee that worked out and got passed the coal mine safety bill. i ice my distinguished colleague from west virginia. who was the other part of that team. on his feet also. i can assure the senator from kentucky if it is of any solace. though i k the situation is too tragic for that. that we certainly will dig into the question with the greatest urgency. in order to find out what is wrong with our own handiwork. if any fault can be attributed to it.
. one of the significant features of the coal mine health and safety act passed by congress in 1969 was a provision in title iv providing for the payment of special -benefits to the victims of coal workers pneumoconiosis. better kn as black lung. as -i was deeply involved in the shaping. of the provisions of title iv. i have been following closely hews implementation of its provisions. over a year has  passed since enactment of this law. and i believe that the senate will be interested in king the results achieved under title iv in the payment of benefits to black.lung. victims. i therefore ask unanimous consent that a progress report to me dated january 26. 1971. from robert m. ball. commissioner of social security. be printed in the record. at this point. 
i thank the senator for that fine statement. i only supplement what i heretofore have said in answer to the senator from vermont . when he posed his question. by stating that certainly our national interest and our security interest are directly involved in this entire situation in the eastern mediterranean. that does  mean we have to commit in advance how we would react in any given set of circumstances in order to meet a danger to our national interests. i think it would be unwise to do so. it has been proper to state it also would be a threat to europe and nato. that it involves greece and turkey. and nations like iran to the east. and it involves japan. which draws an emous amount of energy resources. even more than europe. from the middle east. it is one thing to say our national interests are heavily involved and aher to make prior commitments of armed activity in advance of king what is going to happen. the whole thrust of what i have to say and what i have heard from the senator from washington is that we want to be sure of israels viability to maintain itself is upheld as an important element in the security interest and national interest of many countries. including the united states. and that it is  diluted. blunted. or destroyed by some prior conditions written for a peace settlement. before there is any real opportunity to have the parties work one out. i wish to turn  to my prepared remarks.
. i oppose the nelson amendment. for the following reasons: i think it could be decisive for the voting pattern here what happens on the first vote. if the majority leader had risen and said. "i would like to incorporate the nelson amendment in my amendment. withstanding the yeas and nays." i am sure one would have objected. but that is  our situation. the situation is that the nelson amendment is ostensibly a compromise. if it is adopted. the theory might be that those who join in adopting it may then feel "a compromise has been obtained. we will go to the main event." this. i think. would be a disastrous mistake for our country. for this reason. basically: the situation in europe is in the balance as to whether the united states will or will  continue to be the backstop for european defense. it is very clear that europe is conscious of the fact that it is incapable of its own defense against the full nuclear power of the ussr. if the united states gives the signaland it does  even matter whether the mansfield amendment is going to be enacted lawat the end. it is the senate vote that counts. that is why. at great personal sacrifice. i and many others axe here today. the senate vote will count. it will signal to europe. "dont depend on us. count us out. make your own arrangements." what are the consequences of that. europe has 20 divisions or more. we have four and onethird. europe is spending $20 billion and more. we are spending. even at the figure cited by senator mansfield. $14 billion.
. the problem of offshore oil drilling and oil spills which has plagued the pacific coast shows sign of moving east. there have been indications that leases for offshore oil drilling in the atlantic ocean might be sold by the department of the interior. while this has  yet been done. long island residents have been understandably concerned about the possibility of oil drilling off the coast of long island. representative man lent. who is from long island. has discussed the situation cogently in an article published in newsday of august 4. 1971. representative lent. in this article suggests an amendment to the ocean dumping legislation pending in the house which would ban oil drilling in coastal waters off long island if those waters are designated as "marine sanctuaries." this amendment should be carefully considered. i ask unanimous consent that representative lents article be printed in the record.
before leaving the chamber. i should like to inform my colleagues. if i could have their attention. that i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare which just handled the coal mine safety bill. that bill was drafted by the senator from new jersey and myself. one of the big problems that we had was to reconcile safety with ecoics. the senator from kentucky is laying before us a very grave problem affecting small miners. where we are trying to impose heavy safety precautions. and it costs money to provide them. i should like to say to my colleagues who are interested in: safety that what the senator from kentucky is  proposing is a way in which the small mine operator can be helped. we knew he had to be helped. we tried to get him small business loans and other things. which is a kind of long way around. but i think the senator. with his tax amendment. has something which can directly help him. and i hope my fellow senators will give the greatest sympathy to the senators proposition. i testify to my colleagues that one of the bases of the coal mine safety bill was an attempt to reconcile ecoics with human life. we did the best we could. but what senator cooper is  proposing would help us immeasurably to do justice on the ecoic scale.
. i wish to emphasize again that the bill in its present form represents the absolute outer limit to which we in good conscience can go in having the federal government pay for decades of utter neglect by the coal mining industry of the life and health of the coal miners. as long ago as 1942 it was kn that coal mining was a hazard to the health of the coal miners. in that year great britain began paying compensation to miners who had contracted what is kn as black lung or pneumoconiosis. along with recognition of black lung s a compensable disease in european countries came efforts to limit the amount of respirable coal dust to which miners were exposed during their working lives. for over 25 years the hazardous nature of coal dust was simply iged in this country. efforts were made to control it in the mines.  was compensation available for the thousands of miners who became respiratory cripples because of it. it was  until we wrote the coal mine health and safety act of 1969 that industry was forced to come to grips with the problem. and even then. it is worth ing that the industry vigorously resisted efforts to establish a level of respirable coal dust which would guarantee that miner would become disabled because of black lung. and while it is  directly relevant to the problem with which this bill seeks to deal. it is certainly interesting to e that withstanding the industrys contention that the reduction is dust levels mandated by the new law would  be feasible. according to the latest information released by the bureau of mines. 90 percent of u.s. coal mines are meeting the 3 milligrams standard established by the 1969 act. and 75 percent are meeting the 2 milligrams standard.
. on monday last. the senate passed an amended version of the black lung benefits bill. despite the 73to0 vote of the senate. it is well kn that this bill is actually highly controversial. it is opposed. albeit for different reasons. by the administration and the coal -industry. i believe that the senate version of the bill is preferable. both with respect .o the manner in which the benefits program is liberalized and with respect to the granting of only a 1year extension to the industry before it assumes responsibility for payment of the new claims. rather than the 2year extension provided by the house bill. i am happy to e that the new york times today has expressed its editorial support for the senate bill on both counts. i ask unanimous consent that the times editorial be printed in the record.
 of brown university. and we were very much taken. for example. with the work of the haley commission on the resources of the country and when those resources would be used up. many of us are deeply concerned  with the energy use in this country. many of us are concerned with spot problems in the country. such as drug addiction. venereal disease. and all of the social trends having subsequent consequences which pipe into what we ought to be doing in terms of the nations society. however. there is group in the nation such as a council on social advisers which ties it together. the fact is that the gifted idea of the senator from minnesota to this bill represents an addition to the new world. call it the new politics. the new development needs. or the new development conscience which is perhaps best characterized by the environmentalists and population control people. these are new problems which have hit us in life. simply put. the council would keep us abreast of the facts and remind us that our practices are longer adequate.
s energy message deputy secretary of the treasury william simon and the secretary of the interior rogers morton have been addressing themselves forcefully to the need to conserve energy with particular reference to gasoline. i have had an exchange of correspondence with the secretary of the treasury george shultz on the need to take measures to conserve our consumption of petroleum products. since this exchange of letters is germane to issues  before the congress. i ask unanimous consent that this exchange in correspondence be printed at this point in the record.
. i believe this is a splendid amendment. i hope that the senator from minnesota will tack it on to every departmental bill we have before us to which it can properly. under the procedure. be attached. this is the way in which to make a contribution to correcting the energy crisis. i congratulate the senator for offering the amendment.
 and congress within 30 days of enactment on all activities over which they have jurisdiction that could result in increased energy supplies. because of this important provision. i do  think any specific amendment directed at federal power commission authority is necessary. but i do want to emphasize that it is my understanding. and i will ask the senator from washington to explain further. that the congress expects federal agencies. such as the federal power commission. to make thorough and comprehensive reviews of its pending applications and its procedures. so that the congress may be quickly informed of any necessary changes in the regulatory structure that would result in significant energy supply benefits.
 can only direct such action to meet the energy needs during this emergency period. and it is with this immediate energy situation in mind that appropriate action will be taken on the part of the environmental protection agency. i had wanted to offer a short clarifying amendment to make these points explicit but i have been assured that this is the interpretation of the act shared by the senator from washington and that there was need for an amendment on these points. is my understanding correct.
. all of us in congress are facing a challenge of extraordinary dimensions. the energy crisis raises profoundly difficult problems relating to the ecoy. federal regulation of energy production. supply and distribution and enforcement of those regulations on a fair and equitable basis. levels of unemployment. transportation. consumer protection. environmental standards. international trade. and a whole host of problems relating to the ways in which millions of americans live their daily lives. the wisdom and fairness with which we accept that responsibility may determine to an important extent the quality of life enjoyed by our citizens for many years to come. while congress and the administration will attack this problem on many fronts. i believe the bill we introduce today is a most important building block toward a comprehensive solution.
the table itself. of course. tion in the amendment as originally indicates the states which would be drafted. which dealt with the problem affected. but i would like to read into the of exhaustees--that is. those who had record the states which the best esti- exhausted their benefits. in all logic. that mates that are available indicate would is the way it ought to be. but after conbe triggered so that they could be in the sultation with the experts on the finance program in the ensuing year. these are committee and our being advised that alaska. california. idaho. maine. massa- that might present more difficulties in conference than going to the straight 4percent trigger which is already in the law. we are only omitting that part which deals with the 120percent historic trigger. feeling that it would be better and far more certain if we left out the exhaustees. so. without attempting to be obdurate. i have left the exhaustees out. that makes it more doubtful about those two states. louisiana and wisconsin. actually being in the program. but as to the other 22. the estimate is clear that that is what the amendment is providing. at a time when all of us are deeply concerned about the effect on our ecoy of the energy crisis and many other things. it seems only forehanded that we provide ourselves with this tool of independent protection. . i ice the senator from connecticut is on his feet. i would like to say that there has been much sympathy to this approach by many members of the senate. the senator from connecticut as a member of the finance committee is in a position to give us a very authoritative point of view
. it is  without some concerns that i support a program which will have such far- reaching ramifications on the lives of every american. it is with this in mind that i propose to insist that the administration of any federal allocations program be undertaken with the following objectives clearly in mind: first. any adverse job impact of the energy shortage must be minimized to the greatest extent possible and held within tight limit. second. allocation programs must be developed and promulgated in an atmosphere of openness and public hearing. third. the energy resources we have must be allocated fairly among all geographic areps of the country. fourth. regulations must be simply designed and fairly enforced with a minimum degree of government bureaucracy. and fifth. the fea should study and recommend incentives to conserve on energy consumption of all kinds.
. i have one further amendment that deals with a different point. it modifies the goals section. 206 (a). to further coordinate this bill with the aims of our national energy policy. it states that one of the goals of the system. and only to the maximum extent practicable. is to preserve trackage in areas where fossil fuel natural resources are located. this will  require that service on such trackage be continued where otherwise it would  be consistent with the other goals. it merely provides that such trackage be preserved where possible. we should  be too quick to rip up such trackage when we may need it in an emergency at some future time. transportation of energy resources must be protected. this is one of the lessons we have learned from the present energy crisis. this amendment will help to prevent it from happening again.
. there is one other point which is very important. and that is that the $1.5 billion which is continued contains $237 million for the neighborhood youth corps summer program. that is the same rate for the neighborhood youth corps activity which was carried on in 1973. in 1974. it is expected. according to the way i read the conference. that their disposition will be to carry on the same size program. and as i say. even the $1.5 billion. which is the rate of current expenditure involving that particular provision. is the minimum amount required for that purpose. and even that. probably is inadequate in terms of rising costs and the situation that may result from the energy crisis. i would like to tell the appropriations committee. if i may ask the indulgence of the chairman. the senior senator from arkansas. that we tried to act upon that measure a lot earlier than we have in the past.
. i wish to ask the senator from minnesota what his premise is. i think that is decisive. in other words. is the authority being transferred to the federal energy emergency administration including or excluding coal. let me point out to the senator sections in this bill. section 102(a). which is the finding of congress. reads: (1) shortages of crude oil. residual fuel oil. and refined petroleum products. as well as shortages of other forms of energy ... that may or may  include coal. it goes on to say in section 102(a) (2): (2) the shortages in the supply of available forms of energy have created an energy emergency which requires emergency measures to reduce energy consumption. increase domestic production of energy resources. and provide for the equitable distribution of available supplies to all americans. that might include coal or it might . certainly. it would include some energy resources. in section 105(a). items (1) and (2) relate to the office of energy conservation and the office of energy data analysis as being transferred. question: do they include coal. finally. i come to the pertinent section. which the senator is dealing with in his amendment. transferring the cost of living councils function respecting the pricing. it relates to the energy division of the cost of living council. i understandi hope the senator can straighten this outthat the energy division of the cost of living council does include coal.
 i think the amendment. which i am cosponsoring. is highly desirable in that it would establish a fair and effective due process procedure. especially as the administrator is taking over the costofliving functions in respect of energy pricing. i think that the procedure developed by the senator from maryland is an admirable one. i favor that amendment both as a senator and as a lawyer. i hope that the amendment will be accepted. i join with the senator from maryland in asking the managers of the bill to accept the amendment.
. there is one other point which is very important. and that is that the $1.5 billion which is continued contains $237 million for the neighborhood youth corps. summer program. that is the same rate for the neighborhood youth corps activity which was carried on in 1973. in 1974. it is expected. according to the way i read the conference. that their disposition will be to carry on the same size program. and as i say. even the $1.5 billion. which is the rate of current expenditure involving that particular provision. is the minimum amount required for that purpose. and even that. probably is inadequate in terms of rising costs and the situation that may result from the energy crisis. i would like to tell the appropriations committee. if i may ask the indulgence of the chairman. the senior senator from arkansas. that we tried to act upon that measure a lot earlier than we have in the past.
this is a very important point. and it is important to avoid confusion. we have given exactly similar jurisdiction under the japanese peace treaty. the antarctic treaty. and the statute of the international atomic energy agency. which i am sure are regarded as threat whatever. and i believe that should be made very clear in this debate.
. i thank the distinguished majority leader. i join in everything that he has had to say. the resolution only touches the bases which we believe should be touched in such a coordinated effort as represents the fulfillment of the purposes of this energy conference. we do  in any way indicate. and certainly do  intend to indicate. what our attitude in the congress would be. however. we simply express our concurrence in the items that have to be dealt with if this conference is to fulfill its mission and if the secretary of state feels that this action will strengthen his hand in addressing himself to these various items. i am delighted very much that the senate has agreed to the resolution. also. i again emphasize that we have tried in every way  to commit the senate or any member of the senate or of the congress to what will be our ultimate wishes in this matter. etheless. the secretary will speak to many major subjects with the kledge of the participants that these are the subjects which the senate wants discussed. that would be very helpful.
subsequently said: . this morning in the absence of any objection. senate resolution 279. which i sponsored with both of the majority and miity leaders. was agreed to as a sense of the senate resolution respecting the washington energy conference. the secretary of state felt that it would be helpful as he goes into these very critical negotiations. i did  move to reconsider the vote by which the resolution was agreed to. the resolution is at the desk. i invite members of the senate to read it carefully and. if possible. to join in it or. if they feel that they have any objection. to please let me or the leadership k. copies are available to members.
. commissioner nyquists report covers elementary and secondary schools in new york state. a report in the january 28 issue of the chronicle of higher education indicates that colleges and universities face a similar impact. the fuel bill for columbia university. in new york city. has risen from $940.000 to $1.926.000. the heating bill at the university of vermont. for example. has doubled since last year and its electricity bill has increased by 13 percent. yale university spent $675.000 a year for fuel 40 months ago. its current expenditures are $4.7 million. and decreased consumption is  averting sharply increased costs for institutions of higher education throughout the nation. i ask unanimous consent that the chronicle article to which i have referred be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
our nations schools. beset already with financial difficulties. can ill afford the deficit financing and new borrowing which mounting fuel prices impose upon them. this fuel cost problem is  limited to schools and colleges. it is impacting on every purchaser of home heating oil and residual fuel oil in the theast. because the theast region is heavily dependent on imported product. this situation is plainly at odds with both administration and congressional policy. enunciated in the mandatory petroleum allocation act. to foster an equal sharing of the burdens of the energy crisis among the people of the nation. at the very least. the duly elected representatives of the american people should formally consider feos proposed  2 fuel oil price regulations by urging that it be expanded to  4 and  6 fuel oils and that the imbalances be corrected on a national basis. only by such action can it be said that the inflationary burdens of this national energy emergency are being equitably distributed. i have called for a meeting with federal energy office officials to discuss these regional price disparities. this meeting will be held today. i urge the support of my colleagues in the senate for my proposal to the feo to take action on these unfair and discriminatory price differences. which are forcing budget deficits for school districts. colleges and universities. increased utility rates. and severe price squeezes for landlords and housing huthorities. the federal energy offices action on this problem to date has been minimal and inadequate. on monday. feo published for comment proposed regulations that would have the effect of evening out price disparities in  2 fuel oilhome heating oil and diesel fuelin the eastern states. this is only a small part of the problem. it is outrageous that buyers in eastern states should have to pay up to twice the price for heating oil and residual fuel than purchasers in other areas of the country. it violates one of the principal objectives of the mandatory allocation program. prices must be evened out nationally regionallyand all fuel products should be included in the price equalization just  2 fuel oil. it is time that the rhetoric about sharhig the burdens of the energy crisis be converted to meaningful administrative action. if this is our avowed policy. let us begin to put it to work. because this policy has already been explicitly spelled out in legislation. i do  propose further laws. rather. i call for administrative action to implement the policy of enacted legislation.
. i hope that the administration will see fit to support this legislation and we can move very speedily on it. as it affects this fiscal year. of course. similar provisions will have to be made for future years. but we should  wish to impede the chances of immediate action on this measure by raising the overall question of the continuation of the office of ecoic opportunity and antipoverty legislation beyond the expiration of the authorizations of appropriations under the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 this junea continuation which i urge. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the text of the bill and a copy of an excellent comment which appeared in the new york times of saturday. february 9. by ver jordan. executive director of the national urban league. entitled "the energy crisis: for blacks. a disproportionate burden." which relates to the human aspects of the energy crisis.
. i wish to address an inquiry to the manager of the bill on the majority side which will deal with two of the amendments which were printed on my behalf as of this morning. one is the amendment relating to the reduction of the license fee on refined oil to be equivalent to the license fee on crude oil which was as provided for in the original bill. my amendment is  1845. the amendment  pending at the desk. which is the amendment of the manager of the bill. does exactly what i propose and. with his permission. i would like to ask unanimous consent to be joined as a cosponsor of that amendment. and i so request.
. as a ranking member of this subcommittee. i would be less than frank with the senate if i did  say i have very grave doubts about curtailing daylight saving in view of the fact that we are very deep in the energy crisis and are going to be deeper. one of the most shameful things in this country is that we have so quickly forgotten the gas lines and are abandoning all thoughts of conservation. i appreciate the practical problems of my colleagues on this bill and so i am going to go along with it and take it to conference. but i could  in conscience just say that without indicating my own views as an individual senator. when the voice is called for. i will vote ""
i wish to make my foregoing statement a matter of record. as i shall be a conferee. and when i am a conferee. i defend like a tiger everything the senate has done. i have  had an opportunity to examine this amendment.  have i had advance ice of it. i am going to take it on faith from senators ribicoff and percy and go with it. but i did want to make the reservation that i shall check it out in terms of whether or  it actually tends to facilitate or inhibit the development of nuclear power in this country.
. i have received a letter from the chairman of the new york state public service commission. the agency responsible for the regulation of electric and gas utilities in my state. regarding the proposal totally to deregulate all new natural gas prices. chairman kahn points out the dangers to consumers. both commercial and individual. from such an action without at the same time providing any assurance that the move would substantially increase our domestic supplies of natural gas. which we all recognize is urgently needed. i think it is imperative that the congress move with dispatch on this issue. but the buckley amendment. as chairman kahn stresses. is the wrong way to achieve these objectives. certainty of future prices. combined with a fair profit for all new productian. is the greatest incentive to bring new supplies of natural gas onstream. we have delayed much to long on this critical issue. jobs will be lost and production will decline if we do  act soon. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from chairman kahn be printed in the record.
. howard metzenbaums term in the senate has been short. but i am certain that my colleagues join me in wishing him success in whatever he may undertake. he is to be commended especially for his efforts in the area of energy conservation. i also e that during his career. howard metzenbaum has shown courage and a pioneering spirit. in 1960 he had the foresight to speak out against the vietnam war. a stand which at the time was considered unpopular. it is also important to mention that in 1949 as a member of ohios state legislature. howard metzenbaumalso a businessmanauthored one of the nations first consumer protection laws. i wish him every success and for him and his family much happiness in the years ahead.
 to impose import fees on gasoline and crude oil refined into gasoline but prohibit the imposition of tariffs on any other petroleum imports for 60 days. i hope that others will give serious consideration to this compromise to provide an atmosphere of cooperation while the longterm solutions to these difficult energy problems are worked out.
it would fall upon gasoline or upon crude which is refined into gasoline ultimately. and the way in which to answer senator ribicoffs question on how that could be ascertained is that it depends on the breakdown. in other words. the refiners report. how much they use for gasoline and other products. and that part used for gasoline would b subject to the import duty. in a sense. they would have the crude in bond. which is  an unusual practice in tariffs and trade. until they determined its end use. so that we could monitor that particular situation. . what would be excluded would be home heating oil. residual fuel oil. diesel fuel. and probably fuel for aviation as. generally speaking. it is  gasoline. it is kerosene or some other derivative. . i am told that there are two amendments. one by senator bellmon which would exclude gasoline used by the farm. or off the road as it is calledapparently. that is a word of art which obtains in many western statesand we have the percy amendment . as a matter of fact. senator percy wants to be sure that the higher figure. 10 cents. is imposed upon gasoline through piling all of the import duty. to have $3 per barrel on gasoline. whereas under my amendment it would only be roughly 4% cents. or it would be just its proportion of what is the total amount.
my understanding is that crude is crude and that how they refine it depends on its end use. so that we can end use it for gasoline or aher purpose. however. i understand also that residual fuel and home heating oil are generally imported in that form.
. this amendment is acceptable to me. on the following basis: i am thoroughly satisfied with that part of it which relates to offtheroad agriculural use. there is doubt about that being my intention. as for the problem of commercialcarrier trucking vehicles using gasoline in lieu of diesel fuel. i am somewhat concerned about the ability to enforce that definition. but when we adopt my amendment. the fundamental thrust of what it seeks to accomplish is its basic purpose. and we can work out with concurrence of the house the necessary words of art. i am willing to accept the entire amendment as part of my own. and i ask unanimous consent that i may be permitted to modify my amendment to include senator bellmons amendment thereto.
.- we must act promptly on bills such as this and the other energy legislation pending before the senate. i am gratified that the house ways and means committee has proposed an automobile fuel consumption tax. but i believe it should be considerably stronger. i hope the concepts i have today proposed will help lead to an effective and fair auto tax/credit bill. such legislation will begin to move america toward energy conservation and selfsufficiency that will enable us to meet the energy challenge and emerge better prepared for the future and equal to the present emergency. by mr. garn*
. i simply do  see how we can make any distinction in this field or the basis of the number of workers employed. they are human beings as much as the fellow working for general electric or general motors. i hope the senate will reject the amendment.
. the amendment is selfexplanatory. and i will read it: (e) the administrator shall. by rule promulgated longer than thirty days after enactment of this act. prohibit all uses of natural gas that he determines are solely for ornamental or decorative purposes. such gas prohibition shall be limited to uses which are outside of a residence or dwelling which has the installed capacity to use electricity. the prohibition shall take effect  later than sixty days after enactment of this title. there are 4 million natural gas lamps in the united states today. and they use fourtenths of 1 percent of the total annual natural gas supply. that is egh to supply the state of connecticut. we are doing little egh for conservation. this is one thing we can and should do. i understand that the amendment is acceptable to senator pearson and senator hollings.
. secretary schlesingers service in federal government in the bureau of the budget. the atomic energy commission. the central intelligence agency. and in the department of defense has earned him a able reputation for intelligence. integrity. and competence. while there have been many issues on which secretary schlesinger and i have fundamentally disagreed. i have great respect for dr. schlesingers integrity and sincerity and hence wish to mark his departure as secretary of defense. to all of the offices that secretary schlesinger has occupied in the federal government he has brought a high degree of intellectual competence and clarity of expression of his point of view that has won him a great deal of respect in the congress and the country at large. secretary schlesinger should be considered as an internationally kn secretary of defense and as an individual who served his country in a number of varied capacities with great ability. as secretary of defense. dr. schlesinger has had a major and lasting impact on american strategic thinking by initiating a major public debate on issues that will occupy the participants to the debate for some time to come. in addition he has provided intellectual leadership for the pentagon during a crucial period following the demoralization of the vietnam experience. a measure of the respect and esteem in which he has been held throughout the world is the expression of regret at his resignation by many of our closest allies in nato.
. i shall  detain the senate long. one thing that i think everybody should k is that fatalities in the coal mines have gone up.  down. we have tragic figures for 1973 and 1974. this was one of the things which attracted the attention of senator williams. myself and 38 other senators to the problem of mine safety. in order to complete the record i ask unanimous consent that there be included in the record the excerpt of the cosponsors of the bill. which appears at of march 22. 1975. plus the introductory statement of. senator williams which describes our purposes in introducing the bill.
. at the request of the chairman of the committee on government operations. mr. rimicoff. i ask unanimous consent that the committee be permitted to file a star print on its report 94874 accompanying the federal energy administration extension act. s. 2872. such a star print is necessary to make technical and conforming changes in the report.
. on behalf of senator ribicoff. i ask unanimous consent that the federal energy administration extension act. passed by the senate on june 16. 1976. be printed. as there are copies available for the conference markup.
i emphasize. if the senator will give me 30 seconds. that the senator is doing exactly the right thing. it needs to be considered in the context of our foreign policy. et cetera. while i am anxious to see a bill passed. i think the senator by giving both the committee on foreign relations and the joint committee on atomic energy an- opportunity to do this right is helping us all.
 carter. the two are broadly designed to achieve the same purposes and to do so in similar wpys. each plan would place the federal energy administration. the energy research and development administration. and the federal power commission entirely within the new department. both would establish mechanisms for the insulation of the adjudicatory regulatory functions to be handled by the department. and each would place the more general policymaking regulatory functions squarely under the authority of the secretary of energy. i fully agree with all of these steps. in my view. the most significant divergence between the two plans is the method of decisionmaking on federal leasing. the ford plan would have left a greater part of this leasing authority within. the interior department. where energy leasing decisions could be balanced with the other legitimate claims made for use of federal lands. the carter plan transfers certain of the interior secretarys leasing functions directly to the department of energy. but leaves other authority dealing with federal leasing in the interior department. it also creates a el mechanismcalled a leasing liaison committeeapparently designed to insure that leasing decisions are made by the -interior department without prior consultation of the secretary of energy. while i do  assess the feasibility or desirability of this arrangement at this time. i do anticipate that this area will be one that must be fully explored and understood in all its ramifications. it is one of the few major organizational arrangements that emerged from the carter study different from the ford pro.posal. and for that reason alone demands intensive scrutiny. and it elo raises serious questions about multiple uses for federal lands and protection of the environment. finally. the role and status of energy conservation in the department must be examined further. although both plans would place an assistant secretary in charge of conservation. we must take step.. in this reorganization to see that conrervation becomes a permanent and important part of our national effort. conservation activities must  be stripped from all of the other departments of government merely because it is included. as it should be. as a principal parpose of the department of energy. moreover. energy conservation must  be isolated within the new department. it must mesh with each of the other components of the department and  compete for attention and resources as the stepchild of a department committed to energy production. there must be organizational assurance that energy conservation will be one of the primary missions of this department. with these reservations in mind. i pledge my sunport for a promot and thorough consideration of this bill. and to work for senate passage. i believe that with flexibility and accommodation as the hallmarks of this bills journey through congress. on both sides. we can reach enactment in this years session.
as the author of the whole amendment. i wish to exclude factually and decisively. with all the strength i can command. anything other than what it says about energy. i realize that whatever i or others may feel about the planning debate. it must await aher day and should  in any way complicate this bill. therefore. when senator glenn suggested the addition of this particular paragraph. i accepted it because it seemed to me to be simply a structural question of whatever the president set up in his office. that that office should be capable of doing other things. if other things came along. as i said. it was a rather businesslike decision that if there should ever be such an office the beginnings of it would be present in the presidents structure. if he did set anything up in the presidency at all. may i say. also. that this amendment  only dealt with the subject that i am describing but it also displaced an amendment introduced by senator percy in which he wanted a policy planning mechanism for energy in the presidents office. per se. that was his proposal for an energy policy council. i could  see that because i thought we were already giving too much power to the executive. neither did senator glenn. so we came along with congress and the president. the total concept. as an alternative. when senator glenn offered this. it was also embraced by senator percy because it went to his concerns. he orginally had in mind and filed an amendment for a planning mechanism for energy only in the office of the president. very frankly. i will talk this over with senator glenn. our purpose is very clear. it may be achievable without this particular sentence being written in the bill. frankly. if it disquieted anyonethough. there is reason for iti will discuss the matter with senator glenn to see whether it is all that important or whether we should just let the record of the debate and our statement reflect our intent. and i am sure the managers rill agree that this should be considered as incorporated in the committee report to do what we had in mind rather than worry anyone that we are trying to drag something in by the heels.
. an excellent editorial on nuclear power appeared in sundays new york times. the remarks made are most perceptive. i am sure that my colleagues will be interested in reading this article. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
in the first place. i do  wish to be taken to agree with the senator in any way that in order to provide intelligent regulation for coal mines. we need two separate statutes. some standards may be applicable to coal mines which are  applicable to other types of mines. and certainly this expression as to the existing situation is very clear. but it seems to me that when we go on and deal with the establishment of other or new standards which are contained in section 301(b) (2). we clearly refer back to the pattern wilich exists as of this particular time. i am perfectly willing. myself. and i hope my colleagues might join me. to make clear in the legislative history that we intend that there is requirement either that the standards be uniform for coal and other mines. or that they should . it is a pragmatic process. depending on the nature of the standard. and we would expect that the separation should generally prevail. i point to our summary which is contained in the committee report on s. 717 at page 11. if the senator will look at that third paragraph under the heading "mine safety and health standards" he will find the sentence: separate standards are to prevail for the coal and coal segments of the industry. generally. it is my definite feeling that just as that may be applicable to coal alone. it should also be applicable to metallic and metallic mines. separate standards are to prevail generally. but where there can be a common standard. the responsibility will be to demonstrate that a common standard is feasible. and the test is feasibility. it is a pragmatic test. that is the way i understand this law. i do  believe any of us intend that we are suddenly going to lump all kinds of mines together and every regulation is an acrosstheboard basis for everybody. i believe that would be ridiculous on its face. we have such design. i believe the scheme of the legislation spells that out.
 it seems to me that the committee. and senator williams and i agree. by saying that the term used on page 144. which i herewith state again. to wit. the word "respectively" as applicable to metal and metallic mines and to coal mines as it relates to past mandatory standards. also carries over into future mandatory standards. that is the purpose and intent of this legislation. and that is the way this legislation is to be read. that is the meaning of the elimination of the word "coal." which is eliminated whenever it appears by section 102(a) (1) of this bill at page 78. whenever it appears in the objectives of the coal mine act. which are sections 2 (a) to (g) of that act. the insertion of the words which appear on page 82 on line 2. the words being "the objectives of this act." within the context beginning on page 81. line 17: whenever the secretary. upon the basis of information submitted to him in writing by an interested person. a representative of any organization of employers or employees. a nationally recognized standardsproducing organization. the secreary of health. education. and welfare. the national institute for occupational safety and health. or a state or political subdivision. or on the basis of information developed by the secretary or otherwise available to him. determines that a rule should be promulgated in order to serve the objectives of this act. therefore means that the legislative purpose is to treat the coal and the metallic and metallic mines respectively. wherever and whenever in the promulgation of a standard there is pragmatically a proper base for separation. it seems to me that that is so clear a definition of the purpose and the form of this legislation as to be unmistakable to any regulatory body. i gather my colleague concurs in that statement.
that is found. if the senator will look in the cordon print. pages 170. 171. and 172. and 173 of the committee report. he will find the provisions of the cbal act which are embodied completely in the bill which is before us with the elimination of the word "coal." if the senator will look at page 78 on lines 12 to 14. he will see section 102(a) (1) : section 2 of the federal coal line health and safety act of 1969 is amended by striking out "coal" wherever it appears. that is the essential structure of this bill. and this is why in the cordon print we have the existing coal act. as modified by s. 717.
exactly. so long as the requirements for the secretary are met. if the senator will go to section 506 of the coal act. which is found at page 173. he will see that we provide that the state may have more stringent standards.
 carter is asking of themdemands which the administration proposals do   seem to encompass. if the arab states come to believe that the arafat "negotiable demands" approach to relations with israel can succeed. the temptation could be strong for them to try the arafat approach to relations with the west in general respecting the opec oil cartel and thsouth issues in particular. the united states has a very real and direct interest in seeing that the arab states come to recognize that their relations with israel must be based on a genuine acceptance of israels national integrity and vital national interests. too. on the grounds of national interest and security alone our interest in a secure israel must be put among our priorities. several senators addressed the chair.
my answer is decidedly yes. in this case. because there are just as great equities for the miners of iron and the miners of talc and the knitters of the textiles as there are for coal miners. the coal miners happen to be first at the trough. that is ok. i am  arguing against that. and i am going to vote for this bill. but i do  believe we ought to shut off all these other equities by having terminal date at all when we can take aher look at this thing and see what is just for others as well.
. this department will be with us probably for much longer than the crisis of energy in which we are engaged . therefore. it should be judged as a neutral and flexible structure which could be adapted  only to the present crisis but to the energy needs of our country perhaps for generations to come. the department will start with a cxxiii- 1639part 21
s recommendations. this aspect will achieve our goals of increasing production without unduly burdening u.s. consumers. in the long run. which this policy is designed to serve. it will provide adequate incentives for production that will help us to cut down on our huge demand for imported oil. which to me should remain the central end overriding goal of our national energy rolicv.
. i am pleased to introduce today the regional energy development act of 1977. which is the culmination of almost 1 years work by the coalition of theastern govers and their senate counterparts. this bill that addresses the energy needs of the theast region in the context of the nations energy program. it is a bill that must be enacted if the theast region is to be able to attract and utilize the emous amounts of capital needed to supply our future energy needs. the theast region imports almost all its energy from other regions of the country and from abroad. this objective fact is fault of the theast region. with the possible exception of offshore finds or reserves. the theast region is  rich in energy resources. it has very limited amounts of oil and gas. and somewhat more of coal. if the region is to become more energy independent. and therefore help the nation toward energy selfsufficiency. it must develop the facilities to produce energy from regional sources. utilize energy more efficiently. and conserve energy wherever possible. it is the purpose of this act to ease the transition of the region from an oil and gas ecoy. to an ecoy fueled by coal. nuclear power. and renewable new energy sources. it is also its purpose to aid in financing the emous conservation and retrofit costs that are associated with energy transition. the transition from wood to coal and from coal to oil took about 60 years. we do  have those 60 years to move from gas and oil to alternative sources. we must move quickly. and this takes coordinated action. planning and large capital investment. the regional energy development corporation. established by this act. would facilitate all of those actions. the corporation would work in the interests of all of the member states. hopefully all of the states of the theast region. once a state joined. by enacting appropriate legislation and making its initial capital contribution of $1 per capita population. it would be eligible to participate in and benefit from all corporation activities. such activities could include: first. project financing for coal conversions. and development of new industry related to coal. second. financing of industrial cogeneration projects for the combined production of electricity and process steam. third. stimulation of waste energy recovery projects. fourth. infrastructure investments related to longterm coal supply. such as commercialization of new environmental techogy for coal. coal transportation. handling and storage investments as well as aggregation of coal demand to secure large longterm contracts that generate new mine openings. fifth. financing of residential insulation programs and development of an integrated retrofit industry. capable of supplying the regions retrofit materials and services. sixth. stimulating the construction of resource recovery facilities. and seventh. coordinating the support activities for a growing regional solar energy industry. in all of these areas. the corporation could provide financing as well as data. commercial marketing assistance and aid with regulatory requirements at the state and federal level. it is my belief that a regional energy development corporation could cut in half the time it will take to get many of these projects going. the corporation would function exclusively for the benefit of the member states. all significant projects would be subject to a veto of the gover of the affected state. moreover. the corporations projects are required to be allocated proportionately among all of the member states. although many projects could be multistate in nature. why must the federal government be involved in such a regional undertaking. for two reasons: first. the establishment of this corporation amounts to an interstate compact. which must be approved by congress. and second. the corporation needs the support and backing of the federal government. the sole federal commitment in this bill is a guarantee of the corporations obligations. there is federal equity money requested or envisioned. all equity will come from the member states. the maximum level of obligations is about $5.8 billion. barely a drop in the bucket of the nations capital needs in the energy area. sometimes estimated at near $1 trillion over the next decade. but this relatively modest effort could provide the spur needed to provide regional needs which are different from national priorities. while the bill as drafted is based on the theast regions needs. i believe it can serve as a model for similar efforts by other regions of the country which have common energy needs. we simply can expect that national administrations running national programs will meet all regional needs. the regional corporation idea is a cost effective mechanism for supplementing national efforts with regional planning. cooperation and development. it is a concept that returns power to the area closest to where it will be applied. so that it can serve needs that might otherwise go unfulfilled. it complements our national energy program both qualitatively and quantitatively. and has already been warmly received by the administration. i commend it to the senate and hope my colleagues will act promptly and favorably upon it.
. of oil versus gas. further embeds a regional ecoic advantage to those areas that use primarily oil. every state that uses residual fuel oil as an industrial fuel is similarly impacted. and that includes states from maine to florida. and from rhode island to california. the amendment before us effectively eliminates that discrimination and imposes equal tax rates on the users we wish to reach.
precisely because i thoroughly agree with the senator about his amendment. metha can be utilized as a fuel which burns completely and which does  require expensive antipollution equipment. as the senator points out in arguing for his amendment. it is a very valuable gasoline supplement.
i have one other question. my last question. of the senator: how will this exemption of 4 cents per gallon make alcohol fuel prices competitive with gasoline. this is an ecoic question which i believe we need to be answered.
. new york has the highest utility rates of any city in the country. although this is primarily due to the high price of residual fuel oil and other fuels. as well as the emous tax burdens that these utilities face. we have here an opportunity to provide somewhat less expensive power to these millions of consumers. the power authority of the state of new york. which was established by state law to provide power primarily to public facilities. is  precluded from selling excess power to consolidated edison. which serves the new york city metropolitan area. and to most of the other utilities in new york state. because of the restrictive two county interpretation of the industrial development bond interest exemption. the power authority has choice but to finance its facilities with exempt industrial development bonds. the costs are far less. but the regulation severely limits their ability to use the power they generate most efficiently and effectively. in fact. the regulation is causing. and will cause. excess generating capacity to be built that would  otherwise be necessary. this will result in the use of more precious fuels. whether they be oil and gas or other fuels. and it will exacerbate capital shortage problems in the electric utility industry and in the nation for useful reason. moreover. it will cause needless environmental damage from more plants that would otherwise be necessary to serve the legitimate needs of new yorkers. if the power authority had the flexibility it needs to sell its excess power to consumers within its legal jurisdiction. it could distribute its power where it is most needed and serve its own public consumers as well as the special needs of private consumers within the state. if this amendment is agreed to. pasny estimates that existing plants for the construction of two powerplants in the new york area could save utility consumers approximately $100 million in finance costs over the life of the plants. in addition. these new oil and gas fired plants would save precious energy resources and save many millions in fuel costs this amendment has been fashioned very narrowly to avoid any significant revenue loss. it will  permit the power authority of new york state to construct powerplants with exempt bonds that it would  otherwise be able to construct. with or without this amendment. pasny will build its needed new powerplants under the exempt provision. but this amendment would allow pasny to pass on its savings to the millions of utility consumers in the new york city area. it will give the power authority. and others similarly situated. the flexibility it needs in dealing with electric power needs and new generating capacity. it will need the arbitrary discrimination against the new york city area that results from the treasury regulation limiting local power distribution to a two county area. i urge my colleagues to accept this amendment.
i wanted to read to the senate the names of the cosponsors involved. because it represents. . there is always argument about the onehouse veto. but i would like to point out that every other major energy pricing action by the administration which relates to petroleum or petroleum products is subject to a congressional veto provision. this is contained in the energy policy and conservation act. the sponsors of this amendment. just to indicate the breadth of the support for it. are senators jackson. kennedy.
s proposal. i tried to vote that way on all these amendments. therefore. it is my conviction that a conference report should carry forward this philosophy: it should endeavor to do all we can in terms of conservation by direct incentives and requirements. it should endeavor to do all we can in terms of new production. because of the seriousness of inflation and the concomitant unemployment by its breeding. which energy price increases could further exacerbate. the conference report should minimize the effort to ration through price. on that basis. as one mans judgment. i believe it would be about what can be done and what would be in the best interest of the entire country.  merely one region or one sector. i finally emphasize that i reserve the right to send the conference report back once. twice. three. or four times until it is whipped into the best shape it can be in. so that. as one senator i find it provides the most effective energy program for our nation. i thank the chair.
. as is well kn. enactment of energy legislation has been one of the mostif  the mostimportant issues facing the congress this session. in this mornings washington post. our distinguished colleague from illis published an article which discusses the senates record in this regard. i found the article to be candid and provocative and it could serve as a basis for discussion of our future course of action with respect to energy legislation. therefore i ask unanimous consent that senator percys article be printed in the record.
. to which all of our diplomacy must be directed. it is critical that these funds. amounting roughly to about $175 billion. as i have already mentioned. be converted from shortterm assets into longterm instruments with protection by guarantees against serious dilution through inflation and the right to call for earlier repayment as an emergency may require. we should use our leverage respecting opec to induce these countries to move into these longerterm instruments. these oil countries have a growing stake in the ecoies of the west. they hold our currenciesi repeat. largely in shortterm paperand have investments within our borders. we k that they are worried about the political and ecoic conditions in the west. if the opec countries are as worried as they profess to be. they must assume the responsibility for some of the problems and provide the needed longterm capital that will remove a major disequilibrium in the international ecoic system. the potential for disruption of our money markets which lies in the hands of even the most benign of opec money managers must be removed. i am convinced that. with the proper mixture of partnership and leverageincluding political and securityand inducements. the opec countries would provide the required capital pool. an effective blueprint on how to use this leverage on the part of the united states has recently been given the american people by the general accounting officethe congress own agentin a report entitled "more attention should be paid to making the u.s. less vulnerable to foreign oil price and supply decisions" and issued by the comptroller general elmer staats. it provides the specific steps that must be taken by the chief executive and by the departments of energy and state to provide the oil companies. and the major ones are u.s. based. with the support that is required to exert this leverage on the opec countries. from the footdragging reaction to the report that we have received from the departments. whose reactions are published in the same document. we begin to understand clearly why we are closer to any solution almost 5 years after the opec crisis began in 1973. i hasten to add that with respect to this large pool of capital. the governments of the industrialized countries. including our own. must. of course. be prepared to meet opecs legitimate concerns for the preservation of the value of their funds. in return for a commitment of say $150 to $250 billion. representing conservatively onehalf of the opec countries surpluses over the next 10 years. the developed countries should agree to guarantee opec a rate of interest that will take into account reasonable expectations of inflation. furthermore. a formula must be devised and it can very readily -be done to permit the opec countries to withdraw in an orderly manner such funds as needed. should their development needs outstrip their oil and other receipts. although the present recycling process appears to meet the concerns of opecs financial managers. we must show them why their longterm interests are  served by the present system. it is essential that the surplus opec countries be tied more intimately into the international ecoy because. without adequate funds. longterm projects aimed at generating the required investment levels in the oilproducing world and opening up broader markets will be doomed to failure. the problem facing the developed countries is  one resulting from the shortage of money available from investors. rather. the capital formation problem results from a lack of business confidence and from a need to develop a coordinated plan to encourage orderly structural adjustments. proncements at ecoic summits issued in joint communiques by heads of state that their countries will increase mutual consultations are  egh. what is required is the immediate opening of discussions between willing industrial countries at the highest levels of government to developin treaty form. if necessarya commitment to coordinate closely their industrial policies and macroecoic policies. only through the highest political decisions can the costs and benefits of the required painful shifts in the ecoies of the developed countries be shared and "beggar my neighbor" policies be avoided. the understandings must embody enforceable commitments by industrialized countries about growth targets. disparities in growth rates distort trade. as we are witnessing today. and generate the demands for protectionism as much as barriers at the border. it is in the area of industrial policies that the national leaders must foresake their parochial views and achieve a common solution. the first step in this process must be a critical analysis of the relative structures of their ecoies in order to identify the ecoic sectors in which the individual countries will continue to have a comparative advantageover other developed countries and most importantly with respect to the developing countries. the most significant aspect of such a program will have to deal with the plight of the workers who may lose jobs because of the structural shifts. structural adjustments in response to shifts in comparative trade advantage will  be made smoothly so long as there is a lack of new employment opportunity to match those which are lost to imports. in developing a common approach to structural adjustment in the west. we must insure that the individual workers are made whole and assisted through effective adjustment programs that will retrain them for work in growing sections of the ecoies. maintain them until they work. and relocate them where there are jobs. these programs must be inative. they will be costly in the short run and the developed countries must be prepared to bear the costs. to help alleviate the unemployment problems. special attention and the proper incentives should be given to distortive laborintensive investments or particularly to industries which create new jobs for youth. furthermore. investments might be targeted to geographic areas of high unemployment. (at this point there was a colloquy participated in by other senators which by unanimous consent is printed at the conclusion of mr. javits remarks.)
. the question of oil imports and what to do about them has become increasingly important over the last several years. to the point where the question must  rank high on everyones list of the major issues confronting the united states. the security of foreign supplies. as well as their high cost and attendant balanceofpayments problems has resulted in a heated debate on how to approach the oil import problem. in the february 28. 1978. issue of the new republic. which was devoted almost entirely to the subject of energy. two articles appeared which discussed the issue of oil imports in some detail. the articles represent two differing points of view. one focusing on how to bring down the cost of oil imports. and the other on how best to cope with current high prices. i found these articles to require necessary consideration together as well as being interesting and provocative. and therefore ask unanimous consent that they be reprinted in the record so that they may serve as a basis for debate on this important auestion.
senator curtis. the lighting system you describe was demonstrated by its developer. don widmayer. in a senate office room thursday. february 23 before legislative assistants to senators serving on the energy and finance committees. a special watt measuring meter showed that nearly 50 percent less energy was consumed by the fluorescent unit as sunlight entered the room. when the blinds were then shut. the light automatically increased in intensity to maintain a constant level of light in the room. mr. widmayers devic& is small and simple to install. but the concept is very inative. presently. erda is experimenting with highfrequency ballasts which can conserve 10 percent of energy utilized by lighting. however. there is a problem with highfrequency ballasts because of the interference they cause in office telephone connections. certainly. the controlled environment systems. inc. device deserves prompt attention by erda due to the fact it conserves far more energy without disturbing telephone reception. i concur with senator curtis. and urge gsa and doe to take a hard look at this new system by trying it on a temporary basis in a government building.*
. the increasing amount of foreign petroleum imports are of great concern to me. i refer to an article in thursdays new york times. march 16. 1978. william g. miller. recently appointed chairman of the federal reserve board. expressed serious concern about the ecoic impact of our energy situation. he warned that the united states must cut down on its use of imported oil and must take some positive and forceful steps to develop new energy sources in order to restore confidence in the dollar. he further stated that whatever we do. we must act quickly. time is running out. one of the most urgent energy problems this country must solve is to find a liquid energy replacement for gasoline used by our automobiles and industrial turbines. one such liquid fuel which can be integrated into our present energy system is alcohol. alcohol can be synthesized with current techogy from a variety of sources that are both renewable and plentiful. the urban waste generated by our cities which has become increasingly difficult to dispose of properly can be made into metha. timber. aher renewable resource. as well as coal. one of our most abundant domestic resources. can also be made into metha. in addition. agricultural wastes. certain energy crops. sugar cane. contaminated foods. and even algae. all can be used to produce etha. i believe that increased use of alcohol fuels can substantially reduce our need for imported petroleum. in addition. alcohol fuels can help solve our sewage disposal problems. provide an alternative income source for our farmers. and enable us to utilize our high sulfur coals. i have made predictions similar to william millers about the future state of the world ecoy. as well as our own financial security. if we do  quickly and assertively develop domestic techogies to supplement our energy imports. alcohol fuels serve this purpose. we must have a liquid fuel that can be gradually integrated into our own energy system before the year 2000. that is at the same time versatile egh in its possible end uses to meet the many needs of our industrial society. again. alcohol fuel fits this description. alcohol. in addition to its use as a gasoline extender. can be successfully employed as a industrial turbine fuel. a peak turbine fuel for utilities. and as an industrial chemical. indeed. as an industrial chemical. alcohol could be utilized to wean energy dependent industries off of petroleum based chemicals since many of our plastics could be made from alcohol derivatives rather than from petroleum. most importantly. it is time for some positive action in the energy arena. although alcohol fuels will  solve the energy crisis they can make a significant contribution by decreasing our need for petroleum imports. if we are to show our allies that the united states has the resources to meet the challenge of a more energy independent america. we must begin to utilize some techogies we have overlooked in the past. in response to a joint letter signed by 28 senators to secretary schlesinger. the department of energy task force on alcohol fuels has just submitted its report to congress. in order to encourage discussion about alcohol fuel i would like to place the march 17. 1978. report entitled "united states department of energy position paper on alcohol fuels" in the record.
madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on energy and natural resources be authorized to meet during the session of the senate today. beginning at 2:30 p.m.. to consider the department of energy authorization bill.
. i would like to share with my colleagues an article written by the distinguished senator from illis. senator percy is a leading proponent of solar and other renewable energy resource techogy. his dedication and hard work on the entire energy issue are well kn. and make his commitment to solar energy all the more persuasive. senator percy sponsored the senate resolution proclaiming may 3 sun day. as well as several other recent solar bills. among his contributions to sun day was an article published on may 3 in the chicago tribune. the article is an excellent summary of some of the best reasons for using solar energy. i ask that it be printed in the record.
. i am firmly committed to the development of renewable resources as a major source of energy. alcohol derived from urban waste. agricultural residues. timber. coal. and even algae presents immediate opportunities for liquid fuel. assistant secretary alvin l. alm spoke before the national gasohol commission conference in washington. d.c. this week. his speech signifies a major turning point for the department of enargy on the alcohol fuel issue. mr. alm reasserts does commitment to resolve ecoic. supply and other issues that affect the potential of alcohol fuels. i would like to place his speech in its entirety in the record. the speech follows:
. in a penetrating article that appeared in the new york times of july 2. 1978. and entitled "oil and the price/productivity gap." robert a. bennett has focused on the real impact on the world ecoy rather than the financial impact on the petrodollar recycling system of the 197374 opec oil price increase. as many of my colleagues are aware. i have expressed concerns similar to those expressed by mr. bennett on numerous occasions on the floor of the senate. we are only today beginning to feel the impact on the international ecoy of the decision by the opec countries to raise the price of oil to unecoic levels. the "skimming" off the top of the industrial system which it represents. because we in the west have sought to deal with the opec price increase by choosing to transfer either real resources or financial resources (which give a later call on real resources) to the opec countries in exchange for the same amount of oil at new prices. we have been forced to make the drastic choice between inflationary and deflationary policies to pay for the oil. mr. bennett calls on the participants at this weeks bonn summit to deal with this problem in a way which would return the world to financial stability by having market criteria determine the price of oil. in return mr. bennett calls for the establishment of adequate facilities to insure the opec countries with largescale development plans that they will have the longterm. development funds as they need them. also. i do  believe that the total plan should be limited to opec countries but should also include other less developed countries that are willing to work with us in meeting their development needs and in accelerating their development. i have introduced senate resolution 441. together with senators chafee.
the apparent demise of the energy tax bill has created severe hardships for homeowners and industry who made energyconserving improvements. or invested in solar techogy under the impression that they would qualify for major federal tax incentives included in the national energy plan. proposed on april 20. 1977. . because of the inaction on the energy tax bill. consumers have held back their purchases of solar equipment. this has devastated the new solar industry. for example. the solar energy industry association reports that during the first 6 months of 1977. the solar fiatplate industry sold 14.000 units. in contrast. in the 14 months since the presidents energy plan was introduced. only 22.000 units have been sold. thus. the solar industry fared better before the administration set up its solar commercialization strategy which placed the industry in an untenable situation. over 80 percent of the businesses that manufacture. sell. install. or maintain solar energy and other renewable energy systems are categorized as small businesses. if these businesses can be assured of continued growth. they will be unable to bring down the unit costs of these new techogies and maintain their competitiveness with the larger and more diversified businesses. the passage of these tax credits for the purchase of solar and other alternative energy equipment. and for insulation and other energy conservation materials. is of major importance to our nation. this amendment provides the necessary incentive in the marketplace to spur on conservation and help develop alternative energy sources. there is better way to accomplish this goal than to provide incentives to the american homeowner. so that we may achieve broadscale implementation of renewable resource techogies. i support this amendment and hope the senate will adopt it. time is running out for action. and further delay injures consumer industry. and our nations energy supply. . i support the hartmcintyrepercy amendment. and i hope the senate will approve it.
