. titled "on the threshold of independence." in which it called discrimination "the number one problem faced by individuals with disabilities." in an indepth 1983 report on discrimination against people with disabilities. aher independent federal agency. the u.s. commission on civil rights concluded that. "despite some improvements * * * it persists in such critical areas as education. employment. institutionalization. medical treatment. involuntary sterilization. architectural barriers. and transportation. the commission further observed that. "discriminatory treatment of handicapped persons can occur in almost every aspect of their lives." in a nationwide poll of americans with disabilities conducted in 1986 by louis harris & associates. respondents identified a variety of types of discriminationincluding workplace discrimination. denials of educational opportunities. lack of access to public buildings and bathrooms. the absence of accessible transportation and other forms of social ostracism. nearly 15 years ago. the congress took an important step to begin to address discrimination against people with disabilities by enacting title v of the rehabilitation act of 1973. pursuant to sections 503 and 504 of that act. discrimination on the basis of handicap was made unlawful for federal agencies. recipients of federal financial aid and federal contractors. there is doubt that these statutes. particularly section 504. have had a profoundly positive effect in the programs and activities they cover. important regulations have been promulgated and numerous lawsuits have been filed. resulting in court decisionsa few even reaching the u.s. supreme courtthat have interpreted and applied the prohibition of discrimination on the basis of handicap. a few weeks ago. we passed the civil rights restoration act to make sure that section 504. along with civil rights laws protecting racial miities. women. and elderly people. would  be restricted by the narrowed interpretation of their scope engendered by the supreme courts decision in grove city college versus bell. there should be doubt that persons with disabilities and we in congress continue to believe in the paramount importance of sections 503 and 504. and will stresly resist any attempts to undercut them. but. at the same tine. we must recognize that the existing statutes do  go far egh toward establishing a broad legal condemnation of the discrimination confronting people with disabilities. some have heralded section 504 as "the civil rights law" for people with disabilities. the fact is. however. that section 504 addresses only a few of the arenas in which discrimination occurs. section 504 is indeed modeled on the language of title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. but that act and other statutes protecting people from discrimination on the basis of race. color. sex. religion or national origin. contain many. many other provisions  found in statutes protecting people with disabilities. for example. the 1964 act prohibits discrimination by employers engaged in interstate commerce. in places of public accommodation. by states and political subdivision of stateswhile people with disabilities currently have such protection. other statutes. constitutional provisions. regulatory interpretations. and longstanding judicial precedents prohibit discrimination on grounds of race. color. sex. religion. or national origin in housing. travel. and the communications industry. people with disabilities are  similarly protected. on february 1. 1960. four black students entered a woolworths store in greensboro. nc. proceeded to the lunch counter. seated themselves. and ordered a cup of coffee. by this courageous act. these young men initiated what would become a series of sitins and other forms of civil disobedience challenging the racial segregation of lunch counters. restaurants. hotels. motels. parks. and other types of public accommodations. these efforts would eventually lead to the enactment of title ii of the civil rights act of 1964. which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. color. religion. or national origin in places of public accommodation. because of the provisions of title ii of the 1964 act. discrimination on the grounds of persons race. color. religion or national origin by an inn. hotel. motel or other lodging establishment. by any restaurant. cafeteria. lunchroom. lunch counter. soda fountain or other dining establishment. by any gas station. or by any motion picture house. theater. concert hall. sports arena. stadium. or other place of exhibition or entertainment. is unlawful. yet. today. it is  unlawful for these same establishments to exclude. mistreat. or otherwise discriminate against people because of their disabilities. people with cerebral palsy are turned away from restaurants because proprietors say their appearance will upset other patrons. people who use wheelchairs arc blocked by curbs. steps. and narrow doorways from getting into many arenas. stadiums. theaters. and other public buildings. many such facilities have done planning for the use of their services by people with hearing or visual impairments. it has been over 30 years since some zoos and parks were closed to keep blacks from visiting them during at the peak of civil rights demonstrations and boycotts. yet it was only last. month that the washington post reported the story of a new jersey zoo keeper who refused to admit children with downs syndrome because he feared they would upset the chimpanzees. aher major event of the civil rights movement in america occurred on december 1. 1955. when rosa parks refused to get up and move to the back of a bus. and was promptly arrested. this event triggered bus boycotts. demonstrations. and eventually resulted in her exoneration by the supreme court. which declared the segregationist requirements unconstitutional. subsequently. the heroric "freedom riders" risked their lives to assert their rights. established in supreme court decisions and rulings of the interstate commerce commission. to be allowed to travel from state to state. free from discrimination. today. those rights are wellestablished and generally respected. yet people with disabilities still have to chain themselves to buses and to block their movement in order to focus the attention of the transit industry and the general public on the fact that most buses are inaccessible to them. "we arent forced to the back of the bus." they say. "we cant get on the bus at all." a 1982 survey by the general accounting office found that onethird of transit systems offering bus service did  have a single bus with a lift. the same study indicated that nearly threefourths of the urban rail stations surveyed were almost totally inaccessible. employment discrimination was a major target of the 1964 civil rights act. title vii of that law prohibits discrimination on the basis of race. color. religion. sex or national origin. by employment agencies. labor organizations. and job training programs. and by any employer engaged in an industry affecting commerce who has 15 or more employees. people with disabilities do  have any similar protection. even though they encounter job discrimination all the time. the louis harris survey found that onefourth of persons with disabilities interviewed reported that they had experienced employment discrimination because of their disabilities. nearly half of those individuals who did  have jobs or were employed less than full time listed as an important reason why they were  working the fact that employers would  recognize that they were capable of doing a fulltime job. such widespread discrimination against persons with disabilities in the workplace is a major reason for the appalling rate of joblessness among them. according to the harris survey. twothirds of all americans with disabilities of working age do  have jobs. this is the highest rate of joblessness among any sizable miity in the country. yet. the harris poll found. most of them want to work. a major target of civil rights advocates in the fifties and sixties was officially sanctioned discriminationdiscrimination engaged in or even required by state and local governments. through court battles and legislation. such discrimination on the basis of race. color. sex. religion or national origin has been made illegal. title ii of the 1964 civil rights act contains a specific provision that prohibits such discrimination pursuant to any law. statute. regulation. ordinance. rule or order of a state or local government. people with disabilities do  have such protection. and can lawfully be subjected to discrimination by states and their political subdivisions. title viii of the civil rights act of 1968 prohibits discrimination in housing on the basis of race. color. religion. sex and national origin. people with disabilities are  protected. as a result. they are frequently turned down for apartments or houses because a landlord or owner objects to their disability. blind people are denied housing and told that they would be a fire hazard. mentally retarded people are rejected as unfit tenants. people who use wheelchairs often find that they are unable to locate any accessible housing whatsoever. and deaf persons seeking housing find that landlords and real estate agents are often unwilling to make any effort to communicate with them. aher area in which people with disabilities have less legal protection is that of broadcasting and communications. provisions of the communications act that set a "public interest" standard have been interpreted to include a discrimination requirement. however. in the 1983 case of community television of southern california v. gottfried (103 s.ct. 885). the supreme court refused to apply this discrimination requirement to people with disabilities. holding that a public television station was  required to provide captioned programming. once again. the legal prohibitions of discrimination that are available to other groups have  been accorded to those with disabilities. the bill i am introducing today aims to correct such discrepancies. this is clearly stated in the "purpose" section of the bill: "to provide a prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities parallel in scope of coverage with that afforded to persons on the basis of race. sex. national origin. and religion." at the same time. the bill intends to more clearly delineate what constitutes discrimination on the basis of handicapin the words of the act. "to provide clear. strong. consistent. and enforceable standards addressing discrimination against persons with disabilities." for this reason. a substantial portion of the bill is devoted to spelling out what forms of discrimination are prohibited. and giving guidance to those covered by the act. regulatory agencies. and the courts as how the general concept of discrimination on the basis of handicap is to be applied. the bill has 10 sections. the first identifies the short title of the proposed act-"the americans with disabilities act of 1988." the second section presents the findings and purpose of the bill. the third section provides definitions of some of the key terms the bill uses.most are based upon the language of existing definitions in the regulations promulgated under section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. since they were first promulgated in 1977. federal agencies and the courts have had considerable experience in interpreting and applying them. we expect that the substantial body of law and interpretation developed under section 504 will be applied to clarify those terms and requirements that are reiterated in this bill. except. of course. where provisions of this bill indicate otherwise. the definition of "physical or mental impairment" in this bill. for example. is a verbatim repetition of the definition of the same phrase in section 504 regulations. the definition of the important concept of "reasonable accommodation" is based upon an analysis of that concept in "accommodating the spectrum of individual abilities." a report issued in 1983 by the u.s. commission on civil rights. the focus of this definition is upon making individualized modifications to enable the participation of an individual with a disability. section 4 of the bill tells what persons and agencies are covered by. that is. who is prohibited from discriminating. paralleling rights guaranteed to others. it applies to employers. employment agencies. labor organizations. and job training programs subject to title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 and to housing covered by title viii of the act. to public accommodations subject to title ii. to transportation services. to states and agencies and political subdivisions of the states. and to broadcasts. conimunications and telecommunications services. section 4 also contains provisions making explicit that the act shall  undercut the requirements of title v of the rehabilitation at (which includes section 504) and regulations issued thereunder.  shall undercut the requirements of any other federal law or a state or local law that provides greater protection against discrimination. section 5 delineates the "forms of discrimination" that are made unlawful. paragraph 5(a)(1) incorporates those forms of discrimination listed in existing section 504 regulations. consistent with the supreme courts decision in alexander versus choate. these provisions encompass both intentional and unintentional acts of discrimination. paragraphs 5(a) (2). (3). and (4) delineate clear requirements for the removal of three forms of discrimination. respectively. they deal with the removal of architectural. transportation. and communication barriers. the rendering of reasonable accommodations to permit the participation of an individual with a disability. and the elimination of standards and criteria that screen out people with disabilities. unless they are necessary and can be shown to relate to the ability to perform or participate. part (b) of section 5 makes clear that certain conduct does  constitute discrimination on the basis of handicap. first. whether or  a person lhas a physical or mental impairment. it is  discrimination prohibited by this bill to exclude or otherwise treat the person differently for reasons wholly unrelated to an impairment. perceived impairment. or record of impairment. thus. it would be perinissible to refuse to hire a person who uses a wheelchair from a job as a proofreader because the person has poor spelling skills. second. it may be permissible to deny an opportunity or treat a person unequally through the application of criteria or standards that are necessary and substantially related to the ability to perform or participate in essential components of a job or activity. for erample. it may be perfectly proper to exclude people with insufficient vision from such jobs as bus driver or air traffic controller. section 6 of the bill addresses discrimination in housing. this section incorporates identical provisions to those currently tinder consideration as additions to the federal fair housing act. a major focus of these provisions is upon certain modest features of uniform accessibility in future housing construction. as congress continues to consider proposed amendments to add disability to the coverage of that act. we hope to examine any refinements of such language for incorporation into this bill. if fair housing act amendments that add disability and accomplish the alms of this section are enacted. it would be redundant and could be removed. section 7 establishes limitations on the duties to remove barriers and to make reasonable accommodations. first. a particular barrier does  have to be removed or a particular accommodation made if to do so would either fundamentally alter the nature of the business or program. or would threaten its existence. however. there would still he an obligation to make other accommodations or take other actions to permit participation. the second thing that section 7 does is to clarify that. barrier removal involving substantial modifications to existing buildings and facilities does  have to be done overnight. gener. ally. such modifications are to be performed within a reasonable period of time  to exceed 2 years from the bills effective date. but regulations promulgated tinder the act can permit up to 5 years for particular types of buildings and facilities where compli. ance may take more time. section 7 also addresses the removal of barriers entailing substantial modifications to the platforms and stations of mass transportation facilities. for completion of this type of modification. regulations promulgated under the act may allow up to 10 years. section 8 deals with the promulgation of regulations. in three areasemployment. transportation. and television broadcastingit provides more detail as to what such regulations are to include. with regard to employment. it makes clear that regulations should  be limited to hiring procedures but should encompass the full spectrum of terms. conditions. and privileges of employment. the employment provisions also reiterate standards regarding preemployment inquiries and medical examinations found in current section 504 regulations. where transportation is concerned. regulations are to include requirements regarding the future purchase and other acqusition of accessible vehicles. within 7 years after the effective date of this act. at least 50 percent of the peak fleet of vehicles and rolling stock shall be accessible. for television broadcasting. the regulations shall establish "requirements for progressively increasing proportion of programs. advertisements. and anncements that are captioned." this permits certain flexibility whereby the federal communications commission in negotiation with the broadcast industry and the disability community can determine realistic criteria for continuously increasing the proportion of captioned telecasts. section 9 establishes the procedural and enforcement mechanisms for addressing alleged violations of the act. the enforcement procedures are similar to those available under the 1964 civil rights act and include administrative remedies. a private right of action in federal court. monetary damages. injunctive relief. attorneys fees. and cutoffs of federal funds. section 1v of the bill provides that the act shall become effective upon the date of its enactment. the foregoing is a brief sketch of the bill. i believe its passage will constitute a clear and broad statement by our society that discrimination on the basis of. handicap is just as intolerable as other types of discrimination that our civil rights laws forbid. the bill certainly can be considered overreachingfor it covers only the same programs and businesses which are already prohibited front other types of discrimination. some may fear that the bill will create requirements that are unrealistically expensive. there are several answers to questions about costs. first. it must be asked: how much is too much to pay for equality. can we establish an acceptable price tag for civil rights. second. experience suggests that the costs of modifications are usually much less than might be feared by those unfamiliar with the issues. wider doorways and ramps are  particularly expensive. and even modifications to bathrooms and lifts can be secured at relatively modest prices. and many communication devices are quite reasonable in cost. a telecommunications device for the deaf [tdd]. which enables deaf people to use the telephone. can be purchased for about $150. as we consider costs. it is important to bear in mind that the federal tax code permits businesses to take an annual deduction of up to $35.000 for expenditures entailed in removing barriers to people with disabilities. a harris poll of employers found that three out of four managers interviewed believed the average costs of hiring a person with a disability to be about the same as that of employing a disabled person. a 1982 study by the department of labor concluded that accommodating for disabilities is "big deal." this confirms the experiences of major u.s. corporations. such as du pont. which report that workplace accommodations frequently cost little or hing. likewise. the expense associated with accessibility features for new housing are relatively small. estimates are that. at most. such requirements would entail less than 1 percent of construction costs. officers of the national association of home builders have declared that they can build in such features at very little cost. and such costs are expected to decline even further once they become uniform within the housing industry. the requirements regarding accessibility of new vehicles and rolling stock of transportation agencies are  extravagant. often the issue resolves itself into a question of purchasing slightly fewer accessible vehicles versus a slightly greater number of inaccessible ones. taking buses as an example. although costs can vary. a lift on a new bus currently costs about 6 to 9 percent of the total price tag. thus. for the same outlay. a company can either purchase ten accessible buses or 11 buses without lifts. perhaps the most difficult and costly modifications contemplated are those associated with existing stations and platforms of mass transit systems. but i would reiterate that the bill does allow these changes. and consequently their costs. to be spread over a period of up to 10 years. the act does  naively demand full access immediately. but gives transit systems the opportunity to plan for and spread out the refurbishment and capital expenditures necessary to achieve accessibility. and again. the limitations section of the bill prevents the requirement of modifications on a timetable that would threaten the existence of any transportation operator. in short. the costs associated with this bill are a small price to pay for opening up our society to persons with disabilities. indeed. the costs to this nation of discrimination against persons with disabilities are staggering. over $60 billion of our annual federal budget are spent on disabilityrelated programs. disability is second only to defense as the largest category of federal budget expenditures. and 95 percent of what we spend on disability goes to maintaining people in dependent situations. all taxpayers are underwriting the inactivity and waste of resources of people with disabilities who are  permitted the opportunity to be employed and selfsufficient. the costs to our society of discriminationin ecoic as well as humanitarian termsare much greater than the costs of eliminating such discrimination. i also want to clarify my understanding of the concept of accessilyility as it is required under this bill. so that one exaggerates or misinterprets its meaning. a basic premise of tile bill is that whenever anyone constructs. reates. rents. purchases. or otherwise acquires a building or facility without providing for the use of it by persons with disabilities. then that person or agency is committing an act that denies equal opportunities to these individuals. recognizing. however. that such discrimination has permeated our society throughout its history. and is built into much of our environment. this act does  seek to engender total accessibility immediately and everywhere. it does place some definite requirements for accessibility upon some facilities and buildings subject to the act. it also allows reasonable periods of time for this accessibility to be achieved. the following are the requirements the bill intends to establish.
