that is  the same thing. in the eyes of the whole banking and business community of the world. which does  regard the implicit promisebecause we are withholdingas being the extension of the surtax. the fact that my statement is a valid assumption is shown by the fact that if we do have a christmas tree bill on the surtax. what happened to the previous one will happen to this one. it will fall somewhere between the two houses or it will go back to the committee of the senate. and we will fail in that effort. the only thing of interest to those who make the interest rates and those who charge the prices and those who determine the ecoy in our country and the world will be the extension of the surtax. showing that we mean business. that we k we can. in a war. have both guns and butter. which we have done for too long. and which has brought us to the present condition. the surtax is to be deplored. but it is paying for past mistakes. the sooner we pay for those mistakes. the sooner we go forward again in a rise of 4 to 6 percent in production. which for this country is absolutely indispensable if it is to continue in its position of world leadership and strength. 
. in the present debate on trade policy. the impression is often left that the forest of our widespread commercial interests in europe and japan is often overlooked as we narrowly focus on the trees of individual commodity problems. i suggest that such a narrow focus is as detrimental to our overall foreign ecoic policies as our excessive focus on vietnam is detrimental to our broader interests in the world. i invite the attention of senators to a recent speech by theodore gates. the assistant special representative for trade negotiations. which focuses on our evolving commercial relationship with western europe. we would do well to heed mr. gates words thateurope is at a major turning point. it is once again making rapid. highly significant steps forward in its internal development and in overcoming obstacles to full integration. in its current enlargement negotiations. it may soon be creating further. vast changes in our multilateral trading world. while these are  the only trade policy issues ahead of us. they are certainly among the most important. i would suggest that the actions the administration and the congress take in the foreign ecoic policy area in the months ahead will help determine the future shape of our relations with western europe in the decade of the 1970s. in turn. the decisions of western europe as they approach a historic expansion of the common market particularly as they relate to the access of our exports and capital to european markets will help influence the developing mood of the u.s. administration and congress. i ask unanimous consent that mr. gates remarks be printed in the record.
