. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on wednesday. april 25. 2001. immediately following the ination hearing. on status of labor issues in airline industry.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on wednesday. april 25. 2001. immediately following the ination hearing. on status of labor issues in airline industry.
 of boott mills. "they want it for an exhibit." the museum may  have long to wait. for there remains only one major textile millwannalancit textile co.-in this old industrial city some 25 miles thwest of boston. textiles are going in lowell. but the city is well on its way along a slow and. painful road towards ecoic diversification. lowell reached its textile peak in 1924. since then it has been downhill in this city of scores of red brick mills and tenement houses. i in 1935. for example. at the bottom of the great depression. 45 percent of the population was on relief. when. the lowell textile industry gradually moved to the south. it left a legacy here of high level of unemployment despite national and state prosperity. and a need for more industry. lowells population is 86.000. down some 26.000 from the 1912 high. although the surrounding - towns. billerica. tewksbury. chelmsford and dracut. have shown substantial population growths. john griffin. supervising office manager of the state division of employment security in lowell. said the unemployment rate for the lowell area was 7.4 percent of the total work force for january. the statewide average for the same period was 4.2. in lowell itself. where the work force is estimated at 45.000. the unemployment rate for january is estimated at slightly higher. but figures are  kept for the city alone. lowells unemployment figure has improved slightly over the last five years. but it remains one of the highest in the nation. griffin said the situation here is  as bleak as it appears on paper. "there is a great deal of work done of a contract basis here." he said. "it causes peaks and slow seasons. when things are slow. the number of claims jump substantially." he added. "the ecoic picture in lowell is gradually improving." there are other reasons for the high unemployment rate. a visitor here is told over and over by industry officials. many men. particularly those with larger families. receive as much for unemployment payments as they would be paid for a full work week. "if anyone really wants to work in lowell." one mill executive said. "there is a job here for him." a full page of "help wanted" advertisements in the lowell sun supports this view. in the old. gothic style city hall. lowells young and energetic mayor. edward early jr.. said. "we havent been getting the new industries we need. it is as simple as that." but most city officials. including city manager charles a. gallagher and acting city planner jack tavares. agreed that progress has been made. they point to "incubator" industries. some employing as few as 10 or 15 persons. they include electronic. paper and plastic firms. their total number grows each year. textile. thanks to wannalancit mills. and allied industries. remains as the citys biggest industry. but it is a. matter of time before paper products or printing takes over that top spot. but there are bright spots in the lowell picture. for example. the boott mills complex. all 17 buildings. is composed of some 40 firm. with only onea dye companystill engaged in the textile industry. there are 2600 persons employed in the complex. the same number working there in the mid 1920s when textile was lowells bread and butter. "lowell is fairly well off today." said dickson. head of boott mills. "diversification has come gradually. but it definitely is here." newly completed route 495a superhighway running east and west of lowellis expected to play a key role in the citys comeback. but. acoordingto mayor early. a major need is a connector highway linking the superhighway with downtown lowell. that project is still in the "planning stage." the citys urban redevelopment program has completed the church st. project and the 93acre thern canal project is underway. in recent years. several schools. shopping centers and an industrial park have been built. lowell techogical institute. which is internatioially kn. has grown substantially. new dormitories to house 660 more students are under construction. after a 50year lag. new buildings have been constructed in the downtown lowell area. ecoic progress here has  been as rapid as has been hoped. but the city that began as .a company town is looking again to the future. they have a favorite word here--diversification. you hear it over and over. for lowell is determined to never again put all its ecoic eggs in one basket. especially a cloth (textile) basket.
 is able to label a strike as an emergency. he is left with recourse after a 60- or 80day period has expired other than to permit a strike or to submit the dispute to congress for special legislation. our highly interdependent ecoy simply can withstand protracted interruptions in the flow of goods for more than a few days. during the first two weeks of the united transportation union strike last summer. for example. it was estimated that the loss of forest product shipments in the western states alone amounted to $28 million. and had it lasted aher 2 weeks. chrysler corp. would have been forced tc shut down 35 plants and layoff approximately 110.000 workers. as a result of the west coast dock strike begun last july. unemployment in hawaii reached a 17year high. totaling at least 21.450 unemployed. while produce prices rose 10.8 percent. perhaps most alarming were projections made after the 2day rail strike in may 1971. that national unemployment after a 2week strike would reach 8.4 percent. and 22.1 percent after 8 weeks. . the need for legislation which will protect the public interest from undue disruption is imperative. especially in light of existing labor problems in the transportation industry. the sheet metal workers international association and the railroads are currently in the midst of an unresolved dispute that could become aher major railroad strike as early as march 23. all railroad labor contracts. due to expire on july 1. 1973. signal the threat of a nationwide rail stoppage at that time. in addition. settlement has been reached with the longshoremen on the east and gulf coast ports. whose agreement to work without contract expired yesterday. thus carrying the threat of a renewed dock strike. the floor of the house and senate. in the midst of an emergency. is  the proper arena to resolve such disputes.  is the current system of extrastatutory intervention by the executive branch. without some form of permanent strike legislation. however. we may soon find ourselves once again called upon to pass emergency legislation to resolve individual disputes. i strongly urge. therefore. that the subcommittee on transportation and aeronautics reconsider its recent decision on pending emergency transportation strike legislation. so that the congress will  be denied the opportunity to consider more effective procedures for dealing with these disruptive situations.
that is a leap that i am.  quite prepared to agree to. let me just say this: we have a philosophic difference here. the philosophic difference is as follows: the republicans are saying let competition work. let the marketplace take effect just like it is in 85 percent of construction. what the democrats are saying is   -that we are going to give a special privilege. a fixed wage. as it were. to those who are working on government jobs. namely. in this case. highway construction. what they are saying is that these wages are  going to be fixed by the free market or by what the employer wishes to pay or what the workers are prepared to accept. they are going to be guided solely by what is kn as the prevailing wage. we all k that the prevailing wage is the union wage. that is a fact. i think you have great difficulty showing many sections of the country where the socalled prevailing wage under davisbacon is  the union wage. so what the democrats are saying is this is the way we want to do business. we want to say that only those companies that have had a history of paying the union wage. that are big egh to handle all the complexities involved with the recordkeeping. with the forms. with the compliance with davisbacon. will be able to bid on these jobs. the little fellow who is out there and has done well. in let us. say home construction or in sidewalk paving. or driveway paving. he can bid on a paving job for the u.s. government or for the highway administration or for the state highways where there is federal money contributed. he is out. that is a fact. davisbacon is a protective device for two things: for union wages. and union employees. union members. and for the big construction companies. it is surprise that the senator from ilis is quoting some construction company saying we want to keep davisbacon. of course they do. and it is probably one of the biggest construction companies because they can keep everybody else out. the little fellow who comes in at a lower price. at a better bid. he is out. to me that is a very. very strange way of doing business. it is saying that competition is  going to prevail. that is really what davisbacon says. you can have competition except under these limited rules where you are going to pay the prevailing wage. i listened carefully to the distinguished senator from massachusetts yesterday who had a very vigorous speech. as a matter of fact. all speeches the senator from massachusetts gives are vigorous speeches. with the volume turned up on occasion. his point is that you are going to drive everybody else into the poorhouse. they are depressing wages. this wicked business of competition. that is like saying all the companies. the workers that work on the 85 percent of the other construction in the united states  covered by davisbacon. what are we talking about. we are talking about building a building. building a warehouse. building housing. building apartment houses. that is  covered by davisbacon unless the government in some fashion has contributed. as the senator ks. that is the rules that guide when davisbacon applies. the idea is that everybody that is doing construction in these other government jobs is just in rags. has been beaten down by the competitive system. that is sense. we all k that is sense. those who are good. if you are a good worker and have the skills and can produce. you get the job and you get the pay. and to say that everybody is working at a minimum wage. a carpenter or a latheman. an electrician. a plumber. whatever it is. is working at some scroungy minimum wage because he does  have davisbacon to protect him is total sense. i am sorry that the suggestion has been made. we can argue whether we want to have the government getting into setting these wages. as in effect we are doing. that is fine. but to suggest that everybody is poverty stricken if davisbacon should be eliminated is just  so.
 sought to relieve a national tragedy. others were enacted when amtrak was first created in the early 1970s. well before the railroads financial problems had developed. in any event. it is important to e that many of these provisions are mandated by law. rather than agreed to through the traditional collectivebargaining process that businesses and labor unions across america deal with regularly. other employers in the united states are certainly  required by law to provide worker benefits similar to those required of amtrak. if financial and operational viability is going to be restored at amtrak. we simply must take a candid and reasonable look at all of the very unique laws-- just the labor protectionsthat have hindered amtraks ability to succeed. we must also ensure that. like its counterparts in the aviation and highway sectors. passenger rail is provided a reasonable level of support for capital improvements. these are the goals this bill seeks to achieve. and i am pleased that senate is able to take it up today. specifically. when amended by this substitute. s. 738 will: authorize $5.163 billion for amtrak over the next 5 years. mandate that amtrak be independent of federal operating subsidies in 5 years. repeal two statutes that affect work rules at amtrak. and put them into the collective bargaining process. these outdated statutes prohibit amtrak from contracting out. and mandate 6 years of severance pay for laid off employees. impose a reasonable cap on punitive damages on rail transportation liability. create an amtrak reform council [arc] that will regularly evaluate amtraks financial performance to ensure accountability to the taxpayer. clarify that the $2.3 billion included within the tax bill can only be used for amtrak capital improvements. when taken together. the provisions of this legislation will restore financial viability to amtrak by permitting the company to operate more like a business. the bill also gives the u.s. taxpayer the assurance that congress will longer provide openended subsidies to passenger rail. there are allegations that amtraks operational reforms are being sought as a ploy to make it less expensive to eliminate these jobs and shut down the railroad altogether. this contention is ludicrous. the biggest threat to these jobs is maintaining the status quo. which is  financially viable for amtrak. if things continue under the current framework. amtrak will soon be forced into bankruptcy. such an outcome would eliminate all of amtraks 20.000 jobs. to say hing of depriving the nation of a needed service. ultimately. our effort to ensure that passenger rail survives into the 21st century should be focused on the customer: we should help ensure that conditions exist that will allow amtrak to provide efficient. reliable national transportation service without adversely impacting its workforce or burdening u.s. taxpayers. absent this service. amtraks customers would go elsewhere. and our highways and airports would become severely clogged. this legislation ensures the viability of passenger rail service for the traveling public. and i urge my colleagues to support it.
 sought to relieve a national tragedy. others were enacted when amtrak was first created in the early 1970s. well before the railroads financial problems had developed. in any event. it is important to e that many of these provisions are mandated by law. rather than agreed to through the traditional collectivebargaining process that businesses and labor unions across america deal with regularly. other employers in the united states are certainly  required by law to provide worker benefits similar to those required of amtrak. if financial and operational viability is going to be restored at amtrak. we simply must take a candid and reasonable look at all of the very unique laws-- just the labor protectionsthat have hindered amtraks ability to succeed. we must also ensure that. like its counterparts in the aviation and highway sectors. passenger rail is provided a reasonable level of support for capital improvements. these are the goals this bill seeks to achieve. and i am pleased that senate is able to take it up today. specifically. when amended by this substitute. s. 738 will: authorize $5.163 billion for amtrak over the next 5 years. mandate that amtrak be independent of federal operating subsidies in 5 years. repeal two statutes that affect work rules at amtrak. and put them into the collective bargaining process. these outdated statutes prohibit amtrak from contracting out. and mandate 6 years of severance pay for laid off employees. impose a reasonable cap on punitive damages on rail transportation liability. create an amtrak reform council [arc] that will regularly evaluate amtraks financial performance to ensure accountability to the taxpayer. clarify that the $2.3 billion included within the tax bill can only be used for amtrak capital improvements. when taken together. the provisions of this legislation will restore financial viability to amtrak by permitting the company to operate more like a business. the bill also gives the u.s. taxpayer the assurance that congress will longer provide openended subsidies to passenger rail. there are allegations that amtraks operational reforms are being sought as a ploy to make it less expensive to eliminate these jobs and shut down the railroad altogether. this contention is ludicrous. the biggest threat to these jobs is maintaining the status quo. which is  financially viable for amtrak. if things continue under the current framework. amtrak will soon be forced into bankruptcy. such an outcome would eliminate all of amtraks 20.000 jobs. to say hing of depriving the nation of a needed service. ultimately. our effort to ensure that passenger rail survives into the 21st century should be focused on the customer: we should help ensure that conditions exist that will allow amtrak to provide efficient. reliable national transportation service without adversely impacting its workforce or burdening u.s. taxpayers. absent this service. amtraks customers would go elsewhere. and our highways and airports would become severely clogged. this legislation ensures the viability of passenger rail service for the traveling public. and i urge my colleagues to support it.
as far as i am concerned. what bothers me is the legislation introduced by the senator from rhode island has hing to do with any of these factors. other than to employ democrats. and particularly democratic politicians. and i feel quite vexed that this side is accused of filibustering when in fact the other side has brought in irrelevant material and there are people out of work while we debate this grab on behalf of democratic presidential candidates. i am going to stay in the senate all night. if need be. until we can get down to considering legislation to get the ecoy back on the road and get people back to work. that is what we are here for for ourselves.
. in june of this year. the senate authorized a loan of $150 million to the wheelingpittsburgh steel corp. the debate on that matter was rather heated. the position of the junior senator from connecticut was that the loan did  meet the criteria as set forth by law. point  2 was that material financial misrepresentations had been made by the wheelingpittsburgh steel corp. and/or its officers. and the third point was that to grant the loan for the purpose statedthat of building a steel rail millwould create an excess capacity situation in the industry which would only cause further unemployment as far as other steel companies were concerned. at the time of the debate. the junior and senior senators from west virginia and the junior senator from pennsylvania were on the floor and my statements were contested by themfairly in some instances. rather unfairly in others. the innuendo was cast forth by one of the participants in the debate that my opposition to that loan was generated by some sort of personal or political selfinterest.
. 350 years ago an event occurred in this country which has had lasting implications for the wellbeing of our society and its people. in august of 1619. the first black men were brought to america. i believe it is particularly instructive at this zime to look at the purpose for which they came. they were brought aboard a dutch slave ship to the english colony at jamestown. va.. to relieve an acute labor shortage in that small but thriving town. in the process. they were treated differently from 100 young english lads who were also imported as laborers in the same year. both groups of immigrants. blacks and whites together. were classed as indentured servants. they worked for the number of years required by their contract and. to a man. they were freed. in both groups of immigrants were men who eventually became landowners. and even slaveholders themselves once that despicable institution was legalized in the colony. on september 21. 1969. a ceremony will be held in jamestown. va.. commemorating the arrival of these first black citizens. and ing the important contribution which americans of african descent have made to this country since its founding. i ask unanimous consent that a statement of objectives of the committee which has planned this celebration be printed in the record.
i appreciate the senators remark. and i wish to emphasize that thatfact has been recognized by the government for many years. and that therefore. with regard to the navigable waterways of the nation. the united states has attempted to equalize that differential as between those localities. and to assist in making the navigable waters of the nation national highways. open to use by anyone who can use them . madam president. i  refer to the tabulation which i mentioned. it appears on page 10 of the pamphlet which has been placed on the desks of senators. and it shows the assembly cost of making steel products. it appears that in steubenville. for example. the total estimated assembly costs per ton are. $6.565. at pittsburgh $6.626. and at youngstown $7.741. that makes a margin of $13115 against -youngstown in favor of the pittsburgh area. . we are n6t arguing for anything other than a fairadjustment based on the actual cost of transportation available by means of the available waterways. if the waterway were built or were available. the cost of assembly at youngstown still would be higher than- the cost of assembly at pittsburgh.- but instead. of- being $7.741 it would be $6.891. or still a handicap of about 27 cents. as against the assembly cost of $6.626 at pittsburgh. coming to the question ofthe demonstrated benefits. as shown by the board of engineers for rivers and harbors. let me say that a miity report was filed from the senate committee on commerce. the miity consisting. of the junior senator from wyoming: . his report considers the matter in some detail. and i might comment upon it by saying that it makes the following interesting observations: the river and harbor bill is inally a bill dealing with navigation and water transportation. deepening of channels. construction of piers and harbors. and generally those matters which make water transportation possible. a vast system of federally constructed waterways. based on a channel 9 feet deep and some 300 feet wide. has been built with federal funds and is maintained by annual federal appropriations. in the central and thern areas these inland waterway systems are  subject to year around use. and consequently the areas they serve are forced to rely on other means of* transportation during 2. 3. 4. or 5 months of the yeardependingon the location. mention of this great handicap is made in the bill. the result is that yearround transportation companies have to hold additional equipment in readiness for the shortperiod use of their systems. it is evidently intended to refer somewhat to the pending project. therefore. i should like to say that the average time which proposed waterways in the thern latitudes will be closed to navigation is estimated by the army engineers from operating and weather records. and is published in their individual project reports forming the basis for river and harbor bills. wherever these limitations exist. the effect of the seasonal character of the transportation is recognized in formulating the plans of operation and in computing the value of the benefits. the churning effect of passing tows and the progressive improvement in icebreaking technique are constantly prolonging the open navigation season in these latitudes. for instance. the latest report recommending provision of the beavermahoning improvement. which has been singled out for criticism in the miity report. estimates the period of navigation at 350 days out of the year. i am referring to house document 178. seventysixth congress. paragraphs 112. 354. 384. and 394. they indicate. i may point out. that whereas on lake erie a large period of the yearperhaps at themost 90 daysis to be allowed as a factor. in these considerations. on the short canal. as distinguished from the long canal. comparable period is to be eliminated. that is why .the estimate is. made by the engineers on the basis of 350 days. as a matter of fact. they said in their report that the full year can be used as the basis. the conditon existing on the beaver and mahoning rivers is substantially the same as that. which exists on the.ohio river. on ihe mogahela and the allegheny waterways. materials adapted to water transportation.. such as iron ore and other ores limestone. raw: chemicals. fuels.. iron. steel. logs. lumber. -pulpwood.. cotton. grain. - sugar. coffee. canned goods.. and other staples making up the bulk of bargeborne freight on the inland waterways. readily lend themselves to seasonal transportation and to storage and stock piling against winter demands. they are - dependent to any considerable. extent on other means of transport between water ports. and it is  necessary -to maintain standby- service to handle offseason movements. traffic records -show that the peak demand on the equipment and service of the thern railroads mally comes.  during the closed season for navigation but during the period from june through october. when waterway transportation is also at its busiest. the largescale traffic in ore. coal. and grain on the great lakes. which is adjusted to an open season of only 8 months. is an extreme example of seasonal water movements that do  require or use standby overland carrier equipment to supplement vessel service between ports. so far as the beavermahoning short canal is concerned. there is necessity to maintain such equipment of railroads to take care of the closed condition of the canal during the winter season. because the periods when it will be closed are so short. if any. that they would  require it. and in any event stock piling would take care of the situation with respect to practically all the products which would be transported on the canal. i again refer to the miity report. which contains the following paragraph: various navigation projects calling for construction of new or of enlarging existing channels are approved by the committee on a basis oi socalled b~nefits which are the rates charged for transporting freight on the subsidized inland waterways as compared with the rate charged for transportation on existing systems. in arriving at the ratebased benefit. which. in general. is that of estimated watarborne transportation rates as compared to existing railroad rates between the same points. but a fundamental and basic consideration in the waterborne transportation rate is omitted. that is  a correct statement. because the computation of the benefits is  made merely on the basis of a comparison between the water rates and the railroad rates. but the other items are also taken into consideration. as i shall show in a moment. the basis on which navigation projects are approved by the committee -is -the ratio of the annual transportation. benefits to the full annual costs to both the federal government and local interests. annual costs include. the expense ofconstruction. amortization. maintenance. and -operation -of -the waterways. with interest figures at the current. rates at which the required funds can be obtained by the united states and local interests. respectively. gross benefits are the estimated savings in -transportation charges they are derived from a comparison of prospective watercarrier charges via the proposed- improvement on freight movements found ecoically adapted to barge transport. with prevailing charges via the most ecoical existing means of. transportation. be it railroad. motor truck. pipe line. or other agency. since the present transportation charges presumably -provide. for a reasonable income on the total investment of present carriers the. estimated charges by water likewise.provide for a reasonable income on the total estimated investment of the water carrier. * madam president. in the statement of miity views is the following paragraph: comparison is made between railroad rates and estimated rates on waterborne traffic. railroad rates are -based. on the cost of construction. and maintenance -of the railroad bed and trackage and the operation thereon of power units and freight cars hauling freight on this railroad trackage. and the paying of vast sums in taxes and the supporting of hundreds of thousands of men and women receiving a good living wage and operating under regulated conditions. these factors go to the making of the rate of the railroads which. with their dependability and speed of movement of freight. have been  only invaluable but an absolute necessity to our great war effort. that is the end of the quotation from the miity views at that point. but by way of comment the paragraph includes five more or less unrelated allegations which may best be separated and dealt with. first. that railroad rates cover full costs including rightsofway. roadbed. and trackage. it is true that railroad revenues must. in the aggregate. cover all expenses. including a return on investment. if the enterprise is to prosper. railroad rates on specific commodity movements do  usually bear any direct relationship to the cost of. carrier service. they are maintained. with the approval of the regulatory agencies. rather on the principle of the value of carrier service. which is the one way of describing the highest rates that the various shippers can pay without being driven to seek some alternative agency of transport. second. that railroads pay taxes. one of the essential characteristics of rail transportation is that the carriers own. occupy. and put to exclusive private use. extensive areas of valuable real property on the other hand. one of the inherent advantages of water transportation is that commercial carriers do  occupy or need exclusive roadways for their linehaul operations. but instead share with other craft. and for other public purposes. the natural. traditionally taxfree water courses. improved by and belonging to the nation at large. they do  pay taxes on those waterways because they do  own or moolize them. and their occupancy does  withdraw those channels from any possible alternative use that would bring tax returns. third. that railroads support many employees at high wage rates. water carriers also employ all the skilled labor needed for their operations on wellregulated hour schedules and at liberal and attractive wage rates. i fourth. that rail carriers move freight at higher speeds than do water carriers. the speed of barge transport is. like its cost. much more moderate than that by rail. perishables and other goods requiring speedy delivery mally seek airways. highways. or railways in preference to waterways. however. a large proportion of the nations freight burden does  need such expeditious handling. but is suited to barge transportation where it can be moved ecoically and efficiently. and where the desired commodity movements are so adapted. the savings in transportation costs are genuine and substantial. fifth. that railroads render indispensable service in wartime. the fact that railroads concededly render essential war service should  in any way preclude recognition of the essential character of waterway transportation service in war. the present emergency has shown the vital necessity for both kinds of transportation. utilization of inland river boat yards for the construction of approximately 1.700 seagoing fighting ships and their movement downstream to the gulf for placement in commission. when coastal shipyards were operating at capacity. made a contribution to the war effort sufficient by itself to justify the waterway system. madam president. the statement of miity views continues to discuss a number ofmatters of the same general type. in order to conserve the time of the senate i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a copy of the quotations from the miity views. i have prepared such copy. as well as my comments upon the quotations involved. and i will supply a copy of them to the senator from wyoming if he so requests.
. i feel i should reply to the suggestion made by the chairman of the committee. hing would please me more than to say i agree to all the suggestions he has made. i am afraid i can agree. i feel those which are technical in nature are  desirable. the amendment was worked out on the basis of experience under the davisbacon act and the deliberations of the committee dealing with the highway bill. on the two questions of major substance. whether the application of the davisbacon act should be limited to construction programs involving more than onequarter of a million dollars. it seems to me it would defeat the very purpose we are trying to accomplish and in the very places we are trying to obtain the objective. i see need to provide for giving the power to waive the provisions of the amendment to the secretary of labor or any other person. because there is history at all of projects being delayed because of the need for such determination. as i pointed out in my initial statement. in a single year approximately 31/2 million craft minimums will be established.
i would just like to tell the gentleman i think the greatest hope for the handicapped is in constructive employment. i am very much interested in the amendment. there may be some reasons against it. but certainly as a matter of principle we should do everything that we humanly can to get these people productively employed and provide the skilled guidance necessary to achieve that result. i wish. therefore. to state my support for the gentlemans amendment. also. i might add that i have pursued the same subject by introducing a bill to allow additional exemption of $600 per annum of taxable income for those under serious physical handicaps. and also i have raised with the ways and means committee the question of special expenses for travel to and from work of the physically handicapped attributable to their condition.
we have received information that the railroads were opposed to the bill. but that railroad labor favored it. of course. that is  unusual in respect of legislation. however. i e that the icc. according to its letter of june 24. 1959. which is contained in the committee report. is opposed to the bill also. has anything been done to meet the objections which were raised by the icc in respect to this bill.
. pan american has many thousands of employees in the greater new york area who will be protected by this unique compromise whereby the flight engineers. united plant guard workers and brotherhood of railway clerks will be guaranteed job security and the airline will be able to operate without undue work restrictions. pan american is one of our important international carriers. it is  governmentowned like most of its international competition. it is owned by american citizens as stockholdersapproximately 35.000 strong. the new york times of july 9. 1963. carries a most interesting article concerning the successful labor negotiations achieved by pam am and the unions involved and i think this article should be brought to the attention of every member of the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article be made a part of the record.
s emergency bill. we should also place a time limit on this aspect of the program and get to it promptly. there have been many difficulties in the railroad situation within the past 5 or 10 years. great adjustments by labor will be requiredand also. in my opinion. some support by the governmentin order to prevent automation from becoming a hardship on laborwhich certainly one wants. automation will involve problems of labormanagement relations similar to those in the railroad situation. as well as problems of retraining. relocation. early retirement. and interim compensation during periods of unemployment induced by automation.
in reply to the majority leader. i do  consider it finding fault when one calls to the attention of ones colleagues his views as to our responsibilities in respect to the state of the nation and the state of the world. i do  charge anything but good faith. i do  charge anything in respect of hard work. every senator works hard. i do  believe i need to apologize for the number of hours i put in.  does the majority leader. the miity leader. or any other senator. i only pointed out last week the mountain of labor and the number of crises which we facebeginning with civil rights. the nuclear testban agreement. the railroad strike. endemic unemployment. and all the other issues which i mentionedwhat we have done about them. and the urgency of their timing. i am very glad to join with the majority leader in putting the question in focus. it is a question of whether we are acting in time in terms of the repute of the congress and the country as the key legislative body to meet the crises before us. we may show the best faith in the world. but the question is. are we in time in meeting our responsibilities. that question does  charge any bad faith. in my opinion. we are credited with the utmost good faith. the question is. are we meeting our responsibilities. on that question i believe the congressional quarterly bears out what i said last week with respect to the standstill nature of the congress.
i believe i k what the senator from west virginia is asking about. i had a great deal to do with drafting the point we are talking about. i should like to point out that the operative words of section 602 in title vi are these: "which shall be consistent with achievement of the objectives of the statute authorizing the financial assistance." i invite the attention of the senator from west virginia to page 33. lines 9. 10. and 11 of the amendment in the nature of a substitute. in short. the only time there can be a cutoff of funds is if the segregation or discrimination is being practiced in respect to a matter which if stopped will still  throw us out in this definition as to the "achievement of the objectives of the statute authorizing the financial assistance." taking the case of the schools to which the senator is referring. and the danger of envisaging the rule or regulation relating to racial imbalance. it is negated expressly in the bill. which would compel racial balance. therefore. there is case in which the thrust of the statute under which the money would be given would be directed toward restoring or bringing about a racial balance in the schools. if such a rule were adopted or promulgated by a bureaucrat. and approved by the president. the senators state would have an open and shut case under section 603. that is why we have provided for judicial review. the senator ks as a lawyer that we never can stop anyone from suing.  stop any government official from making a fool of himself. or from trying to do something that he has right to do. except by remedies provided by law. so i believe it is that set of words which is operative. let me give the senator an example. because we discussed the question in great detail. we discussed in great detail the situation in which a contractor on government workthat is. work in which the united states puts up some of the money. assume he is a road contractor and was discriminating in his business against hiring negroes. but he was  discriminating on that particular job. i state for the record that because he was discriminating generally. but was  discriminating on that job. we could  cut off his funds because the statute which permitted the federal government to put up its share of the money did  apply to the contractors general business operations. it applied only to the construction of the road.
that is exactly what i did in committee. i think that is the best thing that can be done under the circumstances before us. though it does  represent an optimum solution in this controversy. . this is a public utility industry. it is a public service industry. hence. the rules which we have a right to apply in respect of labormanagement relations here are different from what they would be were this a different kind of business. indeed. the railway labor act itself carries out that intent. the essential direction of the resolution which we are consideringof which the senior senator from oregon was the original authoris to carry out the technique and philosophy of the railway labor act. that. i think. is a proper and a very intelligent way in which to handle the situation. one of the things which has troubled me and has troubled the senior senator from oregon and so many other senators is the fact that after all of the pain and anguish we went through in 1963 with the railroad dispute. the scares which we have had with steel and other industries. the privations which the people of the city of new york endured during their transit strike. and the difficulties which we currently face in the airlines strikewith other impending strikes at general electric. westinghouse. in communications. the steel industry. the trucking industry. and the automobile industrywe still do  have anything on the books to deal with the essential and final responsibility of government to insure its own operations. i do  believe that the proposed legislation. dealing with a specific emergency. will be complete when it leaves here. unless it contains something which indicates our determination  to go unprepared any longer. in such a serious way. in the national interest.
the senator is correct. of course. the provisions of the bill would allow an agreement between the parties. and i should like to make that clear. in section 2 we find that there will be change in the previous conditions. that is. in the contract that has expired. except by agreement. that is contained in line 4. section 2 of the substitute. but is it  also a fact that we will expect a special airline dispute board to mediate as between management and labor while they are at work under this resolution.
i do  expect anything from either the president or the secretary of labor. i have had expecta-. tions. . for over a year. they have been completely dashed. i do  believe that either the president or the secretary of labor can resolve his own uncertainties and doubts and come to a purposeful conclusion as to what to recommend to congress. it is my considered judgment that unless congress takes the initiative in doing what it believes must be done. it will find itself faced. once again. with a crisis. the panic button will be pushed again. as it was in the airline strike. we will have some makeshift. jerrybuilt piece of legislation which will  last beyond the immediate moment. i predict this: just as 500. certainly  more than 700. men who pilot tugboats tied up the entire city of new york until there was a danger of its freezing to death. so one day we will again find ourselves looking right down the muzzle of a gun. at that time. all of us. whether we are prolabor. antilabor. or moderate on the labor issuewill be forced to admit that "we have never done our duty in this matter. we are  paying for it. and so is the country." it might happen that the senateor the house of representativeswould get itself into such a wrangle that meaningful action would prove to be impossible. so far. we have been remarkably lucky. we were completely boxed in during the airline strike. fortunately. americans have some sense of discipline and some sense of patriotism. matter how impatient they may be. but we can always be that lucky. we are lucky . there seems to be a general consensus on the passage of this joint resolutionit provides for an extension of only 20 days. some day. however. we are going to have a national strike and i am convinced that unless congress initiates action. hing will happen. and the countrythe nationwill be in a state of complete vulnerability. we have  had two scares. we may have more than that the third time out.
. depending on the climate. i wish to call this language to the attention of the senate and ask that they listen to this. the senator from massachusetts is a very nice man. we like him very much. but we are going to pass on this amendment and  him. i ask that the senate listen to this language: (1) the compensation board established under section 4(c) to determine the amount to be paid as just compensation shall  consider the profit to the carriers for the period of receivership in such determination unless the special railroad arbitration board appointed pursuant to section 6 certifies to the compensation board that the failure to consider such profit would be inequitable * * * on what ground and by whom would it be determined that it would be inequitable. i shall refer to aher gimmick in this language: how is this compensation to be adjusted. on the basis that the facilities are struck. that means they would get hing. that was the gimmick in the yarborough amendment. and it is the gimmick in this amendment. i think it is basically defective. as a matter of law. i shall tell the senate what the amendment comes down to. we have more business to be here debating this amendment than we would my own seizure proposal. this would only bedevil us because it requires much more study by labor and management in a deliberative way and study by the executive department in a deliberate way. it may finally unlock the door but it does  belong in an ad hoc bill for one situation. the administration has been derelict and we have been derelict for  coping with this matter. but to cope with it in a detailed and involved proposal which has had real studywe first heard of it yesterday morning in committee. it has had hearingsis  the way to proceed. i think it would be very wrong to adopt this amendment. the only justification for seizure would be if it were necessary to get the wheels rolling in time of war. we are in a war. but there should  be a seizure to punish management. that is what this proposal is and it is what the yarborough proposal was. the senate would be improvident if it adopted this proposal rather than the plan which has been submitted. i agree with the seilator from oregon. i would  adopt it as a permanent measure to deal with strikes but we are in default and we have  dealt with the problem.
. i serve with the distinguished senator from vermont . who is next to me in rank on the committee on labor and public welfare. where he has rendered magnificent services to education. health. and many other of our responsibilities. i take especial pride in the way the senator from vermont has developed the plans for the bill on the intercity railroad passenger service. especially as we have tried in the committee to develop ways in which the private enterprise system and its financial techniques could be made to work. i think a very admirable plan has been evolved here and should like to congratulate the manager of the bill. the senator from indiana . especially i take pride in the work that the senator from vermont has done in putting this extremely important program together.
that seems to me why i would vote against it. we would have to hire a chauffeur ourselves just to avoid all the parking problems. does the senator want these fellows to spend an hour or two trying to find a place to park. every pool i k of in my state and in the city has chauffeurs or drivers. i do  care whether they are called chauffeurs or drivers. if the senator is going to make it that tight. it is counterproductive. the senator might as well tell us to prepare our own lunch.
. the bill authorizes $300 million for fiscal year 1975 and "such sums as may be necessary" for fiscal year 1976 to make financial assistance available for the provision of approximately 20.000 transitional public service jobsat an average cost of $10.000 per job per yearto unemployed and underemployed persons. to maintain and rehabilitate railroad lines and facilities of railroad carriers in the nation. the bill combines and coordinates the functions of the departments of transportation and labor. utilizing the expertise and resources of each. initially. the secretary of transportation would certify to the secretary of labor those common carriers by rail that meet the primary eligibility requirements of the bill. which encompass three categories: first. those carriers that have lines or facilities within the proposed conrail system in the theastmidwest region. or within the area of any other corporation set up in the restructuring process  being performed by the u.s. railway association. second. those carriers that have routes or facilities on the amtrak system. and third. those lines or facilities that are identified by a state as essential to local or regional fail transpor-. tation needs. projects funded pursuant to the third category would be a shared federalstate program. with the state providing at least 30 percent of the funding. in addition to these primary criteria. the secretary of transportation would identify those lines on which improvement would significantly contribute to the nations rail transportation system. which can be initiated promptly and which can be completed quickly. the secretary of labor would then allocate funding. utilizing the certifications and recommendations of the department of transportation. to those programs that are in areas of highest unemployment. and on projects that are most labor intensive. the secretary of labor is directed to establish procedures for the referral of persons. tying in with the system of state and local prime sponsors under the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973. importantly. the bill contains strong provisions to insure that collectivebargaining provisions are respected. that wages are at prevailing levels. and that persons who have previously been laid off from positions the same as or similar to those funded. will have first opportunity to be rehired. finally. the bill includes provisions to minimize the extent to which the public funding accrues to private interests. in the case of conrail type projects. the entire increased value to the rail properties attributable to the program will flow to the new federally chartered corporations rather than to the existing creditors of the bankrupt carriers. in the case of solvent carriers on the amtrak system that receives funding. the applicant would be required to execute an agreement by amtrak reducing the user fees paid by amtrak to the owner carrier to reflect the increased value attributable to the federal contribution for labor. thus. to a large extent. this emergency program will reduce later payments that would have to be made in later years to conrail and amtrak. the bill is designed to meet simultaneously two very crucial needs of the nation.
. i urge the senate to pass the pending legislation. h.r. 8714. which provides for needed improvements in the railroad unemployment insurance program. last week. sehator wxlmams. senator. schweiker. and i introduced an almost identical bill which was referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. at that time. the chairman of our committee ified all interested parties to submit statements to the committee by today if they wished hearings on this legislation. requests for hearings were received. the administration. however. has expressed concern about the financing of the bill. which i shall discuss shortly. over the past 6 months the congress has twice acted to provide additional compensation benefits for workers coverered under the regular unemployment insurance programs. and for those who were without any unemployment compensation protections at all. railroad employees. however. have  received the benefits of any of this action. the railroad unemployment insurance program is a totally separate program established by the congress in 1938. benefit eligibility and amounts are established by law. benefits are financed by a separate tax on all railroad employers. the program is administered by the railroad retirement board. since its 1938 enactment. the program has been amended several times to provide for an increase in benefits under the program. and to make other changes. when originally enacted. the program provided a daily benefit maximum of $3 per day. the most recent amendments to the act were made in 1968. which raised the maximum benefits level from $10.20 to $12.70 per day. the bill that we are considering today will raise the maximum daily benefit to $24 per day for the period from july 1. 1975 to june 30. 1976. thereafter. the maximum benefit will be $25 per day. these increases are designed to compensate unemployed railroad workers for the rampant inflation which they. like all other workers in this nation. have suffered in the 7 years since the act was last amended. the basic benefit standardreplacement of 60 percent of most recent wagesis retained in the program. the bill also provides. for the first time. a program of extended unemployment compensation benefits for railroad workers with less than 10 years of seniority. workers with over 10 years of seniority are already protected against longterm unemployment by an extended benefits program. the bill would provide extended benefits. to workers with less than 10 years of seniority who suffer long term unemployment. and exhaust their entitlements under the regular railroad unemployment compensation benefits. at the same rate as they receive regular benefits. this extended benefits program contains a triggering mechanism patterned after that contained in the federalstate extended unemployment compensation program. the extended benefits program for rail employees would trigger "on" whenever the trigger for the federalstate extended benefits program was "on." or if that trigger were  on. whenever the rate of railroad unemployment equaled or exceeded the "on" trigger rate established for the federalstate extended benefits program. the program would trigger "off" when the federalstate extended benefits program triggered "off." and the rate of railroad unemployment dropped below the trigger level in the regular extended benefits program. this provision of extended benefits for the least senior employees of the railroad industry is most particularly important during periods of ecoic crisis. such as we are currently experiencing. be-. cause these workers. who are low on the senloirty list. are likely to be among the. first workers laid off when business declines.
