under the recommendations of the conferees that would be lawful if it was done in good faith and  pursuant to a combination. conspiracy. or collusive agreement and did  constitute a moolistic. oppressive. deceptive. or fraudulent practice. on the second major difference between the two houses. this was the issue: assuming a prima facie case of discrimination is shown by the federal trade commission. what shall be the effect of a showing that the person engaging in the discrimination did so in good faith to meet competition. the house said that it shall  be a defense if competition with either the buyer or the seller or any customer of either. on an individual basis. is lessened. the kefauver amendment said it shall be a defense unless competition generally is substantially lessened by that practice. the houseand i will be glad to have the particular attention of the gentleman from colorado on this. because i am endeavoring to express our conception of his viewsthe house. as your conferees understood the matter. was concerned  only with the effect on competition generally. but with competition in individual cases. in other words. if a person sold at one price to one person and at aher price to aher person and did so collusively. or for the purpose of driving out competition. or in the exercise of a moolistic. oppressive. or fraudulent practice. the house did  want him to get away with that. even though competition generally might  be substantially affected. as your conferees understood the position of the house. competition between specific individuals was the thing you were concerned with if collusion or oppressive. moolistic. or fraudulent practices were involved. the house and the senate conferees. both. agreed  to take the carroll amendment and  to take the kefauver amendment. instead. they put at the end of the paragraph these words: except that thisnamely. the defense of good faith in meeting competitlon-"shall  make unlawful any combination. conspiracy. or collusive agreement or any moolistic. oppressive. deceptive. or fraudulent practice" engaged in by one individual in his relations with aher. regardless of the effect on competition generally. those things would be outlawed. even though a person doing them was merely meeting competition in good faith. so i think you will understand that we were  discarding the house view and that we were  discarding the senate view of this matter. we were attempting definitely to get at the substance of both views by this language. i believe we have done so insofar as it is possible to reconcile views which at the outset seemed to diverge so far. i am quite sure that the fears expressed by my distinguished chairman that this would lead to widespread mooly and all the rest are completely without substantial basis. i am quite sure that we have protected. even as the majority of the members of the house felt they should be protected. the rights of small business. 1 collusive. moolistic. oppressive. deceptive. or fraudulent act can be justified by anyone engaging in such an act under the language recommended by the conferees. even though he may be able to show that he was. in good faith. meeting competition. that is completely out. i do  believe there is any better solution to the problem raised by the differing views of the two houses than that which the conferees. in complete good faith. have brought in to you this aftern. i urge that the conferees be supported in the position they have taken and which they recommend that you take. i 
