can we deny the serious adverse effect on our prestige abroad caused by little rock. can we afford to overlook the importance to the enlightened selfinterest of the united states in meeting the coldwar challenge of acting to make full civil rights a living reality to all the people of america. we most assuredly can. yet there is a really encouraging point i find from the reaction of the world to little rock. and it points the way to the future. it. is the understanding along with the criticism on this issue we got from public opinion outside the communist bloc. it was well expressed and summarized by a page 1 editorial in the times of indonesia. which summed up: tb us itciv97 little rockis a personal triumph for president eisenhower. a reaffirmation by americans of their faith in the democratic system of government and a heartening example of human progress under the rule of law. i am convinced that this understanding of our situation demonstrates the vast reservoir of basic good will that we have succeeded in building up throughout the world. good will that leads to understanding that we have a serious problem regarding civil rights and willingness to adopt a policy of waiting to see if and how we will act to solve that problem. our opportunity  is to press forward with a solution. indeed. there are great traditions of patriotic leadership in the very areas of the south where segregation persists in public education. i would hope very much that the people there could be made to recognize how much it would contribute to the strength of our future for national security if they could lay aside their undoubtedly sincere feelings on segregation in educational facilities . in the newly created civil rights commission. we have the vehicle to provide the mediation facilities and technical assistance to school districts in the south to enable them to comply with the supreme court desegregation ruling. we should move ahead as rapidly as possible in that area. former ambassador and our former colleague. clare boothe luce. said in a great speech at the alfred e. smith memorial dinner in new york city on october 17. 1957: we implore our southern neighborsand those in the th who agree with their stands on segregation and integrationif they will  lift. their eyes to the highest heaven. at least to lift them as high as the sputnik. on october 3 president eisenhower wrote bishop r. brown. of arkansas: if we ourselves defy the instruments by which our liberties have been and are being preserved. our vulnerability to the outside threat will be vastly. even terrifyingly. increased. finally. . that i have made my remarks today. in view of the immediate challenge to survival of everything we hold dear.
