. it was my intention at this time to have before the senate an amendment that expresses my deep concern over the revised 5year outer continental shelf oil and gas leasing program developed and approved by the secretary of the interior james watt. this is because there are several aspects of the 5year ocs program that worry me. the first is that the magnitude and timing of ocs leasing may significantly impair our ability to assess the potential for and prevent significant deterioration of the environment. there are tremendous gaps in both our kledge about the ocs. especially in frontier areas. and the techogy necessary to limit. capoff and cleanup an oil spill or blowout. under the 5year ocs program these gaps will be exasperated by the areawide leasing schedule. it is vital that the collection and analyses of environmental data and oil and gas exploration and development techogies are commensurate with the magnitude and timing of the leasing. i am also worried that the affected coastal states. local governments and the public will  have their concerns adequately addressed under the 5year ocs program. it is important that under the streamlined leasing procedures of the program there is provided adequate and timely information with which affected coastal states. local governments and the public can use to base their comments on individual proposed or actual lease sales. aher aspect of the 5year ocs program that bothers me is that the method for determining fair market value for the oil and gas resources of the leased ocs lands has  been finalized. it is important that we assure the public that they will be receiving fair value when the federal government leases public lands that are held in trust. the method should be one that insures this and be completely worked out prior to implementing the 5year ocs program. these concerns were expressed during the energy conservation and supply subcommittees lengthy hearing with secretary watt and in subsequent meetings by staff with high level interior staff. these concerns are also the reason why i. along with my colleaguessenators hollings. mathias. cohen.
