i am sorry i do  see that we are adding anything to the discussion i have been on my feet for a half hour. and i have hardly gotten started. i should  like to say a few words to the majority. because we believe. and i believe. the vote by which the bill was put on the calendar showed. there is a majority that wants the civilrights bill passed. i think it is fair to say. for myself and any other senators who are devoted to the bill. that to agree to the omahoneykefauverchurch amendment would  only gut the pending bill. but would impair the entire range of government activities in the fields of antitrust. fair labor standards. atomic energy. security laws. national housing act. with thought. study. consideration of the effect on national security or of the effect on government policy. it comes down to the fact that we would be doing that because the opponents of the proposed legislation are engaged in a lastditch. desperate effort to compromise and water down even the righttovote safeguards of the civilrights bill which heretofore even opponents of the original bill said they favored. i think that is a very interesting development. we are  beginning to see a procession of people who favored the striking out of part iii of the bill. but who are  arguing deeply and devotedly against the jurytrial amendment. but they are  being listened to. we start with the statement of the president. the president of the united states was very clear upon this point. when he said. and i quote from his statement of july 16. which he stuck to thereafter in his press conference. the legislation should seekto protect the constitutional right of all citizens to vote. regardless of race or color. in this connection. we seek to uphold the traditional authority of the federal courts to enforce their orders. this means that a jury trial should  be interposed in contemptofcourt cases growing out of violations of such orders. this morning i asked unanimous consent to have printed in the record a similar statement from the new york times. in which the position was taken that it is time to stop compromising. there was also printed in the record today a statement from the washington post. which asked senators to vote against part iii. at least in substantial part. and  is very firm upon the matter of voting against the jurytrial amendment. . we  come to the proof. i think this is very important. time and time again we get into diffused arguments which are  based upon proof. let us take perhaps the most signal example in the entire south of a denial of voting rights. which i think is found in the state of mississippi. we have the statement of the gover of mississippi. made as recently as june 21. 1957. to rely on. and i wish to quote his statement from the state times of jackson. miss.. to the following effect: gover coleman. i do  think negroes are ready to vote in mississippi at this time. however. i am  speaking of the future. what kind of governmental policy can we expect when the gover of a state says that a whole body of citizens. representing a large proportion of the population of that state. is  ready to vote. indeed. a pretty good job has been done in mississippi to see that they do  vote. as my colleague the senator from illis showed by the documents and figures he had printed in the record. with a total of almost 500.000 negroes who are potential voters in the state of mississippi only about 8.000 voted in the 1954 election. this voting record is in accordance with the views and determinations of the gover of the state.
