. we have a very immediate problem that requires the attention of  just the senate but principally the house of representatives and also the administration. it deals with the current fast of mitch snyder. of the community for creative violence. that fast. which includes food or water. was commenced and it relates to a shelter for the homeless here in washington. dc. more particularly to an agreement which was arrived at which required that the federal government deed the property over to the government of the district of columbia. and that $5 million be provided for the refurbishing of that facility. the scenario to this point is as follows: first. the senate has acted. it has passed legislation which would deed that property to the district of columbia. the house has  acted. the senate. by virtue of the supplemental appropriations bill passed out of committee. has acted both to deed the property and to provide the money. $5 million. as most of my colleagues k. the supplemental has  had the opportunity to be passed on by the full senate. therefore. due to inaction by the representatives. the inability to have the matter encompassed in the senate supplemental appropriations bill. the insistence of the administration that they will  deviate from the prior agreement which. in effect. required secession of that property and the $5 million. it has resulted in hing being done. the problem of mitch snyder obviously is an immediate one. the physical agony associated with this fast is great. but i have to say right  that this is really only a small section of a problem which is a disagree to all of us. it is a little hard to conceive in 90 degree weather of the misery attendant upon those who have place to lay their heads. but the fact is that in the winter months past. the shame that i felt as i passed these grates and see these unfortunates lying there. and that story is repeated  just here in washington. dc. but in new york city and such throughout the country. is such that it demands our attention and our action. so regardless of who is at fault. whether it is the house of representatives. whether it is the administration. or whether it is some procedural deficiency on our part. the fact is that unless this refurbishing commences immediately we will go through aher winter of this shame. and that is egh. i would hope this amendment. which is a senseofthesenate resolution. would be agreed to by this body and that for whatever role any of us play in it. house. senate. or administration. the commitment would be made. the property would be deeded over. the refurbishing would start. and then at least we can say for those who are the least fortunate among us. we have used our power properly as it should be used on behalf of the powerless. i urge adoption of the amendment.
i have. i think. some understanding of the position of the senator from alabama. he has been a leader in housing legislation and in legislation for the benefit of people who are disadvantaged in this country. this is what we are talking about. the question is  one of malice or anything else. i have great respect for the job the fha has done as an insurance agency. as a sound. solid business proposition.  without a heart. but solidly based upon business principles. i have great respect for what it has done in raising standards of building construction throughout the country. it has eliminated an awful lot of shoddy building and jerrybuilders. its influence has been salutary in those respects. i do have a question as to whether an agency of this kind is the place in which to put authority for the administration of what is essentially a welfare program. and ought to be. and that is the question on which i find myself in great sympathy with the senator from massachusetts.
i believe that this theme should be underlined time and again. perhaps. with so many of us vitally interested in the problem. something at long last can be done. it is almost ridiculous that a community of adult persons living in the district of columbia can have the right to conduct their own affairs. this debate illustrates the situation. it is high time for us to get our teeth into the problem. it is ridiculous that congress should have to act as a common council for the city of washington in connection with such elementary matters as real estate taxes. welfare programs. and so forth. at a time when the energies of members of congress are to so great an extent devoted to questions involving the defense and security of the united states. i am appalled and shocked at the situation in which congress must act as a city council. more and more of us are coming to feel that we can afford to allow that situation to continue.
it is also eworthy that in spite of all this alleged interest in the ghettos and slums. the president has yet to call together a white house meeting of u.s. private business leaders in order to get them to assume their obligations and their responsibilities in regard to dealing with the problems of the slums and ghettos. in my judgment. if the president approached the problem on that high a level. it would result in two things. it would result. first. in an emous increase in private developments. which have sprung up in many places necessarily with presidential inspirationand. second. in the establishment of a national entity. for which i have called. a socalled ecoic opportunity enterprise. to bring about an effective war on poverty. in addition. we would have recommendations as to what are most effective to bring it abouttax incentives. meshing the poverty program into the industrial system of the country and many other matters. finally. there are emous possibilities in the rehabilitation of ghetto housing. which is infinitely quicker in its applicability than the bulldozing down and building of new housingthough that is essential. too. in many areas of the country. in order to deal with mass rehabilitation of ghetto housing we must involve the private enterprise system. there are already a good many provisions on the books. including the leasing program for housing for lowincome families. the socalled 221 (d) 3 program. the program which i have suggested for guaranteeing an interest rate on loans for the rehabilitation of housing and guaranteeing bonds issued for the purpose. which will inevitably be repayed. our experience with that has been excellent. in short. the leaders of the urban coalition have shown us the way. and if the president will . the congress must. pick up the challenge and react with courage and imagination. i call for the formation of a congressional coalition in response to the urban coalitions recommendations and principles. and for which i shall support needed legislation and needed appropriations. i hope the country will  be blinded to the realities by the seeming enthusiasm in the congress for antirlot measures. and that the country will  be too dismayedbecause i think it is going to be reversedby the derisive treatment in our sister body of the socalled rat control bill. my feeling isand i say this advisedlythat it is the mood of the congress and the mood of the country. as i read it.  to punish the ghettos and slums for the riots which have erupted in some areas. but to do our utmost to repair the basic causes which have bred these riots and disorder. i do  condone them. and join in measures to put them down. but this has hing to do with the governance which requires that justice be done. so i see a mood here to do justice. and  to punish the ghettos and the slums themselves for the excesses of the few. deplorable as that is. i have seen this attitude. i am a member of the appropriations committee. and i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. which is marking up the poverty bill. i have been very active in the housing field. i see an attitude--certainly in this bodyto be responsive to the situation. what is lacking is imagination and dedication on the part of the administration to find ways in which this job can be done without emous expenditures in addition to those we are already undertaking. although additional expenditures will be required and are warranted by the situation. which are equal to the lofty words uttered in the name of this cause. i think it is well kn that in the civil rights struggle in the congress. we have always had a bipartisan coalition fighting that struggle. and. on the whole. with considerable success. i think the time  has come for a congressional coalition to match the urban coalition which was signalized in its formation yesterday. in order to bring about a congressional response which will be apportioned and adequate to the degree of this crisis. i deeply feel the american people want that. i feel i am right that that is the attitude in the country. though in many quarters there is deep resentment and a backlash. socalled. i think it is the deep feeling that essentially this is the result of the smoldering grievances.  only of lack of jobs. inadequate housing. and deficient educational opportunity. but also the denial of human dignity. which is equally important in this area. responsiveness to these basic causes is required as the exercise of the responsibility of government in a great crisis. i hope that this e will be sounded in response to the action taken by the urban coalition yesterday. which i admire. endorse. and approve. and which. as one senator. i will do my utmost to implement. i ask unanimous consent that news reports bearing on this subject may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks at this time
. i had a great deal to do with the amendment which has been discussed. the substance of which is contained in the housing bill. i do  k whether i proposed it. i had in mind offering such a proposal to this bill. but when i heard the senator from indiana was going to do it. i was glad to defer to him. apparently the managers of the bill feel it raises considerable procedural and 4administrative difficulties. because i am so much with him in this matter. may i suggest to the senator from indiana that he forego his effort here considering that we will be having hearings on manpower training and the manpower bill in due course in the committee on labor and public welfare and that this subject ties in to various aspects of the poverty program. the senator from indiana really is  jeopardizing anything. because he will have adequate opportunity to look at the context of the other bills which can also properly apply to this measure insofar as they relate to manpower and work problems. we can benefit by studying it from the point of view of how it is working out in the housing field. i would like very much to help the senator in any way he wishes me to. at that time we can work it out so that the proposal may appear in aher bill which would effect the end objective in which i so much join with the senator from indiana. so i do  think the senator from indiana is losing anything if the proposal is  locked into the bill.
