. the celebration here of panamerican day reminds us that this is one of the most seasoned of the worlds regional organizations. the organization of american states. an organization for the mutual defense of our whole continent. and an organization for the development of its cultural and ecoic possibilities. the organization of american states is distinguished by an equality of responsibility. every one of the 21 american republics. regardless of size and ecoic or political power. having an equal voice with every one of the other american republics and that. i think. is perhaps its most signal achievement. this has  only been true in words but it has also been true in the engagements undertaken by these powers among themselves. we find every day that the progress of democracy in this whole area of the world in the western hemisphere essentially depends upon this unity among the american states. right  there are many people in the united states and the other american republics who are concerned about what is going on in one of those countries with regard to freedom of the press. i have a deep feeling. and i think it should be voiced here today. that by the concerted influence which the people of every one of these countries has upon the others due to the practice in the joint efforts of democracy which they have had. the problems in that particular country. i am confident. will be solved and without the violent upheavals or the other difficulties which have characterized similar problems in other places. i am confident they will be solved cooperatively in the western hemisphere. and they will be solved peacefully by the spontaneous expression of the peoples of the americas. we must remember at this time. too. that the ecoic standard of living of most of the people in the other american republics is considerably lower than ours and i think this is the day fipon which we should take stock of that fact and dedicate ourselves to doing everything we can to raise standards of living in the americas by way of ecoic cooperation. by way of ecoic arrangements which we have engaged in in the past and  in connection with the obtaining of strategic materials from so many of the other american republics and by way of technical cooperation under the exchange programs. technical cooperation in the americas has been going on for a long time. even before it was called point 4. we have been functioning under it in the fields of health. education. road building. sanitation. and other projects in a number of the other american republics. so successful has been this programkn in the americas as "servicios"that though it started with the united states contributing about twothirds of the cost and each of the other countries concerned about onethird. because of the success of these technical activities the proportions are  reversed. the other countries contributing twothirds while we only contribute onethird. the value of the work of the servicios is rising while the cost to the united states is constantly falling. we have also very great opportunities in the way of the interchange of peoples and ideas between the other american republics and the united states. particularly is this opportunity in fields of technical. industrial. and cultural training bringing people from the other american countries to us and sending our people to them to learn more about arts. letters. government. and production processes. both in agriculture and in industry. the resources of the western hemisphere. potentially are emous. full. and ample for all our peoples. the organization of the american states represents the most auspicious possible effort to develop fully  only our ecoic resources but themeans for advancing magnificently our human resources and our cultural and spiritual resources as well.
