i thank the distinguished senator from virginia for his question. i am saying this is a good bill for everybody. this is a good bill for everybody. it is the electronic broadcast media that says. however. it is a bad bill for them. it is labor that says it is a bad bill for them if they are included. if they are included. that is their opinion. in my opinion. it is a good bill for everybody as long as everybody is included. the inadequacies of the bill insofar as it affects each one of these interests. that is what they are claiming. and what i say is that it is good for everybody in its purest form and there is reason for exemption whatsoever.
i would suggest that the power of the political machine. or its day of power. has gone. i think this is one of the factors. if the senator will permit me to make a statement when i should be asking a question. we have so changed our political life in .the past couple of decades. through the universal use of the radio and television. that the breakdown of the state political machine. it seems to me. is the most unique phee of modern political life. i k that is true in new jersey. it used to be. that a man like "boss" hague could press a button and turn out 100.000 majority in jersey city. that can be done any more.  do i k of any other place in which that power exists today. so. if that is the undue pressure from which the senator seeks to protect our political system. i suggest that the need for it has substantially gone. i have heard other pressure groups mentioned. as the senator says. implication of evil is suggested by the use of the term "pressure group." there are many pressure groups. there are religious groups. ecoic groups. labor groups. and so forth. they have all been included. these are  the kinds of .groups i have referred to as pressure groups. against whose undue influence this protection should be raised. i would suggest. on that question. that pressure groups are an essential fact in american life. indeed. i think. of life in any society. that they are  more active in big cities than they are in rural communities. and that group ought to be iged insofar as its legitimate interest is concerned whether it be a religious group or any other kind of group. party will be unwise egh or wrong egh to ige. legitimate demands in any place. because a couple of million persons throughout the country could still determine the result of a presidential election. there is way that we as members of a political system can take away from ourselves the need to hear such groups. to resist them when their demands are unwarranted. or elimnate the difficulty of having at least to make the decisions which their importuning requires us to make. i urge this so strongly because i want to develop to the utmost the senators argument in behalf of this point. and to clarify to the utmost the issue which i think has the most appeal. or at least is one of the several issues which have so much appeal. to persons who believe something should be done along the line which the senator from south dakota suggests.
it is  an actual problem. but i agree that in view of the possibilities. it is a question with which it is desirable to deal. the fact that it is  dealt with in the bill does  constitute such an imperfection in this particular provision as to warrant discarding it. because the provision could be amended on the floor of the senate. if we felt strongly egh about it.  as a reason for striking down the whole of title vi. that is the point i am making. we have covered "the mans land" provision. the building and construction industry. and voting by ecoic strikers. there are three other matters. there is the question of supervisors. which is practically unaffected. except for a group of people in the telephone business who were unfairly placed in the supervisors category. directly responsible to management. the bill started by transferring a considerable number of superivsors from the management category into the labor category. but that provision was abandoned in committee. which i think is a change very much for the better.
there are also representatives of labor and educational institutions on the committee. there is joseph beirne. president of the communications workers of america. and representatives of the socalled private organizations. . i ask unanimous consent that the statement on this subject in the report of the foreign affairs committee of the house of representatives on this bill be printed in the record.
. i think it would be sadder if the other delegates had to listen to what they have to say without our being there to refute it. i think if mr. neilan is up to his usual performance. he can answer the charges very eloquently as well as the labor delegates and the public delegates who are there. i would much rather be there and answer the charges than to let them go by default because we had pulled out. that is my reason for taking this action. we have to face up to this thing as our delegates do every day in the united nations. we had some extraordinarily gifted answers when henry cabot lodge was there. without meaning disrespect to mr. yost. who is there . i remember that henry cabot lodge made monkeys of the communist delegates. he made them look foolish. he answered them off the cuff in a most excellent manner. i do  think we should have any fear of these accusations. we would get them anyway. but instead of having them go over worldwide radio and press releases. we would be there to answer them.
