 who passed away last year. by dedicating the howard r. swearer center for public service on the universitys campus. i was invited to participate in the dedication ceremonies. unfortunately. the senate continued its debate on the budget resolution into the late aftern. and i was unable to attend. i would like to take a moment  to deliver the remarks i prepared for that evening. when i was invited to speak. i began to think about the principles upon which the brown was founded. the original incentive was the desire to perpetuate an educated ministry. but the broader purpose was declared in the charter of 1764 as. " * $ preserving in the community a succession of men. duly qualified for discharging the offices of life with usefulness and reputation." what makes a person duly qualified. of course. there are tangible qualificationsthe classes one takes. the degree one receives. and the academic hos one may achieve. beyond that. though. are the intangiblesrespect for oneself and others. and a sense of civic responsibility causing one to reach out to the community and to assist those who may be less fortunate. howard swearer personified these qualities. and was a role model as a public servant. his career included working with the first peace corps group that went to africa and south america. a year as an american political science association congressional fellow. and a number of community and public advocacy organizations in rhode island. during his presidency at brown. howard worked to promote a greater understanding between people of different cultures and backgrounds. he expanded browns international studies and student exchange programs. an effort reflecting howards academic specialty in the politics of the soviet union. howard also was deeply devoted to diversifying the universitys student body. howard believed that an undergraduate education should include learning the practice of citizenship through personal efforts to improve the lives of others. and by establishing the center for public service in 1987 and forming the campus compact. howard helped renew an ethic of public service in students at brown and at universities across the country. at one time. public servants were held in high regard by their fellow citizens. unfortunately. that does  seem to be the case today. the young people involved with the swearer center and the recipients of the swearer scholarships. by their example of excellence and their commitment to serving their communities. are just what is needed to bring about a renewal of trust and confidence in public figures. i do hope. and i believe it was also howards dream. that many of them will consider running for public office within our city. state. or federal government. that certainly would be a splendid way to ho howard and his efforts to perpetuate the invaluable traditions of volunteerism and community service. those who come through the center will. i am confident. proceed to discharge their. "offices of life with usefulness and reputation." *
 from 1964 to 1965. as a member of the associations executive committee for several years. acree lectured on law enforcement at brookings institute seminars and at major universities. inating him for the 1972 rockefeller award. connally wrote: one of the finest attributes mr. acree possesses is his kledge of and dedication to the cause of law enforcement throughout the entire government and his willingness to share his expertise. a native of the federal city. acree attended eastern high school in washington. d.c.. and the university of minnesota. he is a member of the american legion and was active in the boy scouts of america. acrees career hos also include: the treasury departments exceptional service award. the leadership award of the association of federal investigators. and the national civil service league award as one of the governments 10 outstanding career executives. (this concludes additional statements submitted.)
. the discriminatory impact of these regulations falls primarily on bright. young college graduates. too many are being shut out of any possible future with the federal government because of the present regulation. instead of being encouraged to lend their talents and their resources. they are blocked from the outset.  only is this frustrating for them. but we are denying the nation the use of the emous reservoir of talent and intelligence these people possess. in sum. i believe that the civil service apportionment regulations are discriminatory and counterproductive. and. therefore. i urge that they be repealed. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my legislation be printed at this point in the record.
. i was delighted to learn that our good friend and colleague. tom kuchel. our assistant miity leader. has annced in california that he will be a candidiate for reelection. senator kuchel is that enviable member of the senate. a man who obviously enjoys his work and is exceedingly good at it. his accomplishments for his state and for his nation are many. the significant thing to me is  only that he has. succeeded so well. but that he has done it without losing any of his legion of friends in this chamber. tom kuchel is one of our principal leaders on this side of the aisle. but his friends overflow this barrier. he has the facility for upholding our party effectively. but doing so without rancor. in his quarter century in public life. tom kuchel has demonstrated how much a young man interested in the public service can do. he has risen steadily up the ladder of public office. building solidly. using experience to assist him in carrying out new and broader responsibilities. in the senate his colleagues have demonstrated their recognition of his ability and service by according him everincreasing responsibility and the people of california. in my opinion. are fortunate to have his services available for aher term. it will be a pleasure to have tom kuchel here for the next 6 years. and. i hope. even longer. it is  for naught that senator kuchel has become our deputy leader on the republican side. it is because he has earned the place by his character. his quality and his skill. i. like the senator from new jersey. feel that the people of california will indeed be very well served and will have made a deep contribution to the nation if they send him back to us in the senate.
ial election campaign fund is an act of responsible citizenship. this is a painless way to direct money be spent and. perhaps. it could mark the beginning of the end of one of the most disturbing truths in american politics. eighth grade government texts teach that men with wealth are much more likely to be elected to high offices than men and women of modest means. the eighth grade texts may  go into it. but the fact is that it is difficult for people without wealth to run for high public office. the need for funds has. i believe. been a most corrupting influence. i see the dollar checkoff as a benchmark in american politics if the american people become more aware of it. in my own state of new jersey this year about 20 percent of the taxpayers are earmarking $1 for public financing. which is greater than the national average of about 14 percent. senator humphrey and i spoke to this point before in urging that the federal government include public service ices about the checkoff system with the 1973 w2 forms. i still hope that we may see the executive branch recognize the potential ability it has. as one of the largest employers. of ifying hundreds of thousands of americans about the dollar checkoff. i believe both the congress and the executive branch must make use of every possible opportunity if last years record is to be improved.
as to other civil rights items. i suggested that we againas in 1959fix a date. so far as we are able to do so. at which they may be considered in the new congress. i point out we did exactly that in 1959. and we went into extended debate on civil rights legislation on february 15. 1960. the charge of polities has been leveled at those of us who seek some civil rights action at this session on the ground that it would block consideration of the other needed legislation i have specified but i point out also that the theory that they will be blocked by any civil rights bill only bears out the argument that we are wavering here under the threat of filibuster. expressed or implied. and that. withstanding the assurances of january 1959 of the majority leader. it is rule xxii which remains the real roadblock to civil rights legislation. and what we are seeingand i say this advisedly. and i hope it will be answeredis. in effect. a confession by the majority. withstanding its topheavy number. that it can vote cloture under the existing rule xxii. i would rather be accused of politics than of political cynicism. because i would  even try to do in civil rights what i sincerely believe is required by the national interest. the republican platform in its civil rights plank pledges "legislation to provide that the completion of six primary grades in a stateaccredited school is conclusive evidence of literacy for voting purposes." section 4 of my bill would carry out that pledge. the evidence that voting registrars have misused the literacy requirement to keep negroes from voting in the south is abundant. only recently. the u.s. supreme court handed down a decision. in the case of united states against raines. which revealed the ridiculous extremes to which discriminatory voting practices can be carried. in finding for the plaintiff. its order should lead to the restoration on the voting rolls in an alabama community of the names of several negro teachers in alabama schools. who graduated from alabama colleges. these individuals had been declared unqualified to vote on the grounds that they could  meet the local literacy test. in discussing this section of my bill. i would like to point out that its enactment would reduce the voting requirements in my own state of new york. where the completion of eight grades of schooling is a substitute for the literacy test. in other words. because i believe that the overall national interest would be served by such a provisionalthough it has a direct bearing on new york statei shall do my utmost to seek its enactment. along with the other provisions in the bill. in 1950. the u.s. census reports that. out of nearly 88 million in the u.s. population over 25 years of age. an estimated 80 percent had finished 6 or more years of schooling. in 16 southern states. 61 percent. or nearly 16 million people. aged 25 and over. could meet the literacy requirement for voting as outlined in this bill. according to 1950 census figures. yet we all k that voting in southern states is down to 20 percent or 25 percent of the population. i should also like to emphasize that the provision i am submitting giving the attorney general authority to start civil injunction suits is limited in the sense that it is directed to representative school desegregation cases. i have in the past. and will in the future. press for giving the attorney general authority to bring suits or intervene in a case being brought by individuals charging denial of any constitutionally guaranteed right. however. this more limited provision is in my partys platform. and therefore should be accurately drawn in this bill to implement my partys civil rights plank. which is my purpose here. i have pressed for much broader authority than called for by the leadership conference on civil rights. but this is certainly the most common deinator in both platforms. and hence i have offered in that way. in all good faith. to carry out the platform as written. i am also introducing today. along with senator case of new jersey. the modification to rule xxii. heretofore cosponsored by senator douglas. of illis. myself. and many other democrats and republicans. to prevent the filibuster or the threat of a filibuster from blocking civil rights or other appropriate legislation. it would give authority to the majority of the senate to invoke cloture on the 16th day after filing of a cloture petition by 16 senators. and would allow 100 hours of debate thereafter. because the republican platform called for a change in rule xxii. but did  specify it in more detail. senator case of new jersey and i have  sought widespread cosponsorship for this resolution among my republican colleagues at this time. however. this issue must again be raised at the opening of the session of the new congress in 1961. which will occur a few weeks prior to the inauguration of a new administration. the revision of present rule xxii. which requires that cloture can be invoked only if twothirds of those present and voting favor itthe modification presented by the majority leader as a compromise step in january 1959is demanded . it is demanded. as i have shown. by the fact that filibuster still remains the gun pointed at the heads of senators who wish to vote for civil rights legislation. but who are equally interested in other legislation they consider vital to our nation. i emphasize again it is an admission that withstanding the topheavy number of the majority. with the addition of those on this side who are prepared to vote for cloture. and will. that they can or will  vote cloture which would enable us to enact even minimal civil rights legislation in this session. i conclude by stating that the platform adopted in 1960 was described by a very distinguished newspaper as being a realistic program and. indeed. somewhat to be preferred over the democratic party platform. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times editorial of july 28. 1960. on that subject may be made a part of my remarks.
i am very grateful to my colleague. so that the record will be clear. the amendment proposes that the survivors. between the ages of 18 and 21. receiving benefits under the civil service retirement act. pursuing courses in college or the schools named. may continue to receive benefits while pursuing those courses. making the provision analogous to that for the survivors of veterans. i am very grateful to my colleague.
 it is . i am for that kind of program. i would define it as the degree of upgrading which would be required for that purposetaking the green thumb concept. of older personsin order to learn about flowers. shrubs. time for planting. and so forth and be much more skilled in terms of gardening than if they are older persons whom we give employment to rake leaves. and so forth. the senator mentions the care of younger people. that is a technique. they have to k something about it. they have to have some training. some acquaintance with the principles involved and some actual experience in doing it. i think the examples given by the senator would include related training. the committee bill calls for related training. that is why i point out that we can fudge away this difference between us on these grounds. there is a fundamental question involved with the senate. does the senator want to authorize essentiallyand i use the word authorize in its strict legal sense250.000 public service jobs. then. a good secretary. as contrasted with a poor secretary. could do all of the things possible within administrative discretion. availability of appropriations. the contracts he makes. and so forth. however. he does  have to do that. he can treat it as a straight job program for 250.000 jobs. the way we have written it in the bill permits him to do it.
 i think the agreement of the conferees was unanimous. and the extension is certainly needed. i hope the senate will agree to it. i was the principal sponsor with senator nelson. of s. 3054. the senate provision. in light of the unlikelihood of getting a new reformed manpower system in place this year. this extension is very desirable. i urge. however. that we press for reform at the earliest opportunity and i introduced yesterday s. 3421. the community manpower training and employment act to that end. the manpower development and training act of 1962 is one of our principal authorities for job training. upgrading and work experience programs for ecoically disadvantaged. unemployed and underemployed persons at the present time. benefits to hundreds of thousands of enrollees. under its authority such crucial programs as the jobs programjobs in the private sector. the neighborhood youth corps summer inschool and outofschool programs. and other activities. including programs conducted by the states. have been conducted over the years. it is important that these programs be continued while reform is considered. the conference report also includes the senate provision granting a 2year grace period to school districts which have been receiving public law 874 impact aid payments on the basis of workers employed on property which has been transferred to the postal service. this is necessary because the change of the post office department to a public corporation affects the eligibility of postal properties under the impact aid programs. thus some 700 affected school districts are provided a needed phaseout period after federal activity has ceased.
