. today i along with senators baucus. bradley. and wilson. are introducing legislation to designate april. 1990 as "national recycling month." the importance of educating the public about the real benefits. to society from recycling can be overstated. recycling is  a new phee. at least  in concept. americas early settlers recycled as a matter of survival. turning corn husks into mattresses and old clothes into quilts. many of my colleagues will remember the materials conservation efforts during world war ii. when aluminum foil was carefully saved. used automobile tires collected. and many other consumer items were recycled and put toward the war effort. in fact. most of us have recycled materials at some point in our livestypically paper. aluminum. or glass. while many of us may be familiar with recycling. there is still a need for public education campaigns to inform consumers that garbage does  disappear when the sanitation worker loads it into the truck. our society must be made aware that there are very real costs. both financial and environmental. associated with the continued proliferation of municipal garbage. in the united states today we are facing a crisis in solid waste management. the united states presently is generating about 160 million tons of solid waste per year. almost double the amount we produced in 1965. if present trends continue. the united states will generate close to 200 million tons per year by the turn of the century. towns and cities across the united states are realizing that the city dump will be forced to close its gates in a few short years. just in the last two decades the number of landfills accepting solid waste has been reduced dramaticallyfrom about 30.000 to 6.000. it is becoming virtually impossible to establish any new landfill sites because of the " in my backyard syndrome." and the rising value of land and real estate. when confronting an urgent crisis. such as the threat to human health and the environment from burgeoning mountains of trash. it is tempting to look to techogy to provide us with the easy solution. such techogical fixes. however. will  eliminate the undeniable need for significant changes in the way we conduct our daily lives.  only must we find more environmentally sound ways of handling municipal trash. but we must also greatly reduce the amount of garbage we generate in the first place. this will require a concerted effort on the part of consumers. manufacturers. and government. that is why we are introducing legislation to designate april. 1990 as national recycling month. reducing the amount of household garbage we generate poses the most difficult of public policy problems: changing human habits. the purpose of this legislation is to encourage a public attitude that can allow these needed changes to take place. people must be made aware that their actions do have a critical impact on reducing the amount of garbage entering the waste stream. it is critical that our nations childrenthe next generation of consumerslearn sound waste disposal practices so that by adulthood. those practices will have become habit. we selected april as national recycling month so as to coincide with earth day. april 22. 1990. it is our hope that during the month of april. schools will sponsor educational activities on how recycling can help us preserve the earths natural resources. my home state of rhode island. for example. was the first state to pass a mandatory recycling law. presently. over 65 percent of the cities and towns in rhode island separate recyclables such as glass. paper. aluminum and plastics for curbside collection. by october of this year. the entire state will participate in this recycling program. recycling also creates employment. according to one recent study 10.000 tons of material spawns 36 jobs compared to 6 for landfilling the same amount. some communities have formed working partnerships with workshops for the disabled. developed and administered job training partnerships. or otherwise found work for unemployed labor in recycling programs. in my own state. the rhode island department of environmental management estimates that 300 jobs have been created by recycling. the exciting feature of the battle against solid waste is that it can be won. other nations are doing far better than we are. drastic solutions are required.  are big sacrifices sought. with relatively small changes in habits. educational initiatives. and reasonable laws we can overcome the crisis we  face. i urge my colleagues to help us move closer toward this goal by joining us in designating april. 1990 as national recycling month. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the joint resolution be printed in the record.
. today i along with senators liema. warner. jfops. durenmerger and others are introducing legislation to designate april 15. 1991 as national recycling day. the importance of educating the public about the real benefits to society from recycling can be overstated. recycling is  a new phee. at least  in concept. americas early settlers recycled as a matter of survival. turning corn husks mattresses and old clothes into quilts. many of my colleagues will remember the materials conservation efforts during world war ii. when aluminum foil was carefully saved. used automobile tires collected. and many other consumer items were recycled and puttoward the war effort. in fact. most of us have recycled materials at some point in our livestypically paper. aluminum. or glass. while many of us may be familiar with recycling. there is still a need for public education campaigns to inform consumers that garbage does  disappear when the sanitation worker loads it into the truck. our society must be made aware that there are very real costs. both financial and environmental. associated with the continued proliferation of municipal garbage. in the united states today we are facing a crisis in solid waste management. the united states presently is generating about 160 million tons of solid waste per year. almost double the amount we produced in 1965. if present trends continue. the united states will generate close to 200 million tons per year by the turn of the century. towns and cities across the united states are realizing that the city dump will be forced to close its gates in a few short years. just in the last two decades the number of landfills accepting solid waste has been reduced dramaticallyfrom about 30.000 to 6.000. it is becoming virtually impossible to establish any new landfill sites because of the " in my backyard syndrome." and the rising value of land and real estate. when confronting an urgent crisis. such as the threat to human health and the environment from burgeoning mountains of trash. it is tempting to look to techogy to provide us with the easy solution. such techogical fixes. however. will  eliminate the undeniable need for significant changes in the way we conduct our daily lives.  only must we find more environmentally sound ways of handling municipal trash. but we must also greatly reduce the amount of garbage we generate in the first place. this will require a concerted effort on the part of consumers. manufacturers. and government. that is why we are introducing legislation to designate april 15. 1991 as national recycling day. reducing the amount of household garbage we generate poses the most difficult of public policy problems: changing human habits. the purpose of this legislation is to encourage a public attitude that can allow these needed changes to take place. people must be made aware that their actions do have a critical impact on reducing the amount of garbage entering the waste stream. my home state of rhode island. for example. was the first state to pass a mandatory recycling law. cities and towns in rhode island separate recyclables such as glass. paper. aluminum and plastics for curbside collection. recycling also creates employment. according to one recent study 10.000 tons of material spawns 36 jobs compared to six for landfilling the same amount. some communities have formed working partnerships with workshops for the disabled. developed and administered job training partnerships. or otherwise found work for unemployed labor in recycling programs. in my own state. the rhode island department of environmental management estimates that 300 jobs have been created by recycling. the exciting feature of the battle against solid waste is that it can be won. other nations are doing far better than we are. drastic solutions are required.  are big sacrifices sought. with relatively small changes in habits. educational initiatives. and reasonable laws we can overcome the crisis we  face. i urge my colleagues to help us move closer toward this goal by joining us in designating april 15. 1991. as national recycling day.*
