. that this bill will remain in effect only until the adminstrator of the environmental protection agency issues a final decision regarding an environmentally safe release rate of this chemical into the marine environment. in the interim. this bill will sharply limit the amount of this toxic chemical effecting aquatic organisms. we can afford to wait months. or even years. to find that we have contaminated precious marine resources. especially when those resources can become part of the human food chain. in discussing tbt. two observations come immediately to mind. on the one hand. it is without a doubt the most effective antifouling compound yet developed. and it can be matched for preventing the attachment of barnacles. algae. and other marine organisms that hasten the decay of wood and cause drag on boats. this explains its popularity with the navy and many recreational boaters. on the other hand. there is growing evidence tha( tbt is extremely toxic. and is affecting "target" marine and freshwater organisms rather than just organisms that are trying to grow on boat hulls. toxic effects occur to some marine organisms at exposures of less than 100 parts per trillion. this is equivalent. to 1 drop of water in 100.000 tanker trucks of liquid. and effects on reproduction and development are thought to occur at much lower levels. since the kn toxic effects are on marine organisms and  humans. you might ask why we should be so concerned about this chemical. the answer is because tbt is already being detected in the human food chain. the national marine fisheries service recently published findings providing evidence of tbt at alarmingly high levels in chik salmon which had made its way to the marketlplace. common cooking practices do  destroy or remove tbts from fish. aside from the potential effects on human healthand very little is kn about what effects tbt will have on humansthere are serious implications for marine habitats from the continued use of tbt. in great britain and france. tbt is  regulated. because it has caused serious problems in oyster fisheries.  only did the oyster cultures decline in certain areas with high tbt levels. but scientist also iced unusual abmalities in the shell formation of adult oysters. the symptoms these oysters exhibited are associated only with chronic exposure to tbt. narragansett bay in my home state of rhode island. is one of the most magnificent by areas in the country. this precious national resource supports the entire spectrum of marine life. in october 1985 the u.s. navy tested samples of water taken at the castle 1illl coast guard station. and found tbt levels of 130 parts per trillion. higher than that necessary to cause toxic effects on some marine organisms. other samples taken by the navy turned up 36 parts per trillion at a nearby marina. and 9 parts per trillion at a yacht club. while far from conclusive. this sampling. and other more extensive data on chesapeake bay. suggest that it is time to find out conclusively what the long- and shortterm effects of using tbt will be on our marine evnvironment. we can afford to wait until species of fish begin to disappear before we get definitive answers. as a former secretary of the navy. i can fully appreciate the cost. and effort required to defoul and paint large vessels. the cost. of servicing a large naval aircraft carrier or a supertanker can easily run into the millions of dollars. the use of tbt instead of the more conventional copperbased paints greatly reduces the frequency of this servicing. yet. until we understand tlie environmental consequences of the widespread tse of tbt. i can all)rove of its indiscriminant use. the [)iii we are introducing today is a reasoned. interim approach that will quickly redete the amount of tbt ftn the aqualic environment. i wotuld emphasize that the epa needs to proceed with all speed to evaluate the longterm effects of this chemical. we must k whether we are poisoning our oceans and lakes. or if indeed a safe level of use for tbt or a reasonable alternative exists. i urge my colleagues to join me in giving approval to this urgently needed legislation.
. i thank my colleagues from th carolina and i want to say this to them. we have  had an opportunity to have a hearing on this. we will rapidly. i do  want to say tomorrow or the day after. but all i can say is we will get to it as rapidly as we can. we will listen to the testimony. we will have the folks from the army up. we will have folks from the fish and wildlifei presume they are the people who are dealing with thisand possibly the epa people. we will do the best we can to resolve this. obviously. if we can resolve it i will so inform the senators from th carolina and they will have opportunities to bring this up again. but it will be our earnest attempt to get this thing settled in a fashion that recognizes the problems that have been set forth by both the distinguished senators. so that is my commitment to attend to it very soon. i hope they will give me a little time to get to this because we have to get witnesses and. again. i can say it is going to be tomorrow. i can say it is going to be next week. but i can just say we will get right to it.
subsequently said: . today. april 15. marks african independence day. at the first conference of african independent states in accra last year. a call was issued to the world to observe april 15 of each year as africa freedom day until all africa is free from colonial rule. six african states have achieved national independence since the end of world war ii. they are as follows: ghana. british colony gold coast and the trusteeship territory togoland. 1957. guinea. french territory in west africa. 1958. libya. under british and french military administration since 1942. 1951. morocco. former french and spanish protectorates. 1956. sudan. angloegyptian condominium. 1956. tunisia. french protectorate. 1956. four other african countries are scheduled to attain independence next year. these are: cameroons. french territory in french equatorial africa. togoland. french territory under africa trusteeship. somalia. italian trusteeship since 1950. and nigeria. british colony and protectorate. federation of nigeria. in addition. the inhabitants of british cameroons also will have the option. after a plebiscite scheduled to be held between ember 1958 and april 30. 1960. of declaring their independence or joining any of the adjoining wouldbe independent states in africa. the peoples of africa naturally look to the united states for inspiration and as a model in their search toward independence and their efforts to retain their new statehood. a tenth of our american citizens trace their origin to negro africa. especially from those areas on the west coast of that continent. american negroes have recognized this tie of blood and already there are established societies in this country. such as the international friends of ghana. whose object it is to help the nascent states in africa to grow in the highest traditions of freedom and to prosper. . the soviets have  been unmindful of the opportunities for their own ends in the newly independent states and most recently the press carried reports of growing communist influence in guinea. i believe. however. that the peoples of africa value their freedom too highly to be taken in by a new communist imperialism. though the soviets will continue to fish in the troubled waters where the new states of africa are seeking to find their way. more and more americans are beginning to realize the importance of africa in the world sphere. it is longer the dark continent of the travelogs. but truly a vast area of 11.7 million square miles. containing invaluable natural resources. and serving as a home of some 220 million people. i have every hope that the peoples of africa will continue to be oriented toward the free world. their ties of blood and culture are strong with our country despite the distance and the disparity of our respective natural development.
