. 5 years ago. this senator engaged in his first debate in the u.s. senatejoining senators proxmire and taft in opposition to the lockheed loan guarantee. . in 1976. it becomes clearer with each passing day the lockheed aircraft corp. is undeserving of the assistance of the citizens of this nation. be it in the form of loans to underwrite the lockheed tristars or moneys to finance defense contracts. this dismal chapter in the history of american business has besmirched the governments of nations all over the world. in japan. 18 top government and business leaders have been indicted. among those charged with accepting his share of the $12.6 million is the former prime minister. kakuei tanaka. who stands accused of having accepted a $1.6 million bribe to arrange the purchase ofguess whatthe lockheed tristar passenger jet. in italy. a parliamentary commission is investigating evidence developed by the subcommittee on multinational corporations of the committee on foreign relations that a former prime minister was involved in lockheed payoffs to influence the sale of c130 cargo planes. in the netherlands. the monarchy itself has been jeopardized by revelations that the prince consort. to quote from the report of the dutch commission. "showed himself open to dishoable requests and offers." in turkey. it is alleged that $876.000 was provided for "gifts" to third parties to promote lockheed sales. investigations by the west german government are proceeding. in short. it would be difficult for communists and fascists to develop a strategy better suited to undermining international confidence in the integrity of this nations business community. and ultimately. the nation itself. when any american enterprise deals in the gutter of the international marketplace. our nation is cheapened. when the ethics of american business turn sour each of us is shamed and when there are those who suggest or explain bribery as "business as usual." they in effect advocate we clasp the dagger of our national suicide. when we treat neighbors in a way we would  tolerate in our own system of laws. we make it easier to practice similar abuses at home. we rightfully lose our role as leader of the free world. as the 20th century world becomes more and more a single community. it is  possible to practice a doublestandard of government. in the 20th century. you can have two constitutions: one for us. and one for everybody else. you can have two systems of law: one for domestic use and one for export. unfortunately. lockheed bribery goes part and parcel with the ethical slovenliness into which this nation has been drifting for all too long. two hundred years ago. we as americans pledged our lives. our fortunes. and our sacred ho to the proposition that all men just americansare created equal. that all governments just ours--derive their just powers from the consent of the governedthat justice was to be equal for all. yet. the revelations of the past few years. in all areas of our endeavorbe it politics. be it business. be it in our communities. be it in any other area of endeavor in this country--show a leadership structure in this country that is dedicated to selfsurvival and personal profit rather than to those who have yet to grasp in reality any part of the american dream. it is time to reaffirm to ourselves and to the world that our constitution is  just some 18th century american document. but an expression in law of principles for all people for all time. and we can start by refusing to finance any foreign american enterprise. private or governmental. which has as part of its act the repudiation of what we teach our children and each other at home. what happened to that young america that had strength far beyond its numbers or resources because it was engaged in living the highest purposes of god and man. is it ready to substitute cunning for strength. expediency for growth. payoffs for quality. i do  think so. we are an idealistic. compassionate. gutsy people. if the leaders of america want to turn tail on life and run. its people do . for every lockheed there are millions of americans who build rather than bribe. i think those people  the boardroom in burbank is where it is at for a nation that is 200 years young.
