. the history of the ukrainians is the sad story of a large group of gifted. industrious and brave people who have  been allowed to enjoy the fruits of their labor during most of modern times. the ironic twist of history and the cruel realities of geography have kept the ukrainian people from being masters of their fate in their homeland for three centuries. except for the 2year period of 191820. national political independence has been denied to them. during those centuries they have endured all sorts of hardships. privation. and misery. and have suffered much. yet they have maintained their national ideals. their desire for freedom and independence. they had longed for an opportunity to regain their freedom. and they had that opportunity soon after the overthrow of the czarist regime in russia. on january 22. 1918. they achieved their independence. the proclamation of ukrainian freedom and the founding of the ukrainian republic symbolized the realization of a centuries old dream. its supreme significance was  and is  lost on the libertyloving and libertyseeking ukrainians. and the annual celebration of that day as their national holiday testifies to that fact. it is true that the ukrainian republic founded 45 years ago has long ceased to exist. but the idea revived by that supreme act lives in the minds and hearts of all ukrainians in and out of their beloved and historic homeland. of course. those living in the ukraine. under the tyrannical regime imposed upon them by the kremlin. are  allowed and do  dare to celebrate their independence day. but we gladly do this in unison with all americans of ukrainian descent. thus echoing the genuine patriotic sentiments of the ukrainian people sealed off from the free world behind the iron curtain.
 truman in 1950. both circumstances were inherently different from those we face today. one of the most significant features of this concurrent resolution is that it would express the interest of congress in action taken only by the executive branch that is every bit as important to our ecoic wellbeing as taxing and spending policies reserved to the congress. hopefully. its passage will lead to the revocation of the executive order of january 1. 1968 imposing capital investment controls abroad. foreign investment has always been a positive factor in our balanceofpayments equation. between 1950 and 1966. a foreign investment of $39 billion returned. in the form of income. dividends and the like. $58 billion. curbs in investment abroad will  only deprive the united states of these direct returns. they will also reduce our exports. the capital goods and raw material exports needed to support the inputs of capital abroad must inevitably decline. this factor creates a particular hardship to developing countries whose own infant ecoies can hope to substitute for these capitalsupporting exports. in short. . the existing controls will harm our nations ecoy in both the short and long run. it is impossible to state the extent of the future income loss in dividends and royalties from foreign investment. in a world where ecoies. developed and developing. are growing swiftly. it is shortsighted indeed to prevent u.s. investors from participating in that growth. the concurrent resolution we offer today is wholly consistent with the pledge of the republican platform adopted in miami beach last month to end "selfdefeating restraints on overseas investments." i hope that even in the closing weeks of this congress. the house can address itself to this important fact of our ecoic life.
. i have today introduced legislation to allow federal employees time off for the observance of religious holidays that fall on days that are  already recognized as legal holidays. presently. federal government employees must be available for work on any day of the year. except. of course. on those days recognized as legal holidays. although some religious holidays. such as christmas. are legal holidays as well. the holy days of other religions are  so recognized. this situation places an unfair burden on the members of some faiths who wish to follow the tenets of their religion while employed by the federal government. orthodox jews. for example. are obliged to refrain from work between sundown friday and sundown saturday. consequently. they mally charge off against their annual leave. or leave without pay. the time taken off for religious observances. there are persons with other religious backgrounds. such as seventhday adventists. that are faced with similar restrictions against working on saturdays. often. members of some faiths decide against government service primarily because of this inequity in federal employment practices. i believe the solution to this problem is a relatively simple one at expense to the public. the legislation that i have introduced today will allow a federal employee. when he takes time off to comply with religious obligations imposed by his religion. to make up for lost time through an arrangement with the agency or department by which he is employed. the federal employee who is jewish may then observe rosh hashana. the jewish new year. which begins this wednesday. and yom kippur. the day of atonement. in exchange for working on a legal holiday or after hours. to make up for this time taken off to observe a religious holiday. this flexibility of working hours is particularly important in those areas of federal employment that operate on a 7day week basis. as for example does the post office department. my bill provides for this flexibility. but only "to the extent compatible with the exigencies of the public business and the performance of essential services." of the employees agency or department. however. to prevent any indiscriminate rejection of requests for time off. this legislation requires that any denials shall be predicated on a written answer of the authority concerned. stating the reasons for the denial. guidelines adopted on july 10. 1967. by the equal employment opportunity commission state: (b) the commission believes that the duty  to discriminate on religious grounds. required by section 703 (a) (1) of the civil ptghts act of 1964. includes an obligation on the part of the employer to make reasonable accommodation to the religious needs of employees and prospective employees where such an accommodation can be made without undue hardship on the conduct of the employers business. such undue hardship. for example. may exist where the employees needed work can be performed by aher employee of substantially similar qualifications during the period of absence of the sabbath observer. (c) because of the particularly sensitive nature of discharging or refusing to hire an employee or applicant on account of his religious beliefs. the employer has the burden of proving that an undue hardship renders the required accommodation to the religious needs of the employee unreasonable. in the light of the guideline recently adopted by the equal employment opportunity commission stating that the employer has an obligation to make reasonable accommodation to the religious beliefs and needs of its employees. the federal government can hardly do less for its employees than it asks for employees of private industry. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation and thus allow the federal government to lead with action. as well as words. the private business community in the establishment of fair employment practices.
the senator from new york does  believe that it is the purpose. intent. or. indeed. the construction. of part iii to lead the federal government into all the fields enumerated. because it is expressly attached to a statute which has been in effect for 85 years already. and has  led into all these fields. in addition. even though coupled with the power to send troops. which has been invoked here as some dreadful apparition. the federal government has done such thing during the time the statute has been in effect. it seems to me. therefore. that if we want to discuss this subject in realistic terms. we have to confine the discussion to the purpose for which the law to which this additional power was attached was used. it was never invoked in the connections to which the senator refers. except by individuals seeking in other cases to get the benefit of the 14th amendment. but its invocation was  concerned with the attorney generals power. so if i ventured into the negative side of that subject. i would myself be expanding this statute far beyond the compass which i think it has. i point out to the senator that the united states has many other powers in respect to the wages and hours law and in respect to other federal statutes. and it does  need this law for that purpose. the united states has  invoked it for that purpose. and will  invoke it for that purpose. so i do  wish to be drawn into a discussion of what i do  think the statute covers.
. earlier this week i commented on me report of the national commission on state workmens compensation laws. dam pleased to e that the new york times today editorially endorses the need fnr federal action to implement the substantive recommendations of the commission. as the times editorial states: it will be an outrage if. at this late stage. pressure to keep hands off still frustrates action on the sound reforms the commission proposes. the editorial further suggests that ultimately workmens compensation should be "integrated" with other programs providing income maintenance for workers such as welfare. social security disability. and unemployment insurance. i do deem this to mean federalization of workmens compensation. and ultimately that may be a desirable objective. but. as the times editorial suggests. until we are ready to undertake that task. we ought promptly to get about the business of getting a floor under state workmens compensation laws. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
