i point out to my colleague precisely my position on the interest equalization tax. i believe it is  as good as the technique of the capital issues committee in the new york market. i believe. as a result of my own research and inquiries in the new york market. that a capital issues committee is entirely practical and would work to far better effect than an interest equalization tax.  that that has been said. i will  inhibit myself from voting for the interest equalization tax if it comes before the senate. if our government can show a good reason why it should be supported. i do  k of any reason why the government should  cooperate with a capital issues committee. or encourage the organization of one. the government may be able to demonstrate that. withstanding the exceptions already made to the interest equalization tax. it still remains meaningful at least in terms of a standby. so that the matter of capital flotations in this country will  run away from us even further than it hasand we are  close to the $2 billion mark. i give my views on the subject in terms of alternatives. i agree with the need for certain exemptions. we had to exempt commercial loans.. we had to exempt direct investments. we had to offer some indulgence for canada. which is our best customer in terms of the surplus of exports from us. so that we would  cut off our e to spite our face and inhibit the best market for our own exports. heavily attributable to the flotation of capital issues. the exemptions deemed necessary have resulted in making the whole program one of relatively small significance. therefore i would rather approach the problem in a different way. but if left only with the interest equalization approach. i am  saying i would  vote for it. if it demonstrated some capacity as a standby solution. as a sort of stoploss approach to capital flotation which. at present. is running at an annual rate of about $2 billion. that is an important point. i was very careful in my statement  to cut off that possibility. but to indicate that i might support it if i had hing else to support.
that is correct. but protection involves adding a self -defeating provision in aher respect. we have much to gain. since we are the biggest importer. exporter. and investor in the world. from ecoic viability and prosperity in the world. which is indispensable to us. the secretary of the treasury. through the interest equalization tax. would discourage rather than prohibit foreign flotations. markets abroad are  as available as markets in this country. there are customers in the united states ready. willing. and able to buy foreign securities. so we are trying to find our way. in the most sensitive manner. and as perceptively as we can. among the main alternative remedies. among the alternatives. i suggest that the capital issues committee would be more effective and a better remedy. considering the facts of international finance. than the interest equalization tax.
. on october 22 i made extensive remarks concerning the interest equalization tax. an administration proposal  before the house ways and means committee. a proposal with which i disagree. in the course of the same discussion. i have outlined in great detail. an alternative which i consider far more desirable and effectivea capital issues committee. this committee would be an advisory committee of banks. investment houses. and brokers around the country. it would be established only for the duration of the emergency and could be dismantled at will. this would  be the case with the interest equalization tax. which would remain in effect for several years whether needed or . and could  be abolished until repealed by lawwhich. as we k. sometimes takes a long time. the capital issues committee is a tried and true operation in major financial centers abroad. whereas the interest equalization tax is completely new and untried. such a committee would do everything .that the proposed tax would doand would do it in a much better way and in a more businesslike manner. more agreeable to the investment community of the united states and the world. it  only has widespread support among members of the financial community. but has also gained the editorial support of such outstanding newspapers as the new york times. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial from the new york times of september 1 and the washington post of october 28. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i am only a windowbox farmer who has a particular interest in this subject. on the question of the balance of payments. on which the senator and i jousted before. i agree that it is a difficult problem and that we must deal with it. the senator from missouri is an accomplished businessman. i have had experience in business. too. i feel that we can be so allfired scared. we do  want the situation to get out of hand. hence i am in accord with the voluntary program. although i am much against the equalization tax. i think we have a tendency to be so much afraid of it as to want to eliminate it entirely.
