mr. presi first of all commend the distin senator from tennessee. gore. i think. as each one of us co this body. there are certain ma concern. interest. and opp that we especially involve ours which does  mean to say eryone in the senate does : interest in the matter of orgai plants. they do. but there ha someone to take the lead. and to say right  the distin senator from tennessee has ta lead on this matter. it is a matter about which have a lot to learn. but one to deny the lives that will be sa human tragedy that can be ave so i compliment him perso am sure  only are we seein tor gore address the subject but for years to come .this something that he will strike leadership role to bring to p most effective organ transpia gram in the world. the amendment is acceptab the additional $3 million will the initiation of grants for th lishment of the initial applica organ procurement organizatio i hope the amendment is ag
. the proposed plan to build two power dams in the grand canyon of the colorado has stirred an intense national debate. news stories as well as editorials have been written in profusion. in addition. thousands of individual americans have been moved to write to their representatives in congress. my own mail box has been bulging with constituent mail on the grand canyon dams and. i might add. this stream of mail has been running overwhelmingly against the proposal. it is clear. i think. that the american people are opposed to any dams in the grand canyon and. in fact. wish this unparalleled national treasure to remain inviolate. in a recent article carried by the washington post. columnist marquis childs provided a most interesting analysis of the modernday pressures on the canyon. as well as an evenhanded summary of the pros and cons of the controversy over the proposed dams. i ask unanimous consent that mr. childs column of july 15. 1966. be printed in the record after my remarks.
i agree with what the senator from virginia has said about the new tools. we are.  faced with the question of the selection of a postmaster for that particular post office. i have deeply in mind the need for the most modern kind of approach by the leadership in the management of the post office. in order to lead it in the direction the senator from virginia has outlined. i should like to express to the senator from virginia the appreciation i have. and which i k i bespeak for my colleague and for all the rest of the people of new york. we are deeply appreciative that the senator from virginia has so clearly in mind this problem and the means of dealing with it.
they may think that we finally have gotten a lot of brains and do  have our feet fixed in concrete. that we are  playing positions but doing what is substantively correct. the matter has been debated egh to bring out all the doubt on this matter. if it is  going to make or break the salt discussions why move forward and deploy. i have one other specific question. the senator said something about leadtime items being the big disadvantage in delay of deployment. that is an important point. it goes to the time question. i ice in the committee report it is stated: (3) procurement of hardware in the amount of a total of $600.000 for long lead time components of the sprint and spartan missiles. have we a right to assume that is about the order of magnitude in respect of long leadtime items.
