. i appreciate the comments of the distinguished senator from arizona. but i must confess that i object very strenuously to the phrase that was used. "the most productive members of our society." ody is trying to discriminate against "the most productive members of our society." the fact is that their particular activityand they are so described. i might add. by the senator from nevada.  by meis discriminating against the rest of the members of society. he was the one who raised the issue. i merely use it to point up the rather few people who are going to benefit from this exception to our laws. second. the comments of the distinguished senator from arizona and the distinguished senator from vermont certainly are in the spirit of reasoned debate. and there is ample room for it on this subject. but the demagoguery and the characterization by the senator from nevada as to those who are behind this amendment should  go unanswered. so far as "diaurs and ostriches" are concernedand all the other terms that have been flipped around as to the proponents of this amendmenti point out to the senator from nevada that in the 2 years i have spent in the house and in the 6 years i have been in the senatei did  serve on the committee this yeari have been one of the legislative proponents and true architects of our space program in the united states. i do  consider myself an ostrich or a diaur when it comes to techogy. when it comes to the specific techogy of airplanes and airplane engines. probably state in the union sells more jet engines. commercial plane engines. than the state of connecticut and the united techogies corp. so. it is  a question that there are khings behind this amendment or that we are trying to impede progress. one of the great mistakes the united states is making is to back off our space program or at least have it in a status quo position. we should be moving ahead in the area of aircraft techogy. but we can do so and still be within the law. that is all i am saying here today. the argument has been made that it would  be fair to enact laws which would prevent the operation of the concorde. ody is talking about enacting any new. lws. i do  believe in that as a matter of principle. anyway. i think it is unconstitutional. what we are talking about is conforming to the laws that already have been passed. the amendment of the senator from connecticut would  eliminate techogical experimentation at all. indeed. you could continue to seek techogical improvements in the sst. the amendment simply prohibits the commercial operation of civil supersonic aircraft. so experimentation and development are  involved here. what we are talking about is engaging in commerce in a profitmaking way and doing it contrary to the laws already on the books of this country. the senator from nevada keeps referring to the fact that those who are proponents of this amendment are living in the past. i point out to the senator from nevada that. by the statements he has made on the floor of the senate. what he wants is the united states of 10 years ago. when there were standards. when there were policies. when there was fuel shortage. that is what is embodied in the comments of the distinguished senator from nevada: the fact that we can go back 10 years. as though everything is just as it was then. forget the fact that we need conservation of fuel. forget the fact that we are reducing se. forget the fact that it is important as to the quality of our air. i am  living in the past. i am living in the year 1976. when we have said that environmental questions are matters of priority. and we reflected that concern in our legislation. the comment has been made that this is more than adding one box of detergent. to the mississippi river. we have passed that point in this country. we are longer talking about adding one box of detergent to the mississippi river. we have already made the determinationand i use this in an allegorical sensethat the mississippi river is polluted and we are trying to get the pollution out. we have made the determination that the air is polluted. and it is especially so polluted in our urban areas. such as new york city and the new york metropolitan area. including connecticut and new jersey and the area of washington. d.c.. and thern virginia. the air is polluted. we made that determination long before this sst proposition came to the united states. and it was  a question of only adding one bit more. it was a question of trying to clean it up. one of the first things my dad taught me was that if you take a bucket of water and leave it out in the sun and do  do anything to it. it is going to evaporate. but if you add one or two drops every day. it is going to stay full. i can think of a better example in relation to what is being advocated here. it is just a little bit of pollution. it is like one box of detergent in the mississippi river. it is like one drop of water in the bucket. i am  interested in preserving the air as it was yesterday or a week ago or 10 days ago or 10 years ago. we want to clean it up. we are  interesting in preserving the se levels of this country. be they sampled by the distinguished senator from arizona or the distinguished senator from nevada or whoever. we are interested in lessening the se. that is what is involved in the issue here. the fact is that the admission has been made that this plane is dirtier and sieralbeit so small. those admissions have come forth. but it is said that it is only a little bit. and if we are going to have progress. that is the price we have to pay. all this amendment does is to say. "we are  going to start making exceptions to these recently passed environmental laws. we will allow you to experiment. but  in a commercial sense." so it provides both for techogy moving forward and for preserving the laws and the policies of this country when it comes to cleaning up their air. when it comes to lessening the se. those are the issues involved. in other words. to sum it all up. all this reasoning that is coming forth on the floor of the senate today would have been great 10 years ago. but for quite a while  these policies have been legislated. they are on the books. that is where the exception comes.
