. it is amazing to me how unrealistic we can get on an occasion like this in the house of representatives. my colleague. the gentleman from new york just put his finger on why we are being completely unrealistic about this resolution. if the purpose of this resolution was to set up a special committee to determine what taxexempt foundations should be denied tax - exemption. of course. the committee on ways and means would do that. if the purpose of such a new committee were to determine whether subversion is aided by charitable. philanthropic and educational organizations and foundations. of course. the committee on unamerican activities would do that. but neither of those is the purpose of this particular move. without in any way depreciating the sincerity and the good faith and the zeal of the proponent of the resolution. which we all understand. the point has been made very clearly that what is sought to be put on trial here before the proposed official committee are the social purposes which these organizations to be investigated are helping and hing else. my colleague. the gentleman from new york says it is public power this resolution is going to inhibit. the gentleman from california says it will be help for the london school of ecoics while aher gentleman says it will be public housing. that is the whole point and here is the question. do we in the congress want to put on trial before a new investigating committee the social purposes helped by charitable. philanthropic and educational foundations and thus to control them. there is talk of big government on the republican side of the aisle. under this kind of resolution we are going to have even bigger government. if you are going to test out in the congress. in this public court. whether the social purposes of foundations are good. bad or indifferent. even more than that.  in the judgment of the whole congress. but of one particular special committee by using the power of investigation to decide whether the social purposes forwarded by any particular foundation are to their liking. this kind of money is likely to be rather reluctant to be investigated. it is more likely to run from any purpose which the new committee even remotely indicates it does  like. that is what you have to decide. this is very fundamental. if you subscribe to the belief and realistically k that the only appropriate purposes whaich can be served by this resolution will be served by legislative committees  in being. and you k that this resolution will only result in the new special committee testing what these foundations do with their money in social terms. then i respectfully submit that is something that the majority of the congress does  want to get into. it leads right in the direction ultimately of government taking in more territory which these gentlemen are warning us against. i say. if we realize that what can be the only appropriate purposes of this resolution will be served by legislative committees in being. then we will vote down the resolution.
states would be required to distribute funds. in turn. to the local education agencies on the basis of the relative need of the local agencies and to achieve equality of educational opportunity between school districts within the state. money would be allotted to the states based on school attendance of children from 4 to 17 years of age. thus encouraging the enrollment of children in their early years as recommended by the presidents commission. a unique feature of the bill is the provision that a states allotment would be modified by the states "relative tax effort." the overall tax effort of the state and its communities relative to aggregate personal income within the state. as compared to other states. this recognizes that  only taxes collected for education but also taxes collected for health. welfare. housing. and other public services are key to determining a states relative effort and ability to finance education. the role of the states in financing education still has  been fully clarified by the march 21 5to4 supreme court decision in the rodriguez case. that decision does. to be sure. relieve a great deal of uncertainty that had heretofore prevailed in that it reversed a lower court decision which would have placed upon the states the responsibility for equalizing expenditures between school districts. but. in many states there is a state constitutional right to education. thus opening the possibility of cases and decisions which could lead to major changes in the financing of public education and oblige the states to assume a major portion of local education expenditures. recent state court decisions in new jersey and michigan emphasize this point. this bill also follows recommendations of the fleischmann commission on the quality. cost and financing of elementary and secondary educationfor "incentive grants to states for providing full state funding of education with concomitant equalization of interschool district perpupil expenditure disparities." in addition. a number of organizations. such as those representing the chief state school officers and the state boards of education. as well as researchers and scholars in the field of education. have recommended federal assistance to help the states assume a primary role in the financing of local education and in the equalization of educational opportunities between school districts within each state. this bill seeks to accomplish that end. i believe that it will serve as an excellent point of departure for the study of legislation to be ultimately enacted by the congress and as a focus for a practical resolution to a growing problem. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the state education finance assistance act of 1973 be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
