. that. in my opinion. is the result of pressure properly directed and is the result. in part at least. of the departments cutting off exports out of the east coast. upon our insistent urging that it do so. this morning we had an executive session. we had three gentlemen from the department of commerce with us. i am . of course. at liberty to disclose what they said at this session. but i think i will assume responsibility for disclosing what i said. as a result of what they read to us. i asked them to cut off all exports for 48 hours. all i could get from them was the remark that they would consider it. i am going back to the committee  in the hope that we will have those telegrams released by the state department so we can put them in the record this aftern. my best recollection is that. of all of the countries that have so far replied. a majority indicated that they could and would take cuts. and that it amounted to about twentyseven and onehalf millions of gallons -of heating oil. i am also going to urge the department of commerce to place that 48hour embargo on hoing any licenses until we can find out where we are in terms of these cable offers to cooperate by accepting further reductions. i could thoroughly understand this situation if it involved any question of security. but i have been assured that there is  the slightest trace of security involved. i could even understand it if some felt we should use the traditional american approach of friendly and cooperative discussion with our neighboring countries. but the time is late. the emergency is real. and surely they would understand our situation and distress if we had had the foresight to have ordered someone to tell them about it last fall. i certainly prefer the type of action which can only be understood as one between friends. canada responded immediately. . apparently. even at this late date. with considerable concern. the majority of these countries have responded splendidly. of course. we can go through the long process of legislation if we have to do so. but i want our people to understand that we have gotten through the talking stage and are  at the point where we are demanding action. we gave the department full authority. that carries full responsibility. it has  exercised that authority as it should have. it has ig ed these telegrams. most of which were read to our committee in the course of a short hour. revisions could have been undertaken within a few minutes by any competent official after the receipt of each cable. how much is irrevocably lost. only they k. it is my considered judgment that unless by 5 oclock tonight the department takes this affirmative and constructive step which i have urged upon it. and for which i assume full responsibility. the department will be derelict in its clear duty under the law. which it has sworn to enforce. in the interest of the american people and their comfort. their welfare. their health. their jobs. and perhaps even lives of some of them. i can think of more bitter reaction than the one which will be left in the minds of the people who  may k the truth. if the state department lifts the ban it has the power to place on the disclosure of this fact. that the department of commerce prefers to gamble their welfare and their safety against the very unrealistic doubts apparently some of them have regarding other countriesdoubts that i can  assure you. with deep sincerity. are  shared in many instances by equally responsible representatives of our government in those countries. as well as the responsible people in the governments of those countries. i hope each of you will join with me. if you believethis to be true. in turning the full force of our collective opinion upon the department in demanding prompt action. and i hope the people in your districts will join us in this one effort which may be the last we can make before the end of the heating season.
