. i am pleased to join with senator carper today to introduce the clean air planning act of 2002. congress needs to advance four pollutant legislation that offers the best chance for broad bipartisan support. and i believe this bill meets that test. the testimony received through hearings in the environment and public works committee over the past several years has clearly outlined the need for controlling the major emissions from power plants. sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxlde. mercury and carbon dioxide. while at the same time recognizing the added costs of these new controls. we k through experience that we will only be successful at passing legislation if we find middle ground. the relationship of fossil fuels to global warming is clear and scientifically validated. the release of the "u.s. climate action report 2002" by the administration in may tells us we need to take real actions toward solving the problem. the longer we wait. the harder this problem will be to solve. the rio convention is a perfect example of why waiting is  reasonable. in 1992. we agreed to voluntarily reduce harmful emissions to 1990 levels. it didnt happen. . in 2002 we are told that reductions to 1990 levels will stall the ecoy. if we wait much longer before taking any action. imagine how much harder it will be to achieve real reductions without harming the ecoy. i am a cqsponsor of senator jeffords bill. s. 556. and i voted for it in the environment and public works committee. however. i believe that carperchafee will ultimately enjoy broader support. our bill would achieve significant reductions in a more cost effective way than other proposals. for sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. and mercury. we will establish emission caps that are superior to reductions that can be achieved under the existing clean air act. in addition. for the first time. we will ensure that we achieve real reductions of carbon dioxide emissions. many predicted that the passage of s. 556 from the committee would create a stalemate on this important issue. i believe that the carperchafee bill offers a real opportunity to break the stalemate and begin an honest debate that will eventually lead to enactment of strong legislation. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues as we move forward to pass a bill that enjoys the broadest support and adequately addresses the serious health. environmental. and ecoic issues facing the nation. - by mr. leahy:
. i am pleased to join with senator carper today to introduce the clean air planning act of 2003. congress needs to advance fourpollutant legislation that offers the best chance for broad bipartisan support. and i believe this bill meets that test. the testimony received through hearings in the environment and public works committee over the past several years has clearly outlined the need for controlling the major emissions from power plantssulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. mercury and carbon dioxidewhile at the same time recognizing the added costs of these new controls. we k through experience that we will only be successful at passing legislation if we find middle ground. the parameters of this debate have been established. some will say this bill doesnt go far egh in some respects. others will say the legislation goes too far. especially as it pertains to the mandatory control of carbon dioxide emissions. however. the relationship of fossil fuels to global warming is clear and scientifically validated. the "u.s. climate action report 2002" released by the administration last may tells us we need to take real actions to address the problem. the longer we wait. the harder this problem will be to solve. the rio convention is a perfect example of why waiting is  reasonable. in 1992. we agreed to voluntarily reduce harmful emissions to 1990 levels. it didnt happen. . in 2003 we are told that reductions to 1990 levels will stall the ecoy. if we wait much longer before taking any action. imagine how much harder it will be to achieve real reductions without harming the ecoy. the legislation we are introducing today would achieve significant reductions in a more cost effective way than other proposals. for sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. and mercury. we will establish emissions caps that are superior to reductions that will be achieved under the existing clean air act. in addition. for the first time. we will ensure real reductions of carbon dioxide emissions are achieved. by 2013. the utility sector will be required to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to 2001 levels. this proposal will allow the united states to address carbon pollution for the first time and. when compared to a threepollutant bill. at very small incremental costs. .i believe that the carperchafee bill offers a real opportunity to break the stalemate that exists today and begin an honest debate that will eventually lead to enactment of strorfg legislation. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues as we move forward to pass a bill that enjoys the broadest support and adequately addresses the serious health. environmental. and ecoic issues facing the nation. by mr. crapo (for himself. ms.
. earlier today i voted in favor of invoking cloture on the motion to proceed to s. 2290. the fairness in asbestos injury resolution act. my vote was  an endorsement of s. 2290 as it was introduced in the senate. i recognize that concerns have been raised about specific provisions of the bill. and i would consider supporting amendments to s. 2290 if the senate has an opportunity to fully debate this legislation. however. i am very concerned about shortcomings in the current system. and support legislating a bipartisan solution that offers a fairer. more efficient process for compensating asbestos victims. for this reason. i voted for cloture on s. 2290 in an effort to move the debate forward.
. i rise today to introduce legislation reauthorizing appropriations for the water resources research act. the chairman and ranking member of the senate committee on environment and public works. senators inhofe andjeffords. respectively. as well as senators clin-
. i wish to register my opposition to the kyl amendment  1050 to h.r. 2361. the senate interior appropriations bill. the clean water state revolving fund program is essential for protecting public health. watersheds. and the natural environment by providing critical federal seed money for the maintenance and improvement of water infrastructure. despite important progress in protecting and enhancing water quality since the enactment of the clean water act in 1972. serious water pollution problems persist throughout the nation. the need for continued federal investment in the nations water infrastructure is undeniable. the environmental protection agencys september 30. 2002 clean water and drinking water infrastructure gap analysis found that there will be a $535 billion gap between current spending and projected needs for water and wastewater infrastructure over the next 20 years if additional investments are  .made. in ember 2002. the congressional budget office estimated that the annual investment in clean water infrastructure needs to be at least $13 billion for capital construction and $20.3 billion for operation and maintenance. the kyl amendment would restructure the current formula for distributing federal funding to the states under the clean water state revolving fund. srf. program. as chairman of the subcommittee on fisheries. wildlife. and water. with authorizing jurisdiction over the clean water act and the srf program. i thank senator kyl for his interest in the clean water formula. however. i believe the interior appropriations bill is the wrong forum for discussion of any statutory changes to the. clean water srf formula. members of the subcommittee and the environment and public works committee are working closely to craft water infrastructure legislation that would authorize new funding for the clean water and drinking water srfs. as well as address the antiquated clean water srf formula. senator kyl .is correct. the clean water srf formula is in need of revision. arizona is one of many states that have seen their needs grow since the last time -the formula was updated in 1987. the environment and public -works committee is working on the necessary changes to the srf. and hope to move water infrastructure legislation by the end of the summer. i encourage my fellow colleagues to oppose the kyl amendment and support the ongoing process of updating the clean water formula by the environment and public works committee.
. i am pleased to join with senator carper today to introduce the clean air planning act of 2002. congress needs to advance four pollutant legislation that offers the best chance for broad bipartisan support. and i believe this bill meets that test. the testimony received through hearings in the environment and public works committee over the past several years has clearly outlined the need for controlling the major emissions from power plants. sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxlde. mercury and carbon dioxide. while at the same time recognizing the added costs of these new controls. we k through experience that we will only be successful at passing legislation if we find middle ground. the relationship of fossil fuels to global warming is clear and scientifically validated. the release of the "u.s. climate action report 2002" by the administration in may tells us we need to take real actions toward solving the problem. the longer we wait. the harder this problem will be to solve. the rio convention is a perfect example of why waiting is  reasonable. in 1992. we agreed to voluntarily reduce harmful emissions to 1990 levels. it didnt happen. . in 2002 we are told that reductions to 1990 levels will stall the ecoy. if we wait much longer before taking any action. imagine how much harder it will be to achieve real reductions without harming the ecoy. i am a cqsponsor of senator jeffords bill. s. 556. and i voted for it in the environment and public works committee. however. i believe that carperchafee will ultimately enjoy broader support. our bill would achieve significant reductions in a more cost effective way than other proposals. for sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. and mercury. we will establish emission caps that are superior to reductions that can be achieved under the existing clean air act. in addition. for the first time. we will ensure that we achieve real reductions of carbon dioxide emissions. many predicted that the passage of s. 556 from the committee would create a stalemate on this important issue. i believe that the carperchafee bill offers a real opportunity to break the stalemate and begin an honest debate that will eventually lead to enactment of strong legislation. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues as we move forward to pass a bill that enjoys the broadest support and adequately addresses the serious health. environmental. and ecoic issues facing the nation. - by mr. leahy:
. i am pleased to join with senator carper today to introduce the clean air planning act of 2003. congress needs to advance fourpollutant legislation that offers the best chance for broad bipartisan support. and i believe this bill meets that test. the testimony received through hearings in the environment and public works committee over the past several years has clearly outlined the need for controlling the major emissions from power plantssulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. mercury and carbon dioxidewhile at the same time recognizing the added costs of these new controls. we k through experience that we will only be successful at passing legislation if we find middle ground. the parameters of this debate have been established. some will say this bill doesnt go far egh in some respects. others will say the legislation goes too far. especially as it pertains to the mandatory control of carbon dioxide emissions. however. the relationship of fossil fuels to global warming is clear and scientifically validated. the "u.s. climate action report 2002" released by the administration last may tells us we need to take real actions to address the problem. the longer we wait. the harder this problem will be to solve. the rio convention is a perfect example of why waiting is  reasonable. in 1992. we agreed to voluntarily reduce harmful emissions to 1990 levels. it didnt happen. . in 2003 we are told that reductions to 1990 levels will stall the ecoy. if we wait much longer before taking any action. imagine how much harder it will be to achieve real reductions without harming the ecoy. the legislation we are introducing today would achieve significant reductions in a more cost effective way than other proposals. for sulfur dioxide. nitrogen oxide. and mercury. we will establish emissions caps that are superior to reductions that will be achieved under the existing clean air act. in addition. for the first time. we will ensure real reductions of carbon dioxide emissions are achieved. by 2013. the utility sector will be required to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to 2001 levels. this proposal will allow the united states to address carbon pollution for the first time and. when compared to a threepollutant bill. at very small incremental costs. .i believe that the carperchafee bill offers a real opportunity to break the stalemate that exists today and begin an honest debate that will eventually lead to enactment of strorfg legislation. i look forward to working with all of my colleagues as we move forward to pass a bill that enjoys the broadest support and adequately addresses the serious health. environmental. and ecoic issues facing the nation. by mr. crapo (for himself. ms.
. earlier today i voted in favor of invoking cloture on the motion to proceed to s. 2290. the fairness in asbestos injury resolution act. my vote was  an endorsement of s. 2290 as it was introduced in the senate. i recognize that concerns have been raised about specific provisions of the bill. and i would consider supporting amendments to s. 2290 if the senate has an opportunity to fully debate this legislation. however. i am very concerned about shortcomings in the current system. and support legislating a bipartisan solution that offers a fairer. more efficient process for compensating asbestos victims. for this reason. i voted for cloture on s. 2290 in an effort to move the debate forward.
. i rise today to introduce legislation reauthorizing appropriations for the water resources research act. the chairman and ranking member of the senate committee on environment and public works. senators inhofe andjeffords. respectively. as well as senators clin-
. i wish to register my opposition to the kyl amendment  1050 to h.r. 2361. the senate interior appropriations bill. the clean water state revolving fund program is essential for protecting public health. watersheds. and the natural environment by providing critical federal seed money for the maintenance and improvement of water infrastructure. despite important progress in protecting and enhancing water quality since the enactment of the clean water act in 1972. serious water pollution problems persist throughout the nation. the need for continued federal investment in the nations water infrastructure is undeniable. the environmental protection agencys september 30. 2002 clean water and drinking water infrastructure gap analysis found that there will be a $535 billion gap between current spending and projected needs for water and wastewater infrastructure over the next 20 years if additional investments are  .made. in ember 2002. the congressional budget office estimated that the annual investment in clean water infrastructure needs to be at least $13 billion for capital construction and $20.3 billion for operation and maintenance. the kyl amendment would restructure the current formula for distributing federal funding to the states under the clean water state revolving fund. srf. program. as chairman of the subcommittee on fisheries. wildlife. and water. with authorizing jurisdiction over the clean water act and the srf program. i thank senator kyl for his interest in the clean water formula. however. i believe the interior appropriations bill is the wrong forum for discussion of any statutory changes to the. clean water srf formula. members of the subcommittee and the environment and public works committee are working closely to craft water infrastructure legislation that would authorize new funding for the clean water and drinking water srfs. as well as address the antiquated clean water srf formula. senator kyl .is correct. the clean water srf formula is in need of revision. arizona is one of many states that have seen their needs grow since the last time -the formula was updated in 1987. the environment and public -works committee is working on the necessary changes to the srf. and hope to move water infrastructure legislation by the end of the summer. i encourage my fellow colleagues to oppose the kyl amendment and support the ongoing process of updating the clean water formula by the environment and public works committee.
. our distinguished colleague. the gentleman from ohio recently delivered an excellent address before the ohio planning conference. in dayton. ohio. the gentlemans concern was the preservation of our natural resources. and the urgent need for comprehensive planning and understanding of our goals. he pointed out how many seemingly extraneous factors must be included in any of the decisions about planning for growth and conservation in the years to come. because of thegentlemans cosponsorship of legislation to create a national commission on public management. and because ofhis interest in the use of modern management techniques to help us solve our public problems. i include the text of his remarks in the record:
. in september and october of last year. i had the pleasure of inserting into the record a series of articles written by franz scholz. who heads the washington bureau of the lowell sun. lowell. mass. mr. scholz has long been actively concerned with the problems of pollution and specifically. the severe pollution in the merrimack river which runs from the hills of new hampshire through massachusetts to the atlantic ocean at newburyport. it is the same river down which henry david thoreau traveled in 1839. and at the time he called it a "silver cascade." in august 1961. 130 years after thoreau. frank sholz and a young photographerhelmsman. richard taffe. jr.. traveled the same route thoreau had taken to "observe the changes in the rivers and their environment since the days of thoreau." what mr. scholz found. as he stated in the opening of his first article. was longer a "silver cascade." rather. it was "a dump for raw sewage and industrial waste." in his penetrating. wellresearched and compellingly written articles. mr. scholz dealt with the total dimension of the pollution problem as well as its causes and extent. he discussed.  only the adverse affects of merrimack pollution on the surrounding environment. and on the residents of the area. but he also detailed the costs of this pollution. both in terms of income lost. recreation denied. and of the price of cleaning the river. i was delighted to learn this week that mr. scholz. for this truly outstanding piece of investigative reporting. has been hoed by a scrippshoward foundation meeman conservation award. the scrippshoward meeman awards are made annually to reporters who do exceptional work in writing about conservation. the keen competition takes in the entire country. i k that frank scholz will continue to maintain the high level of excellence in reporting that is characteristic of these articles. at once informing the public and calling attention to pressing issues of public policy.
lastly. . i compliment my colleague. the gentleman from new york for his initiative in this area. and also the gentleman from new york . i think it is a bipartisan piece of legislation clearly in the interest of conservation and clearly supporting the actions and initiatives of the state of new york.
. if i may respond to the gentleman from illis first. i thank the gentleman for his comments. however. dr. schaefer goes on to say: our lower atmosphere is rapidly approaching a situation in which pollution is filling it up to the tropopause even though there are very active weather processes tending to remove the pollution particulates quite frequently. this will  be the case. dr. schaefer points out. with the stable and cloudfree stratospherein other words. the upper environment does  have adequate processes of purging itself of these particles.
. today i introduced a bill to encourage states and local subdivisions to take immediate and effective action with respect to water pollution. it is obvious that the tremendous expenditures which are necessary effectively to deal with the problem of water pollution. require the intervention of the federal government. however. we would  want the states and localities to sit back and wait for such help. accordingly this legislation would insure that if any state or locality proceeds in this area. it will  be penalized and will obtain its proper share of federal reimbursement when the federal government finally does make additional and sufficient funds available for this purpose. states should be encouraged to initiate water pollution control programs . with the assurance that if federal funds become available at a later date they will be reimbursed. this retroactive provision will eliminate any lingering doubt that the pioneers in such an important movement for conservation and restoration of our water resources might lose the opportunity to share in future federal funds. i believe that this legislation. entitled "a bill to amend section 8 of the federal water pollution control act to authorize reimbursement of states that prefinance certain treatment works." will provide the necessary safeguard and the incentive for immediate action for clean water. a copy of the bill follows: be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that section 8 of the federal water pollution control act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection: "(h) any state that shall use the proceeds of bonds issued by the state. county. city. of other political subdivision of the state for the construction of one or more projects which otherwise would be eligible for a grant under this section may claim payment of any portion of the sums allotted or reallotted to it under this section to aid in the retirement of the principal of such bonds at their maturities. to the extent that the proceeds of such bonds have been actually expended in the construction of one or more of such projects. such claim for payment may be made only when all of the provisions of this act have been complied with to the same extent and with the same effect as though payment were to be made to the state for a project for future construction. and the federal share payable with respect to such project shall  exceed the amount
. robert alex baron. one of americas ed seabatement exponents. recently addressed the fourth international congress for se abatement in badenbaden. germany. the text of mr. barons address. given in germany on may 13. 1966. appears in the 1966. at page a2629. in his address. mr. baron highlights some of the many problems facing all of us as a result of excessive se in our environment and provides useful information for those interested in the problem. i am happy to report that there has been. to date. considerable and widespread response to the legislation which i have proposed to deal with the general problem of se abatement. i would like at this point in the congressional record to include some of the editorial comments and many letters which i have received regarding various phases of the complex problem of excessive se. it is my hope that a careful perusal of this material will help to enlighten the reader as to some of the particular problems so many of our fellow citizens and especially city dwellers are experiencing as a result of excessive se. as well as demonstrating the serious interest shown by many of those involved in industry. [from the jersey journal and jersey observer. may 23. 19661 the visiting edrrorialits time for us to
. i wish to thank the distinguished ranking miity member of the environment and public works committee for his kind remarks. i also thank the chairman of the committee for the excellent leadership he has given. and to pay tribute to the senior senator from rhode island for his able assistance in this matter. i would like to join in recommending the passage of this amendment. which is a modest amendment. i believe it is controversial and is correct as a matter of equity. as has been already pointed out.
. among the inaccurate allegations that have been circulated about s. 790 is the statement that it would drive marginal. highcost waterways out of business. that is  a fair evaluation of s. 790. as it was introduced. it certainly is  a fair evaluation of the bill. as reported out of the committee on environment and public works. the committee added language. at senator domenicis recommendation. directing the secretary of transportation to set user fees so as  to cause any severe ecoic impact on any particular group of users. that is a fair approach. and i hope that the members will focus on this language. which appears on page 8. line 7 of the bill: in establishing user charges under this section. the secretary is directed to assure that user charges that apply to any particular existing segment of the inland waterways of the united states shall be set at a level so as  to cause serious ecoic disruption among the commercial users of such segment. of course. there is one further protection built into the bill. this is the automatic review of user charge regulations by the congress. which is specifically laid out in the bill. between these two items. user charges can  cause damage to waterway interests. or communities dependent on waterways.
. i think we all realize that s. 208 is  the allencompassing transportation reform bill that many of us in the senate. as well as the house and the administration. would like to see. it is essentially a continuation of the transit assistance programs that have worked in the past and promise to continue to do so. in providence. for example. with umta assistance. bus ridership has jumped 17 percent in the last 5 years. and. with the inative transportation programs contemplated by the city. i think we can look forward to further progress. however. we must  lose sight of the overall need to review and coordinate national policy among all modes of commercial. public. and private transportation and to synchronize such policy with our goals of energy conservation and independence. as a new member of the national transportation policy study commission and as ranking miity member of the environment and public works transportation subcommittee. i look forward to progress in these areas. and i heartily endorse s. 208 as the first major step taken in the 95th congress.
. in connection with my service on the environment and public works committee. i recently had the privilege of going to louisiana for a committee hearing on this very bill and this very section. section 404. and wetlands protection. i was fortunate egh to spend an aftern in the atchafalaya river basin. an extraordinary river basin. just off the mississippi river. up near baton rouge. this basin is tremendously important to the fish and water fowl in the gulf area. the atehafalaya is  only esthetically beautiful but is ecologically bountiful. it serves a very important place as an overflow area when the mississippi river rises to unprecedented heights. as it has in the past. we can afford to lose areas such as this and other similar marshes and wetlands. the real tragedy for this nation is that congress had  wrestled with this problem decades ago.  we are here. and let us do something about it. the wetlands in this nation are disappearing. the department of the interior estimateslisten to this figure. if you do  think it is a shockerthat between 50 percent and 65 percent of our nations wetlands. coastal and interior. have been lost. region is exempt. in the area of the distinguished senator from minnesota . the minnesota conservation federation told the committee that during the last 10 years wetlands decreased in minnesotas 19 western counties at the rate of 4 percent a year. salami that off every year. and pretty soon you do  have any wetlands left. listen to this statistic: in california. they started with 3.5 million acres of wetlands. and  less than a half million are left. what a waste of our natural resources. we do  just blame the people in california. we are all responsible for this. here is a chance to do something about it. i think we can take some slight consolationvery slightthat as a result of the protection act that was passed in 1972. this rate of attrition has been diminished to some extent. i certainly agree with the desire of many members of the senate with respect to the responsibility of the states. i am a states righter. i was a gover. i believe in the states being given responsibility to have a large part of the program for regulating discharges of dredged and fill material. some states already have some excellent wetlands protection acts. georgia does. my own state of rhode island does. but many states do . under this act. we ackledge that states can have a responsibility in phase ii and phase iii. we have provided for a delegation to the states. under more than one means. of the materials disposal program for these waters. but the amendment by the senator from texas leaves phase ii and phase iii in limbo. it provides for certain federal or state protection for waters other than navigable waters and adjacent wetlands. that leaves lots of areas out of it. and furthermore. the areas included are very narrowly defined in the amendment. this amendment excludes numerous ecologically important wetlands and streams. second. it provides that those excluded waters or portions of them may be regulated only through the formation of federalstate agreements that are optional to begin with and that can be revoked by either party. and apparently for any reason. that is  much of an agreement. that does  give much protection to the federal government or to the citizens of this nation. i should like to stress that these wetlands are  something that belong to louisiana or rhode island or michigan or minnesota. they belong to all the citizens. they are much too valuable to be abandoned to some unstable. fragmentary kind of protection. we must bear in mind that these wetlands are part of this larger system. they are  independent. they do  belong only to minnesota. so that if minnesota wants to fill them in. it is too bad for the nation. we have to remember that it affects everything else downstream. there is a linkage between wetlands and streams and estuaries and rivers. and they all must live in harmony.. through wise management. here is an examole. and i did  k about this until we started work on the clean water bill. let us take the kissimmee river. in south central florida. in the early 1960s. this 90milelong stream. with its 45.000 acres of flood plain marshes. was channelized to form a 50mile canal. leaving intact only about 8.000 acres of the original marsh. and essentially eliminating the naturally occurring water level fluctuations of the river marsh. they drug the canal and channelized it and poured concrete all over the place. this was the idea when concrete was in its hay day. the unexpected result of that project is a gross deterioration of water quality in the kissimmee river and in lake okeechobee.
yes. and any other agencies or individuals whom the epa felt would be able to contribute constructively to the resolution of the question. well. i appreciate your thoughts. they are parallel to mine regarding the study. and the environment and public works committee will receive the results of the study by the first of next year.
 signed amendments to the federal water pollution control act. these are important amendments and much time and hard work were invested by members of both the house and senate to get a bill that will assure protection of the environment. one provision of this bill. the section 404 provision which sets the groundwork for a national program to protect our dwindling wetlands. was of great interest to me. i strongly favor such a program because of the tremendous environmental importance of wetland areas. i would. however. like to clarify for the record one point concerning state programs under section 404. question has been raised as to the applicability of other federal statutes. particularly the national environmental policy act and the fish and wildlife coordination act. to discharges of dredged or fill material subject to regulation under an approved state program. to clarify this question i wrote to senator muskie. chairman of the senate environment and public works committees environment subcommittee and of the recently completed conference between the house and senate. i believe that his response to me on this subject answers my questions and clarifies completely the intent of the majority of the conferees. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record my letter and senator muskies response.
. each one of my colleagues is fully aware of the commitment that many line agencies have to the completion of proposed projects. in many instances with less than appropriate attention to other important factors such as endangered species. they want to get the projects built. to allow a single agency head to determine the advisability of destroying a species or completing the agencys project as proposed. seems a bit like putting the fox in charge of the henhouse. the amendment also contains two grandfather clauses. the first would exempt any project at the 50percent stage of completion from having to meet any of the requirements of the act. the second would exempt any project which was under contract or otherwise underway as of the date of enactment of the law. it might be ed first that grandfathering of any sort makes distinction between species. thus. grandfathering. i believe. would be an unacceptable approach to resolving conflicts under the endangered species act for those critics of the act who believe that values can be placed on different species. under the grandfathering clauses of the stennis amendment. eagles. wolves. whooping cranesin other words. all those beautiful species that seem to draw peoples attentionare just as much in jeopardy as are some of the lower life forms. even the acts most vocal critics. i do  believe can possibly intend such a result. this is too high a price to pay for a federal project in the minds of almost everyone. the exemption of all activities that are 50percent complete seems to completely ige the history of the consultation process. if a project can be modified to avoid harm to an endangered species or the critical habitat necessary to the species survival. then the modification should be given every opportunity to succeed. the consultation process has indeed been successful in helping agencies design and carry out modifications in a number of ongoing projects. an outright exemption of projects through grandfathering provisions is a path that the senate ought to avoid in this legislation. the second type of grandfathering that is proposed in the stennis amendment is perhaps perilous as bad as the first. this approach would exempt from the act any project which was in any way ongoing in 1973. the language in the amendment is "or otherwise underway." what exactly does "otherwise underway" mean. it could be defined by the courts to signify congressional intent that all the thousands of federal activities. good or bad. that have been proposed over the years. are above the endangered species act requirements. the sheer number of federal activities involved in this type of exemption is staggering.
even if an objective analysis shows the benefits of saving the species. senator stennis amendment would deny the acts application to a broad range of activities that by any reasonable criteria ought to give consideration to the protections provided by the act. the stennis amendment jeopardizes the workability of the endangered species act. the amendment should be opposed. it undermines one. if  che most important. aspect of the act * * 0 the consultation process. in addition. the grandfathering provisions do less than insure that endangered species considerations will  be brought to light in the vast majority of federal activities for these reasons. . i oppose the amendment which is being proposed by senator stennis and would ask each of my colleagues to oppose it.
. i thank the senator from mississippi. i wish to express my reluctant support for passage of s. 2995. legislation that would authorize an expenditure of some $80 million in new money to complete the national visitors center here in washington. it is shocking and discouraging. i believe. that this project has become such a costly one. over $60.000.000 has already been spent on this project. it is more shocking when we remember that this project was sold to the congress originally as one that would be financed entirely by privately raised funds. with the federal government to take a lease on the property. i have. nevertheless. reluctantly come to the conclusion that this legislation is the only reasonable solution to this perplexing problem. this legislation will assure that union station will  collapse. it will provide both modern heating and electrical systems. it will make the facility more useful as a train station. returning it partially to the arrangement that existed for over 60 years. and it will provide a test for a truly intermodal transportation facility. i should like to discuss briefly the busterminal aspects of this bill. the committee on environment and public works evaluated this aspect of the bill more thsn any other before it approved the addition of up to $30 million for a bus facility. i believe reluctant approval is the best description. to help explain our views on the bus facility. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the committee on environment and public works. report on this bill be printed at this point in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that s. 838. the anadromous fish bill. introduced on thursday. march 29. 1979. and referred to the committee on environment and public works. be jointly referred to the committee on environment and public works and the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. this request has been cleared on both sides of the aisle.
. i would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the environment and public works committee who has been so intensely interested in this measure that comes before us today. indeed. it was the senior senator from west virginia who originally conceived and worked so hard for the passage of this legislation some 14 years ago. i think it is a great tribute to him that the act has come about and that it has continued to receive such solid support from the congress ever since then. i would like to pay tribute also to this same senator for the splendid leadership he has given us in the environment and public works committee. i have never sat in a committee where everybody is given a fairer chance to voice their views. ody is run over. everybody is given an opportunity to object or to agree. staff is very fairly distributed. it is a great privilege for me to serve under the leadership of our very distinguished chairman. i am grateful to have this opportunity to pay tribute to him today.
. i am sure many of us in this chamber differ in our attitude toward the various facets of the alaskan lands issue. we have had filibusters on this subject in the chamber. we have had rather bitter feelings on both sides. and when the measure comes before the senate again i am certain that there is going to be considerable disagreementi suspect that might be the understatement of the dayregarding the amount of land to be included in the various conservation system units. we will disagree on access issues and where you are going to mine. where you are going to be permitted to get oil. where you are going to be permitted to get copper. and all those things. there will be a cxxv- 1349part 17 difference between the proper balance between the energy needs and the conservation goals. but i do think we will all agree on the need for a comprehensive approach.
. i look forward to working on clean water construction grant priorities with chairman randolph. senator stafford. and senator muskie on the environment and public works committee. a great deal of money for treatment will be going out to the states in the next few years. we must be sure that dollars are going where the needs are. we need to keep in mind the secondary treatment deadline in the early 1980s. i am pleased to e that senator muskie. chairman of the environmental pollution subcommittee. is also examining our treatment priorities. he has asked epa for their analysis of the current grant formula and whether the formula is truly geared to our most pressing treatment goals. i would urge that the efforts several of us are making on this issue lead to environment and public works committee consideration of the clean water acts grant program priorities this coming spring. i would also e that clean water and sewage treatment responsibility rests on ones shoulders alone. state and local governments must be willing to share with the federal government the financial burden of cleaning up our streams and waterways. they must use sound judgment in setting their local treatment priorities. they must utilize the grant dollars efficiently. the legislation we are introducing today attempts to give a clearer picture to clean water treatment priorities. by setting a definite. less complicated allotment formula. yet we maintain flexibility by recognizing that some needs are regionally different and there should be room in a formula to provide for these differences. we are  increasing the grant program. in times of a worsening ecoy. we are seeking for our federal dollars the best investment possible in clean. healthy waters.
. i join in the tribute to admiral byrd. to the senators father. and the senator from virginia. as the distinguished senator from arizona mentioned. in 1972 he and i had the pleasure of going to the south pole together.  only with the senator from arizona. but his son and the brothers buckley. it was an unusual group in every respect. that could  be matched for enjoyable company. a fascinating group. we went to the south pole. as the senator from arizona mentioned. just flying u the beardmore glacier from mcnurdo. seeing that incredible countryside. incredible mountains. and then arriving at the great plateau that constitutes the south pole area. we got some small inkling of what it must have been like 50 years before. so i think it is appropriate we make this tribute to that heroic person. richard evelyn byrd.
. who does  recall the environmental excitement of the early 1970s. that fervor was marked by the passage of landmark legislation including the national environmental policy act. the clean water act. and the clean air act. we celebrated our first earth day back then. on april 22. 1970. we dedicated ourselves to preservation of our environment and natural resources. "environment" appeared on pollsters sheets as an issue which captured high public priority. some say that if you take those polls today. environment does  make it on the issues list. it falls somewhere far behind national defense. foreign policy. and inflation. to use a currently favorite expression. it is an asterisk on a poll sheet where other issues capture percentages. i refuse to believe that people longer care about our environment. in fact. i submit that they care so much. that environment has been melded into their perception of the overall quality of their lives. if resources are disappearing in their region. the air is dirty. or the water polluted. people react as though something very basic is missing or has been taken away from them. caring and working for the environment comes naturally. on april 22 of this year. we will once again celebrate the central place that our natural resources and environment hold for us. i am talking about earth day. 1980. labor. industry. government. and all our citizens have a stake in this celebration. we have all worked over the past decade to make dramatic strides in environmental goals. we all have a right to herald these efforts and look forward to the environmental prosperity in the 1980s which will come from them. why should we  congratulate ourselves on what has been accomplished. by 1977. nearly 90 percent of industry had achieved the stated goal of clean water treatment for that date. billions of dollars have been invested in municipal wastewater plants. fish and other forms of life have returned to rivers from where they were earlier exiled. carbon moide in the air is down by 35 percent since 1972. attention has been given to both techogy solutions and basic practices in how we operate a plant. farm. dredge. and construct public works. at the same time. our attention should be focused on what remains to be done. in some ways we will be reacting in the 1980s to the damage that has already occurred. such as the hazardous wastes already buried at abandoned sites throughout the country. in other ways we can think ahead to include concern for the environment in planning for the future. .i am today introducing a senate concurrent resolution to recognize the celebration of earth day. 1980 and all that we have accomplished in our environmental efforts. my colleague. congressman fisher is introducing such a resolution in the house. we are joined by several members of both bodies who agree that our commitment to environmental prosperity should be celebrated. the people of this nation deserve this celebration. they will benefit and learn from it. environment has indeed become central to how we perceive our quality of life. organizations and governments in communities throughout the country have already begun plans for earth day. there will be recycling workshops. tree plantings. ecology centers open houses. environmental fairs. and citizen seminars. the resolution i am introducing today expresses the support of the congress for this celebration of the earth and its environment. i urge that my colleagues join me in looking forward to this national and local recognition of environmental spirit.*
. i support the bill before us. s. 2080. and commend it to my colleagues. the public buildings act of 1980 is comprehensive legislation. c:ntaining new and revised authorities for the multibillion dollar public buildings service of the general services administration. it is the culminaton of work extending over more than a year and a half by the committee on environment and public works. since 1978. responsibility for public buildings matters has been handled by the senator from new york -with whom i have been pleased to serve as the miity counterpartand exercised directly by the full committee with active participation of the chairman. senator randolph. and the ranking miity member. senator
. earlier this year the senate passed the epa research and development bill. s. 2726. that authorized epa to conduct testing and demonstration cleanup techogies at sites in coventry. burrillville. th smithfield. and smithfield. r.i. if this amendment is adopted i hope these additional funds will be used in the effort to clean up these sites. epa has provided some assistance in the effort of monitoring and cleaningup some sites in rhode island. but only the surface of this emous task only in rhode island but across the countryhas been scratched. until epa is given the resources and authority under a superfund bill to tackle the serious problems posed by hazardous waste dumps. it is important that we give the agency adequate funding to address these problems.
. this is a responsible piece of legislation. it goes a long way in giving epa the ability to conduct research in many areas where human life and the environment are damaged by pollution. i urge my colleagues to adopt the bill.
. nearly 200 years ago. in 1782. the continental congress officially adopted the bald eagle as the symbol or our newly formed nation.. in commemoration of that action. 11 am introducing a. joint resolution designating 1982 as the "bicentennial year of the american bald eagle." and june 20. 1982. as "national bald eagle day." then. as . the bald eagle symbolized the best qualities of our nationfreedom. strength. and courage. at the time of its designation. the bald eagle was plentiful throughout th america. however. as. the country expanded westward. converting eagle habitat to other uses. the eagle population experienced a marked decline. during the past two centuries loss of habitat. environmental pollutants. and other .adverse activities brought the .eagle pepulation dangerously near collapse throughout the lower 48 states. more recently. the tenacious efforts of a wide varriety of agencies. organizations. industries. and individuals are beginning to reverse the eagles downward trend. but. the fight. to secure a healthy eagle population is far from over. the joint resolution i am introducing today will stand as a tribute  only to the majesty of the bald eagle and the nation it represents. but also to the many people across the country who have worked so hard for its recovery. it should stand. too. as a reminder that by working together we can preserve and maintain the eagle and the environment upon which it and other wildlife depend.
. i wish to take this opportunity to express my deep appreciation and thanks to all those on the environment and public works committee and especially to our chairman who is unable to be here this evening and the man we always call chairman who served as chairman of that committee for so many years. the aistinguished senior senator from west virginia. he attended our conference sessions with great faithfulness. he was a tower of support and understands this legislation. he recognizes what we are attempting to achieve and he has supported. ui with great vigor and consistency throughout those long sessions that we had with the house conferees. like any conference. we did  achieve everything that the senate conferees sought. but etheless wve believe that this legislation that emerged. the conference report we are voting on nriw. was a fair one to both sides anti indeed fair to the citizens of our nation. it authorizes some $2.4 billion a year for 4 years. as the senior senator from west virginia said. for the waste water treatment plants. some 35 states  are out of funds. without the passage of thia legislation and without the passage of the legislation of course with the appropriations which must follow. the programs in those 35 states will come to a stop. so. as i mentioned. most of the reform we sought. and the administration sought. has been included in this legis lation. so i urge the senate to adopt the con ference report.
. i would like to point out that congress has always approached the resolution of environmental problems in a partisan manner. during the environmental decade of the 1970s. members from both sides of the aisle and in both houses of congress worked together to develop such landmark laws as the clean air act. the endangered species act. the resource conservation and recovery act. the new superfund program and a plethora of other important environmental programs. just last december. members from both parties worked together to reauthorize the clean water acts war. water treatment. program. the end result was a program that will improve our water quality. cut redtape. and save the taxpayers $1 billion a year. this would  have been possible if we did  have the partisan support of members from both the house and senate. i hope. as we continue to work on the reauthorization of the clean air act. that all of us come together to develop a strong and equitable clean air program which will continue the national commitment to improving air quality.
i appreciate the senators concerns on the jurisdictional issue. since i share those concerns from the perspective of our committee. the environment and public works committee has sole jurisdiction over this legislation presently. i understand that he is neither requesting  intending that the limited role for state coastal zone management agencies under your amendments be used to establish jurisdiction for the commerce committee concerning future amendments. which may include. but  be limited to. further additions to or deletions from the coastal barrier resources system established under s. 1018. is that correct.
i would like to clarify with the leadership of the committee on environment and public works. and with other conferees on title i of h.r. 6211. the conference provision dealing with buyamerica requirements. the agreement among conferees was very clearly to continue with one exception. the provisions of current law as contained in title iv of the surface transportation assistance act of 1978. public law 95599. do my colleagues agree.
. today i join senator dodd and senator randolph in introducing the hazardous waste identification improvement act. which .will amend the solid waste disposal act as amended by the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976. the purpose of the bill is to close loopholes in the current regulatory program which have become apparent in the evolution of the national hazardous waste management program. one product of our industrial society which has emerged as a national health and environmental concern is hazardous waste. vast quantities of hazardous waste have been generated in the past four decades. mismanagement of hazardous waste has damaged our land. water and air and posed grave risks to public health. damage to the environment may take many forms including: groundwater and water supply contamination. wildlife habitat destruction. soil contamination. fish kills. loss of livestock. air pollution. fire. explosion and crop damage. hazards to human health can be devastating. whether through inhalation. skin contact or ingestion. the impacts on the function of the human body can be serious. the congress in 1976 enacted the resource conservation and recovery act in an effort to provide for development of a national regulatory program for the management of hazardous wastesfrom its generation to its ultimate disposalthe socalled cradletograve management system. since 1976. epa has been establishing national re. quirements for the management of february 1. 1988 coin hazardous wastes in a manner protective of human health and the environment. development of the full range of regulations needed for an effective program has  proceeded as quickly as the congress intended. delays in promulgation of regulations have resulted in delays in implementation of the act in general. however. the agency did promulgate the final major regulatory package last year. implementation of the rcra program is a shared responsibility of epa and state governments through epaauthorized state hazardous waste management programs. in view of the scope and complexity of the comprehensive regulatory program  in place. both epa and the states have a monumental task to fully implement the regulations. as withany new program. implementation of the hazardous waste program has brought to light a number of deficiencies or loopholes. two of these loopholes are the focus of the bill that i am joining senator dodd in introducing todaythe hazardous waste identification improvement act. later this week i intend to introduce legislation to address a number of other gaps in coverage under the current rcra program. the provisions of the hazardous waste identification improvement act contain provisions relating to listing and delisting of hazardous wastes. the rcra regulations provide two mechanisms for determining whether a waste is hazardous: a set of characteristics of hazardous waste and a list of specific hazardous wastes. a waste must be managed in accord with rcra regulations if it either exhibits any of the characteristics or if it is listed. epa has developed criteria for identifying the characteristics of hazardous waste and for determining which wastes to list. since the initial identification of characteristics and listing of specific hazardous wastes. epa has  expanded the set of characteristics  added significantly to the list of hazardous wastes. even dioxie of the most toxic substances kn to manhas  been added to the list. one section of the harardous waste identification improvement act requires epa within 2 years to identify additional characteristics of hazardous waste and add specific wastes to the list of hazardous wastes. the agency must submit to the congress within 6 months a plan outlining their program to meet this requirement. the bill also requires that epa within 6 months promulgate regulations listing dioxinand dibenzofurancontaining wastes as hazardous. the statutory definition of hazardous waste requires epa to make a judgment as to the hazard posed by a waste "when improperly treated. stored. transported or disposed of. or otherwise managed." in waste containing toxic constituents. this hazard is dependent on two factors: the intrinsic hazard of the constituents of the waste. and the release of the constituents to the environment under conditions of improper management. one provision of this bill would require epa with the national toxicology program to evaluate the feasibility of determining whether the presence of certain constituents (such as kn carciens) at levels substantially in excess of levels commonly agreed to affect health may cause wastes to be hazardous per se. a waste is identified as hazardous either because it exhibits one of the characteristics or because it appears on the list of hazardous wastes. both particular wastes and sources or classes of waste streams may appear on the list. epa has chosen to emphasize waste streams in addition to specific hazardous substances because industrial wastes tend to be complex mixtures. containing many different constituents. only some of which may exhibit hazardous characteristics. individual waste streams may vary depending on raw materials. industrial processes and other factors. thus. while a waste stream listed by epa may be hazardous. a specific waste from an individual facility may  be. for this reason. the rcra regulations contain a mechanism for demonstrating that a specific waste from a particular facility should  be included in the regulatory control program. the delisting process. as it is called. allows petitioners. and/or individual hazardous waste generators. the opportunity of showing that their waste is significantly different from listed wastes of the same type. if the proper showing is made. epa can exclude from regulation as a hazardous waste the specific waste from a particular f acllity. what the regulations do  adequately address is that all of the constituents in a waste stream may  have been taken into consideration when the waste was originally listed. or in some treatment process. additional wastes may  have been rendered sufficiently hazardous. or these wastes contain dangerous elements which still have  been listed by epa as hazardous. current epa regulations do  allow the agency to reject a delisting petition if the petitioners waste contains hazardous constituents in addition to those for which it was originally listed. this is a growing problemas more and more delisting petitions are being submitted to epa for action. to address this problem. the bill gives epa the authority to consider additional constitutents or other relevant factors when evaluating a delisting petition. if the agency has reason to believe that there are additional hazardous constituents present in the waste in potentially significant concentrations. they can ask the petitioner to demonstrate that is is  the case. after sufficient comment period for the petititoner. epa has the right to grant or deny a delisting petition based  only on the original constituent for which the waste was listed. but also on any additional hasardous constituents. i will work with the committee on environment and public works to consider this bill along with other amendments to the resource conservation and recovery act.e by mr. hatfield:
. today i am introducing legislation to strengthen the solid waste disposal act as amended by the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976 (rcra). last year the committee on environment and public works had to postpone until this year completing action on these amendments. we are anxious to take action on rcra quickly to put in place the strengthening provisions contained in this years bill. i am keenly interested in strengthening the national hazardous waste management program. the emotion raised by the mere mention of hazardous waste has escalated our concern to the point that hazardous waste is one of the most critical environmental problems of this decade. i fear we are only just beginning to discover the magnitude and extent of the problems which improper disposal of hazardous wastes have caused. only through proper disposal in the future can we avoid continuing and exacerbating the hazardous waste dilemma. and it is a dilemmaas an industrial. technical society. we manufacture products through processes which produce byproducts and wastes which may pose a threat to public health and the environment. unless we safely handle or dispose of these waste products we threaten the society which supports the sales and use of the primary products. our choice is to stop manufacture or to control the disposal of these wastes in a manner that is protective of both public health and the environment. as a society we have chosen the latter. this is where rcra comes ina strong. aggressive program on the management of hazardous waste from generation to disposal. recognizing the growing problem of hazardous waste in this country. in 1976 the congress enacted rcra. rcra provides for the establishment of national programs for the regulation of hazardous wastes from generation through transportation. storage or treatment. to disposal. intended to follow hazardous waste from cradle to grave. rcra provides the framework for a comprehensive regulatory program for management of hazardous waste which is protective of human health and the environment. adding to this initiative. the congress in 1980 enacted the comprehensive environmental response. compensation and liability actor superfundto address the environmental problems posed by uncontrolled hazardous waste sites and spills of hazardous materials. progress in implementing the hazardous waste management program has been slower than the congress intended. although parts of the regulatory program have been in place for some time. epa promulgated the last of the core rcra regulations last year and implementation of the entire program can  proceed in earnest. implementation of the components of the regulatory program has brought to light a number of areas where the act did  provide sufficient guidance. where the regulatory approach has gaps in coverage. or where loopholes have been discovered. the purpose of the bill i am introducing today is to address these issues. the solid waste disposal act amendments of 1983 strengthen the act by providing a much stronger. more comprehensive regulatory framework for epa. by giving greater incentives to the agency to move aggressively to implement full coverage of this act and move toward a better prioritization of hazardous waste man agement strategies. in developing these amendments to rcra. we have received comments and guidance from a wide variety of individuals. representing federal and state government. the environmental community. the public. hazardous waste generators. transporters. and disposers. the bill represents the best of the information we have received. during april. i plan to hold hearings on this bill so that we can further refine the bill and move it to full committee for consideration. as i have said previously. it is my hope. and that of chairman starord. that we can report this bill from the committee expeditiously. the administration is considering transmitting to the congress a bill to strengthen rcra. i can comment on this bill yet. but the subcommittee on environmental pollution will consider it when we hold hearings. the solid waste disposal act amendments of 1983 authorize funding for the current year and for fiscal year 198487 for carrying out the provisions of the act. historically. rcra has been authorized for 2 years at a time because it was a new program and congress sought to scrutinize it frequently to assure that implementation complied with intent. in an effort to provide stability and continuity. i have included a 4year authorization. this will also give the states a source of continued funding at higher levels as they begin to take over the most complex and difficult components of the rcra program. i will briefly describe the major provisions of the bill. because the most controversial issue in the rcra amendments last year related to small quantity generators. i want to discuss in detail the provisions relating to those generators. we have revised last years provision and developed a phased program to bring generators of hazardous wastes in quantities of less than 1.000 kilograms per month into the rcra regulatory program for the first time.
. i ask that a summary of its major provisions be printed in the record. i am hopeful that the senate will join us in exploring ways to fulfill the conservation role that we k this country and its wildlife managers. scientists. and its general citizenry are capable of playing.
. as chairman of the authorizing subcommittee which has jurisdiction over the endangered species act. i would just like to add that i have worked closely on developing this provision with my good friend from wyoming [senator wallop]. senator wallop has correctly stated the intent of the provision. i do want to emphasize. however. that it is  within the meaning or intent of this provision to abrogate or supplant the requirements of the endangered species act. the subcommittee on environmental pollution will be reviewing the act when the current authorization for appropriations expires next year and will consider what. if any. changes in the program may be warranted at that time. i do share my colleagues deep concern over potential conflicts between the needs of endangered or threatened species and the use of water rights. it is my hope that the working group outlined in this legislation will be successful in finding ways to avoid or resolve conflicts that may arise.
madam president. i am pleased to present to the senate the conference report on h.r. 2867. the solid and hazardous waste amendments of 1984. when we last addressed this matter on july 25. 1984. the senate unanimously approved s. 757. the solid waste disposal act amendment of 1984. the bill before us today is a conference substitute for s. 757 and for the original version of h.r. 2867. to my mind. madam president. we have taken the best of both bills and pro. duced a piece of legislation that we can all be proud of. it is a tough bill designed to deal with a tough problem: the control of hazardous waste. in 1976. the resource conservation and recovery act ercra) was enacted as an amendment to the solid waste disposal act. subtitle c of rcra established this nations basic hazardous waste management system. that law. and the amendments we are considering today. are designed to assure the people of this nation that the generation. handling. storage. treatment. transportation and disposal of hazardous waste in this country is regulated and controlled in a manner that protects both human health and the environment. the importance of this law and the need for such assurances can only be
 reagan and prime minister mulroney regarding acid rain. once again. the administration has taken the bold step of proposing further study of acid rain. this ion of more study is contrary to findings of every single report on the impact of acid rain on the streams and waterways of the theast. a report released earlier this year concluded that four out of five of my states cleanest waterways are either dying or being endangered by acid rain. in at least two of these acid levels are high egh to kill fish. but even with these kinds of statistics and others from vermont. new york. maine. and new hampshire. the solution we are offered is further study. it is a major disappointment to me that any action by the congress will apparently be opposed by the administration as being unnecessary until this new study is completed. last year the environment and public works committee reported clean air amendments that would have reduced sulphur emissions by about 40 percent over 10 years in 31 eastern states. once again. this year i predict that similar legislation will be reported from our committee. i fervently wish the administration would support it. i want to include at this point in my .statement a copy of the article from the providence journal which summarizes the findings of the rhode island survey.
i commend both senator stafford and senator domenici for reaching this understanding. as one who is deeply concerned about the prevalence of hazardous waste dumps throughout the united states. with my own state of rhode island having its share of such sites. i am extremely anxious that the superfund program be extended and enlarged without hitch well prior to its expiration date on september 30. 1985.
the senator is correct. i might add. . that this matter has been discussed at some length among the members of the environment and public works committee. the committee has corresponded with the administrator of epa. and we are informed that the agency has the authority to enter into the agreement as set forth in the amendment.
. one of my top priorities as chairman of the subcommittee on environmental pollution is to have a bill extending the endangered species act (esa]. one of the worlds strongest and most important environmental laws. passed by the congress and signed into law. as we make progress in our efforts to clean up our rivers and toxic dumps. we must  lose sight of the need to maintain biological diversity. that is what the esa is all about. earlier this year we held several hearings in washington. dc. to examine how well the act is working. during the first week of july. we continued this process with -a hearing in montana to review the. plight of the grizzly bear in the thern continental divide ecosystem. the -grizzly is classified under the esa as a threatened species in the lower 48 states. since the bear is the subject of some controversy in both the yellowstone ecosystem and the thern ecosystem. i .spent several days in montana meeting and talking about grizzlies with experts from the u.s. park. fish and wildlife. and forest services. as well as the montana fish and wildlife department.. representatives from environmental groups. backcountry guides. local landowners. ranchers. and businessmen also had an opportunity to explain how they thought the law was working. and whether the grizzly bear -is making .a comeback. in the thern ecosystem. as you k. the goal of the esa is recovery. after identifying a particular species as endangered or threatened. we work on improving the habitat and health of that species so that it can exist on its own without the need for management under the act. in contrast to what i discovered about grizzlies in the. yellowstone ecosystem 2 years ago. the news from montana and the thern continental divide ecosystem is encouraging. we are making significant progress. the ability and willingness of people in that area to coexist with this majestic. albeit powerful and potentially fierce. animal are living examples of a true conservation ethic. unfortunately. the eiistence of some "nuisance" bears is a reality. people living 40 or 50 miles away from what is generally recognized as "bear habitat" occasionally need to have government officials trap or kill a particular bear that is threatening their families and homes. this doesnt happen often but when it does the government should respond quickly in an attempt to trap and relocate the bear to an area where he can do harm and will  be harmed. only as an absolute last resort. after several relocation have failed. do officials even consider killing the problem bear. this is as it should be. government officials and other experts are  working on various test methods to make grizzlies more wary of people. these experts should be encouraged to continue such tests because. if they are successful. the number of conflicts between humans and bears will decrease and the need to trap and relocate grizzlies will also decrease. this report on grizzlies in montana is upbeat. the esa is working well and the bear is doing well. with the assistance of trained. responsive government officials. people can peacefully coexist with grizzly bears. the law does  need to be changed and i will continue to work for extension of this important law. the endangered species act.e
. thebill is clearly related to any comprehensive acid rain control strategy we develop in congress. we can continue to let things stand as they are on the acid rain issue. each day aher 100.000 tons of sulfur dioxide go into the atmosphere eventually landing in our water and on our soil. the national academy of sciences has estimated that acid rain is costing us billions of dollars through the destruction of buildings. vegetation. and water. in rhode island. where our citizens pay high electric rates for clean fuel and less emissions. we are drenched with acid rain from upwind states. where the neutral level of acidity in water is 7 on the ph scale our rainfall is at about 4 which is highly acidic and is threatening many of our lakes and streams. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. it will  solve the acid rain problem by itself but it will bring us closer to eliminating much of the harmful pollution causing the problem.
. as we consider this landmark bill to reauthorize superfund. and to recommit the nation to addressing the dangers of toxic wastes. we must  make the mistake of focusing our attention entirely on remedying problems created in the past. we must look to the future as well. and be mindful that hazardous waste management facilities. if  properly operated. can create new dangers. new harm to human health and the environment. and new superfund sites that will have to be remedied by future generations. one of the most important protections we have authorized in our national environmental legislation has been the requirement that those engaged in the business of hazardous waste generation and disposal demonstrate adequate financial responsibility for their potential liability. those assurances are absolutely vital to the integrity of epas program under the resource conservation and recovery act. and yet. i am troubled by the present lack of any meaningful environmental impairment liability insurance. and the dilemma created by epas blind insistance that owners and operators of hazardous waste facilities obtain such insurance. this situation is undermining the rcra program. and it may prove to be the achilles heel of the superfund program. if responsible. well operated facilities can meet epas current financial responsibility regulations. they may have to cease their operations. and we longer can be confident that adequate disposal capacity will be available for either rcra or superfund wastes. in addition. those few insurance policies which are available to the hazardous waste industry do  adequately protect inent victims exposed to toxic wastes. epa is well aware of this situation. most eil insurance policies today contain exclusions that would prevent the coverage. for instance. of claims for genetic damage. and claims arising out of the facilitys compliance with laws and regulations. even when such compliance is unintentional and technical in nature. these are gaping loopholes in the policies. and they are only a few examples of the many ways an insurer could escape liability. if his insured is unable to pay. inent victims will suffer. in the hazardous and solid waste amendments of 1984. congress took two important steps to address this dilemma. first. in section 3004(t)(1) congress authorized facility owners and operators to use any one. or a combination. of mechanisms to provide assurance of their- financial responsibility. these include  only insurance. but also guarantees. surety bonds. letters of credit. and self insurance. given the current eil insurance crisis. these are important and legitimate mechanisms. epa has  taken steps to change its regulations and authorize all of these various mechanisms. it is iging the mandates of the rcra statute. and thereby threatening the existence of waste disposal capacity on which the superfund program will depend in the years ahead. the agency must promptly amend its regulations and conform them to the statute before the ember 8. 1985 rcra deadline falls. second. in the same section of rcra (3004(t)(1)). congress authorized epa to close the loopholes in insurance contracts. that section empowers the administrator to specify policy or other contractual terms. conditions. or defenses which are necessary or are unacceptable to effectuate the purposes of rcra. it is time epa assumed the leadership in this area that congress -intended. the regulations should be revised to incorporate those restrictions for at least the loopholes of which epa presently is aware.e
s plan will do little to solve the problem. it is little more than a plan for more studies. acceptance of the special envoys plan will  reduce the pressure to adopt concrete programs to curb the damage. we k egh to act and must act to reduce pollution that causes acid rain. since we first developed acid rain control legislation in 1979 and 1980. report after report has proven the case for imposition of controls. a report released early last year concluded that four out of five of rhode islands cleanest waterways are either dying or being endangered by acid rain. at least two have acid levels high egh to kill fish. a report released last week by the national academy of sciences concluded that a "causal relationship" does link sulfur emissions from the burning of fossil fuels with acid rain and increased levels of acid in lakes and streams. the bill we are introducing today is based on scientific evidence that has been developed since 1979. this new information tells us  only that our original proposals were sound but that we were being too conservative. this new bill is a departure from earlier proposals in several important respects. first. this bill attempts to control a variety of air pollutants in a variety of ways. in the past. attention in both the congress and the press has focused on one specific pollutantsulfur dioxide. but the great research progress weve made in the past years has  only made the case against sulfur dioxide more convincing. but implicated other airborne chemicals as well. therefore. this bill proposes reductions  only of sulfur dioxide. but also oxides of nitrogen. ozone. hydrocarbons. and carbon moide. second. the focus of this bill is  only on the damage which acid rain and other air pollution is doing to lakes and streams. but also on soils. forests. crops. building materials. and human health. there is little. if any. doubt that all of these are  at risk in the debate over what is conventionally referred to as "acid rain". third. because the bill attempts to deal with more .pollutants and more damages. it also would cover the entire united states.  just a region. previous bills have suggested that control efforts be limited to a certain number of states. but evidence  shows that our concerns should be continental.  regional. finally. the bill does  rely on any given techogy or approach.  does it suggest that the total pollution reductions should be a set amount. previous bills have suggested a reduction of 8. 10. or even 12 million tons of sulfur dioxide emissions as a target. this bill suggests .that instead of establishing a specific number. the nation should commit itself to curbing pollution as much as possible through approaches which already exist. in that sense. this bill is a true "state of the art" proposal. for example. the pollution produced by many american powerplants could be cut in half by either switching to clean american coal or installing devices already in operation in countries like japan. similarly. if all cars sold in the united states were as clean as 25 percent of the models  being built and soldbuilt and sold by united states companies. i might add.  just their japanese or european competitorsacidbased and other air pollution would drop dramatically. for 7 years. the congress has been engaged in a debate called acid rain. with the common belief that the pollutants are new and so are the arguments. in fact. both the pollutants and the debates are echoes from the 1960s and the 1970s and even earlier. what has changed since then is the level of scientific certainty. acid rain  only can but has killed lakes and streams. as well as other damage. one scientific report after aher has made this so clear that if the congress were a court of law. the jury could have difficulty returning a verdict of guilty. it has become increasingly clear that more is at stake here than just lakes and streams. the congress thought 16 years ago that the stakes were the trees. crops. and very lives of americans. and on that basis we enacted the clean air act. today science has indicated that those judgments of 16 years ago were  only correct. but that the congress did  go far egh. muchmuch moreis  needed. and the acid rain debate has made this clear. we have made great progress in the united states chiefly because of laws enacted in the 1970s to meet challenges which arose in the 1950s and 1960s. this is a new era and it demands new solutions. " that is what this bill suggests: all powerplants should be as clean as those few which  utilize the fuels and techogy of 1986. all cars and trucks should be as clean as the few built with the computers and engines of 1986. and all citizens should be protected from the pollution produced by these smokestacks and exhaust pipes.
i want to associate myself with what the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee. which has jurisdiction over nepa. has said. i am very concerned about an exemption from nepa for public works projects and i also want assurance from my distinguished colleagues that this project is  beng exempted from the nepa process.
. the problem of ozone depletion. the greenhouse effect. and climate change have  yet been elevated to the same level of public awareness as toxic waste or acid rain. nevertheless. that is changing and. as more and more people become aware ofand concerned about--oone depletion and climate change. we will be held accountable. by giving our advice and consent to ratification of the vienna convention for the protection of the ozone layer. we are taking a small but important initial step toward solving the ozone depletion problem.
s council appreciated the fact that there will fact. on environmental quality who worked always be scientific uncertaintly and although the problems of strato- as a chemist for 26 years. has said. that policymakers and those who spheric ozone depletion. the green- "we can afford to give chemicals make regulatory decisions can house effect. and climate change have the same constitutional rights that we allow themselves to be paralyzed by  yet been elevated to the same level enjoy under the law * * * chemicals these gaps in kledge. of public awareness as toxic waste or are  inent until proven guilty." sure. we can continue to study the acid rain. more and more people are by  making policy choices today. problemand we should continue our becoming aware ofand concerned by sticking. to a "wait and see" ap- studiesbut we can wait until aboutozone modification and climate proach. we may in fact be making a these studies are completed. we need change. the press that these issues passive choice. by allowing the so- action. have received in the past few months called "greenhouse" gases to continue those who argue against action like is evidence of mounting awareness and to build up in the atmosphere. this to recite the caveats. uncertainties. concern. there have been stories and generation may be committing all of and margins of error that accompany editorials in newspapers across this us to severe ecoic and environmen- scientific reports and projections in country. canada. and europe. national tal disruption without ever having de- this area. for those people. it is worth television. radio. and magazines like cided that the value of "business as hing that the margins of error usunewsweek and the new yorker. usual" is worth the risks. ally associated with the greenhouse in june of this year. the senate sub- those who believe that these are effect are in terms of only decades. committee on environmental pollu- problems to be dealt with by future the issues of magnitude and timing tion. which i chair. conducted 2 days generations are misleading themselves. need to be resolved but they do  of hearings to explore the nature of mans activities to date may have al- need to be resolved before we take these problems and to examine what is ready committed us to some level of action. it is important to talk about being done by the u.s. government. temperature change. if historical evi- projections of. for example. global domestically and internatinally. to dence is any guide. a slight warming warming over the next 50 to 100 years. both improve our understanding. of may be egh to turn productive. but disagreement over the accuracy of these matters and to respond to them. temperate climates into deserts. to projections for that timeframe obscure -. why did. we decide to spend quote from a -recent department of. the issue: do we have the right to poltime on these problems. why is all of energy report. "large changes in both lute the atmosphere today in a
. i would like to discuss with senators garn and leahy the manner in which this continuing resolution. hodse joint resolution 738. addresses the problems of stratospheric ozone depletion. the greenhouse effect and climate change. this resolution incorpo-
. under the leadership of the chairman of the committee on environment and public works.  worked long and hard for this legislation. despite innumerable obstacles. he never gave up hope or slackened in his tireless efforts to achieve the goal of a new. improved superfund. for months and months. the conference meetings went on and on. at each and every meetingsmall private sessions or large public meetingshe was there. anyone who cares about this program is indebted to the senior senator from vermont. a gentleman in the truest sense of the word. approval of this legislation today will put into place a new. improved superfund program. assuming enactment of this bill. we will have a new law that corrects many of the prob-. les- and weaknesses that have been discovered since superfund was first created in 1980. for example. the conferees have agreed to add to the law and this legislation includes the following key provisions: funding: the program is extended for 5 years at a level of $8.5 billionan increase of more than fivefold over the old law which provided only $1.6 billion for the first 5 years. underground tanks: a new program to clean up leaking underground storage tanks is established. funded at $500 million over 5 years. this program is designed to address problems such as those that plagued ca park in rhode island. community right to k: a new program requiring companies using more than 25.000 pounds of toxic chemicals to disclose and develop emergency plans for 400 such toxic chemicals is added. i schedules: the epa is required by law to begin at least 375 cleanups within 5 years. health: the federal government is required to conduct health studies at all superfund sites and to conduct laboratory tests of at least 275 of the most dangerous chemicals found at sites. citizen suits: citizens are given an express right to sue to force the federal government to perform mandatory duties imposed under the law. victims rights: language is included which gives victims of toxic chemicals relief from restrictive state statute of limitation laws. many of which require an individual to initiate a lawsuit within a few years of exposure to a toxic substance even though the effects of exposure may  show up for decades. under the new law. the statute of limitations will run from the time an individual discovers there is a cause of action for suit. rather than from the time of actual exposure. . cleanup standards: rigorous new environmental cleanup standards which will require the environmental protection agency to comply with other federal environmental standards in cleaning up toxic waste sites and which will. in many cases. require that epa adhere to tougher state standards where a state has more stringent regulations are added by the bill. this deals with the issue of how clean is clean. in the context of this provision. epa will be required to remove contaminated dirt at the picillo dump site in coventry. this provision was added at my insistence after the state of rhode island was forced by epa to go to court last december in an effect to get epa to remove the contaminated dirt. siting of hazardous waste facilities: a new provision that i sponsored will require each state to devise a plan within 3 years for the disposal or treatment of the toxic wastes generated within the state. the objective is to force states to provide safe and adequate facilities for toxic and hazardous waste. states will be allowed to pool their resources to provide joint disposal or treatment facilities. states failing to comply will lose the right to all but emergency cleanup funds from the superfund. these are tough. realistic provisions that make major improvements to the superfund law. they are significant changes that will improve the governments ability to respond to problems presented by toxics that are released or threatened to be released into the environment and will force the government to upgrade the quality and permanent nature of its responses. this legislation will also provide citizens living near these sites with the tools needed to assure that these sites are being properly and adequately cleaned up. for example. epa will longer be able to argue that they can ige rhode islands more stringent clean up standards at the picillo site in coventry. new cleanup standards designed to answer the question. "how clean is clean.". will force epa to do more than simply install a fence around the site to keep people away and a cap over the site to keep rain off the site. over the past 5 years. this capping has become epas standard method of cleanup. it has become the rule. it will  be the exception. important legislative history explaining the conference agreement and the statutory language of this legislation is contained in a statement of managers. to supplement that statement of managers. several key points need to be made.
. i wish to thank the chairman of our full committee on environment and public works. senator stafford. the ranking member of the environmental pollution subcommittee senator mitchell and the ranking member of the full committee. senator bentsen for their hard work and diligent efforts to make this legislation possible. i would also like to thank the staff who labored long and hard in putting this legislation together. particularly bob hurley and phil cummings. ron outen. jeff peterson. jimmie powell. steve shlmberg. and all the others who spent long hours and what seemed like endless days of negotiations on the bill.
. the circumstances surrounding the california sea otter are unique. establishment of a second population of these marine mammals is critical to the species continued existence. the translocation effort currently is jeoardized by potential conflicts between the provisions of the endangered species act and the marine mammal protection act. and there is a long and complicated history of conflicts among the interests affected by a translocation of california sea otters. because of these special circumstances. i believe we must go forward with this legislation. we owe it to the california sea otter. translocation of the california sea otter. as provided by h.r. 4531. also is an important step toward the protection and restoration of the southern sea otter within its historic range. what we do here today. hopefully. will show the way for additional efforts on behalf of the southern sea otter in the years ahead.
. today i join senator dodd and senator randolph in introducing the hazardous waste identification improvement act. which .will amend the solid waste disposal act as amended by the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976. the purpose of the bill is to close loopholes in the current regulatory program which have become apparent in the evolution of the national hazardous waste management program. one product of our industrial society which has emerged as a national health and environmental concern is hazardous waste. vast quantities of hazardous waste have been generated in the past four decades. mismanagement of hazardous waste has damaged our land. water and air and posed grave risks to public health. damage to the environment may take many forms including: groundwater and water supply contamination. wildlife habitat destruction. soil contamination. fish kills. loss of livestock. air pollution. fire. explosion and crop damage. hazards to human health can be devastating. whether through inhalation. skin contact or ingestion. the impacts on the function of the human body can be serious. the congress in 1976 enacted the resource conservation and recovery act in an effort to provide for development of a national regulatory program for the management of hazardous wastesfrom its generation to its ultimate disposalthe socalled cradletograve management system. since 1976. epa has been establishing national re. quirements for the management of february 1. 1988 coin hazardous wastes in a manner protective of human health and the environment. development of the full range of regulations needed for an effective program has  proceeded as quickly as the congress intended. delays in promulgation of regulations have resulted in delays in implementation of the act in general. however. the agency did promulgate the final major regulatory package last year. implementation of the rcra program is a shared responsibility of epa and state governments through epaauthorized state hazardous waste management programs. in view of the scope and complexity of the comprehensive regulatory program  in place. both epa and the states have a monumental task to fully implement the regulations. as withany new program. implementation of the hazardous waste program has brought to light a number of deficiencies or loopholes. two of these loopholes are the focus of the bill that i am joining senator dodd in introducing todaythe hazardous waste identification improvement act. later this week i intend to introduce legislation to address a number of other gaps in coverage under the current rcra program. the provisions of the hazardous waste identification improvement act contain provisions relating to listing and delisting of hazardous wastes. the rcra regulations provide two mechanisms for determining whether a waste is hazardous: a set of characteristics of hazardous waste and a list of specific hazardous wastes. a waste must be managed in accord with rcra regulations if it either exhibits any of the characteristics or if it is listed. epa has developed criteria for identifying the characteristics of hazardous waste and for determining which wastes to list. since the initial identification of characteristics and listing of specific hazardous wastes. epa has  expanded the set of characteristics  added significantly to the list of hazardous wastes. even dioxie of the most toxic substances kn to manhas  been added to the list. one section of the harardous waste identification improvement act requires epa within 2 years to identify additional characteristics of hazardous waste and add specific wastes to the list of hazardous wastes. the agency must submit to the congress within 6 months a plan outlining their program to meet this requirement. the bill also requires that epa within 6 months promulgate regulations listing dioxinand dibenzofurancontaining wastes as hazardous. the statutory definition of hazardous waste requires epa to make a judgment as to the hazard posed by a waste "when improperly treated. stored. transported or disposed of. or otherwise managed." in waste containing toxic constituents. this hazard is dependent on two factors: the intrinsic hazard of the constituents of the waste. and the release of the constituents to the environment under conditions of improper management. one provision of this bill would require epa with the national toxicology program to evaluate the feasibility of determining whether the presence of certain constituents (such as kn carciens) at levels substantially in excess of levels commonly agreed to affect health may cause wastes to be hazardous per se. a waste is identified as hazardous either because it exhibits one of the characteristics or because it appears on the list of hazardous wastes. both particular wastes and sources or classes of waste streams may appear on the list. epa has chosen to emphasize waste streams in addition to specific hazardous substances because industrial wastes tend to be complex mixtures. containing many different constituents. only some of which may exhibit hazardous characteristics. individual waste streams may vary depending on raw materials. industrial processes and other factors. thus. while a waste stream listed by epa may be hazardous. a specific waste from an individual facility may  be. for this reason. the rcra regulations contain a mechanism for demonstrating that a specific waste from a particular facility should  be included in the regulatory control program. the delisting process. as it is called. allows petitioners. and/or individual hazardous waste generators. the opportunity of showing that their waste is significantly different from listed wastes of the same type. if the proper showing is made. epa can exclude from regulation as a hazardous waste the specific waste from a particular f acllity. what the regulations do  adequately address is that all of the constituents in a waste stream may  have been taken into consideration when the waste was originally listed. or in some treatment process. additional wastes may  have been rendered sufficiently hazardous. or these wastes contain dangerous elements which still have  been listed by epa as hazardous. current epa regulations do  allow the agency to reject a delisting petition if the petitioners waste contains hazardous constituents in addition to those for which it was originally listed. this is a growing problemas more and more delisting petitions are being submitted to epa for action. to address this problem. the bill gives epa the authority to consider additional constitutents or other relevant factors when evaluating a delisting petition. if the agency has reason to believe that there are additional hazardous constituents present in the waste in potentially significant concentrations. they can ask the petitioner to demonstrate that is is  the case. after sufficient comment period for the petititoner. epa has the right to grant or deny a delisting petition based  only on the original constituent for which the waste was listed. but also on any additional hasardous constituents. i will work with the committee on environment and public works to consider this bill along with other amendments to the resource conservation and recovery act.e by mr. hatfield:
. today i am introducing legislation to strengthen the solid waste disposal act as amended by the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976 (rcra). last year the committee on environment and public works had to postpone until this year completing action on these amendments. we are anxious to take action on rcra quickly to put in place the strengthening provisions contained in this years bill. i am keenly interested in strengthening the national hazardous waste management program. the emotion raised by the mere mention of hazardous waste has escalated our concern to the point that hazardous waste is one of the most critical environmental problems of this decade. i fear we are only just beginning to discover the magnitude and extent of the problems which improper disposal of hazardous wastes have caused. only through proper disposal in the future can we avoid continuing and exacerbating the hazardous waste dilemma. and it is a dilemmaas an industrial. technical society. we manufacture products through processes which produce byproducts and wastes which may pose a threat to public health and the environment. unless we safely handle or dispose of these waste products we threaten the society which supports the sales and use of the primary products. our choice is to stop manufacture or to control the disposal of these wastes in a manner that is protective of both public health and the environment. as a society we have chosen the latter. this is where rcra comes ina strong. aggressive program on the management of hazardous waste from generation to disposal. recognizing the growing problem of hazardous waste in this country. in 1976 the congress enacted rcra. rcra provides for the establishment of national programs for the regulation of hazardous wastes from generation through transportation. storage or treatment. to disposal. intended to follow hazardous waste from cradle to grave. rcra provides the framework for a comprehensive regulatory program for management of hazardous waste which is protective of human health and the environment. adding to this initiative. the congress in 1980 enacted the comprehensive environmental response. compensation and liability actor superfundto address the environmental problems posed by uncontrolled hazardous waste sites and spills of hazardous materials. progress in implementing the hazardous waste management program has been slower than the congress intended. although parts of the regulatory program have been in place for some time. epa promulgated the last of the core rcra regulations last year and implementation of the entire program can  proceed in earnest. implementation of the components of the regulatory program has brought to light a number of areas where the act did  provide sufficient guidance. where the regulatory approach has gaps in coverage. or where loopholes have been discovered. the purpose of the bill i am introducing today is to address these issues. the solid waste disposal act amendments of 1983 strengthen the act by providing a much stronger. more comprehensive regulatory framework for epa. by giving greater incentives to the agency to move aggressively to implement full coverage of this act and move toward a better prioritization of hazardous waste man agement strategies. in developing these amendments to rcra. we have received comments and guidance from a wide variety of individuals. representing federal and state government. the environmental community. the public. hazardous waste generators. transporters. and disposers. the bill represents the best of the information we have received. during april. i plan to hold hearings on this bill so that we can further refine the bill and move it to full committee for consideration. as i have said previously. it is my hope. and that of chairman starord. that we can report this bill from the committee expeditiously. the administration is considering transmitting to the congress a bill to strengthen rcra. i can comment on this bill yet. but the subcommittee on environmental pollution will consider it when we hold hearings. the solid waste disposal act amendments of 1983 authorize funding for the current year and for fiscal year 198487 for carrying out the provisions of the act. historically. rcra has been authorized for 2 years at a time because it was a new program and congress sought to scrutinize it frequently to assure that implementation complied with intent. in an effort to provide stability and continuity. i have included a 4year authorization. this will also give the states a source of continued funding at higher levels as they begin to take over the most complex and difficult components of the rcra program. i will briefly describe the major provisions of the bill. because the most controversial issue in the rcra amendments last year related to small quantity generators. i want to discuss in detail the provisions relating to those generators. we have revised last years provision and developed a phased program to bring generators of hazardous wastes in quantities of less than 1.000 kilograms per month into the rcra regulatory program for the first time.
. i ask that a summary of its major provisions be printed in the record. i am hopeful that the senate will join us in exploring ways to fulfill the conservation role that we k this country and its wildlife managers. scientists. and its general citizenry are capable of playing.
. as chairman of the authorizing subcommittee which has jurisdiction over the endangered species act. i would just like to add that i have worked closely on developing this provision with my good friend from wyoming [senator wallop]. senator wallop has correctly stated the intent of the provision. i do want to emphasize. however. that it is  within the meaning or intent of this provision to abrogate or supplant the requirements of the endangered species act. the subcommittee on environmental pollution will be reviewing the act when the current authorization for appropriations expires next year and will consider what. if any. changes in the program may be warranted at that time. i do share my colleagues deep concern over potential conflicts between the needs of endangered or threatened species and the use of water rights. it is my hope that the working group outlined in this legislation will be successful in finding ways to avoid or resolve conflicts that may arise.
madam president. i am pleased to present to the senate the conference report on h.r. 2867. the solid and hazardous waste amendments of 1984. when we last addressed this matter on july 25. 1984. the senate unanimously approved s. 757. the solid waste disposal act amendment of 1984. the bill before us today is a conference substitute for s. 757 and for the original version of h.r. 2867. to my mind. madam president. we have taken the best of both bills and pro. duced a piece of legislation that we can all be proud of. it is a tough bill designed to deal with a tough problem: the control of hazardous waste. in 1976. the resource conservation and recovery act ercra) was enacted as an amendment to the solid waste disposal act. subtitle c of rcra established this nations basic hazardous waste management system. that law. and the amendments we are considering today. are designed to assure the people of this nation that the generation. handling. storage. treatment. transportation and disposal of hazardous waste in this country is regulated and controlled in a manner that protects both human health and the environment. the importance of this law and the need for such assurances can only be
 reagan and prime minister mulroney regarding acid rain. once again. the administration has taken the bold step of proposing further study of acid rain. this ion of more study is contrary to findings of every single report on the impact of acid rain on the streams and waterways of the theast. a report released earlier this year concluded that four out of five of my states cleanest waterways are either dying or being endangered by acid rain. in at least two of these acid levels are high egh to kill fish. but even with these kinds of statistics and others from vermont. new york. maine. and new hampshire. the solution we are offered is further study. it is a major disappointment to me that any action by the congress will apparently be opposed by the administration as being unnecessary until this new study is completed. last year the environment and public works committee reported clean air amendments that would have reduced sulphur emissions by about 40 percent over 10 years in 31 eastern states. once again. this year i predict that similar legislation will be reported from our committee. i fervently wish the administration would support it. i want to include at this point in my .statement a copy of the article from the providence journal which summarizes the findings of the rhode island survey.
i commend both senator stafford and senator domenici for reaching this understanding. as one who is deeply concerned about the prevalence of hazardous waste dumps throughout the united states. with my own state of rhode island having its share of such sites. i am extremely anxious that the superfund program be extended and enlarged without hitch well prior to its expiration date on september 30. 1985.
the senator is correct. i might add. . that this matter has been discussed at some length among the members of the environment and public works committee. the committee has corresponded with the administrator of epa. and we are informed that the agency has the authority to enter into the agreement as set forth in the amendment.
. one of my top priorities as chairman of the subcommittee on environmental pollution is to have a bill extending the endangered species act (esa]. one of the worlds strongest and most important environmental laws. passed by the congress and signed into law. as we make progress in our efforts to clean up our rivers and toxic dumps. we must  lose sight of the need to maintain biological diversity. that is what the esa is all about. earlier this year we held several hearings in washington. dc. to examine how well the act is working. during the first week of july. we continued this process with -a hearing in montana to review the. plight of the grizzly bear in the thern continental divide ecosystem. the -grizzly is classified under the esa as a threatened species in the lower 48 states. since the bear is the subject of some controversy in both the yellowstone ecosystem and the thern ecosystem. i .spent several days in montana meeting and talking about grizzlies with experts from the u.s. park. fish and wildlife. and forest services. as well as the montana fish and wildlife department.. representatives from environmental groups. backcountry guides. local landowners. ranchers. and businessmen also had an opportunity to explain how they thought the law was working. and whether the grizzly bear -is making .a comeback. in the thern ecosystem. as you k. the goal of the esa is recovery. after identifying a particular species as endangered or threatened. we work on improving the habitat and health of that species so that it can exist on its own without the need for management under the act. in contrast to what i discovered about grizzlies in the. yellowstone ecosystem 2 years ago. the news from montana and the thern continental divide ecosystem is encouraging. we are making significant progress. the ability and willingness of people in that area to coexist with this majestic. albeit powerful and potentially fierce. animal are living examples of a true conservation ethic. unfortunately. the eiistence of some "nuisance" bears is a reality. people living 40 or 50 miles away from what is generally recognized as "bear habitat" occasionally need to have government officials trap or kill a particular bear that is threatening their families and homes. this doesnt happen often but when it does the government should respond quickly in an attempt to trap and relocate the bear to an area where he can do harm and will  be harmed. only as an absolute last resort. after several relocation have failed. do officials even consider killing the problem bear. this is as it should be. government officials and other experts are  working on various test methods to make grizzlies more wary of people. these experts should be encouraged to continue such tests because. if they are successful. the number of conflicts between humans and bears will decrease and the need to trap and relocate grizzlies will also decrease. this report on grizzlies in montana is upbeat. the esa is working well and the bear is doing well. with the assistance of trained. responsive government officials. people can peacefully coexist with grizzly bears. the law does  need to be changed and i will continue to work for extension of this important law. the endangered species act.e
. thebill is clearly related to any comprehensive acid rain control strategy we develop in congress. we can continue to let things stand as they are on the acid rain issue. each day aher 100.000 tons of sulfur dioxide go into the atmosphere eventually landing in our water and on our soil. the national academy of sciences has estimated that acid rain is costing us billions of dollars through the destruction of buildings. vegetation. and water. in rhode island. where our citizens pay high electric rates for clean fuel and less emissions. we are drenched with acid rain from upwind states. where the neutral level of acidity in water is 7 on the ph scale our rainfall is at about 4 which is highly acidic and is threatening many of our lakes and streams. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. it will  solve the acid rain problem by itself but it will bring us closer to eliminating much of the harmful pollution causing the problem.
. as we consider this landmark bill to reauthorize superfund. and to recommit the nation to addressing the dangers of toxic wastes. we must  make the mistake of focusing our attention entirely on remedying problems created in the past. we must look to the future as well. and be mindful that hazardous waste management facilities. if  properly operated. can create new dangers. new harm to human health and the environment. and new superfund sites that will have to be remedied by future generations. one of the most important protections we have authorized in our national environmental legislation has been the requirement that those engaged in the business of hazardous waste generation and disposal demonstrate adequate financial responsibility for their potential liability. those assurances are absolutely vital to the integrity of epas program under the resource conservation and recovery act. and yet. i am troubled by the present lack of any meaningful environmental impairment liability insurance. and the dilemma created by epas blind insistance that owners and operators of hazardous waste facilities obtain such insurance. this situation is undermining the rcra program. and it may prove to be the achilles heel of the superfund program. if responsible. well operated facilities can meet epas current financial responsibility regulations. they may have to cease their operations. and we longer can be confident that adequate disposal capacity will be available for either rcra or superfund wastes. in addition. those few insurance policies which are available to the hazardous waste industry do  adequately protect inent victims exposed to toxic wastes. epa is well aware of this situation. most eil insurance policies today contain exclusions that would prevent the coverage. for instance. of claims for genetic damage. and claims arising out of the facilitys compliance with laws and regulations. even when such compliance is unintentional and technical in nature. these are gaping loopholes in the policies. and they are only a few examples of the many ways an insurer could escape liability. if his insured is unable to pay. inent victims will suffer. in the hazardous and solid waste amendments of 1984. congress took two important steps to address this dilemma. first. in section 3004(t)(1) congress authorized facility owners and operators to use any one. or a combination. of mechanisms to provide assurance of their- financial responsibility. these include  only insurance. but also guarantees. surety bonds. letters of credit. and self insurance. given the current eil insurance crisis. these are important and legitimate mechanisms. epa has  taken steps to change its regulations and authorize all of these various mechanisms. it is iging the mandates of the rcra statute. and thereby threatening the existence of waste disposal capacity on which the superfund program will depend in the years ahead. the agency must promptly amend its regulations and conform them to the statute before the ember 8. 1985 rcra deadline falls. second. in the same section of rcra (3004(t)(1)). congress authorized epa to close the loopholes in insurance contracts. that section empowers the administrator to specify policy or other contractual terms. conditions. or defenses which are necessary or are unacceptable to effectuate the purposes of rcra. it is time epa assumed the leadership in this area that congress -intended. the regulations should be revised to incorporate those restrictions for at least the loopholes of which epa presently is aware.e
s plan will do little to solve the problem. it is little more than a plan for more studies. acceptance of the special envoys plan will  reduce the pressure to adopt concrete programs to curb the damage. we k egh to act and must act to reduce pollution that causes acid rain. since we first developed acid rain control legislation in 1979 and 1980. report after report has proven the case for imposition of controls. a report released early last year concluded that four out of five of rhode islands cleanest waterways are either dying or being endangered by acid rain. at least two have acid levels high egh to kill fish. a report released last week by the national academy of sciences concluded that a "causal relationship" does link sulfur emissions from the burning of fossil fuels with acid rain and increased levels of acid in lakes and streams. the bill we are introducing today is based on scientific evidence that has been developed since 1979. this new information tells us  only that our original proposals were sound but that we were being too conservative. this new bill is a departure from earlier proposals in several important respects. first. this bill attempts to control a variety of air pollutants in a variety of ways. in the past. attention in both the congress and the press has focused on one specific pollutantsulfur dioxide. but the great research progress weve made in the past years has  only made the case against sulfur dioxide more convincing. but implicated other airborne chemicals as well. therefore. this bill proposes reductions  only of sulfur dioxide. but also oxides of nitrogen. ozone. hydrocarbons. and carbon moide. second. the focus of this bill is  only on the damage which acid rain and other air pollution is doing to lakes and streams. but also on soils. forests. crops. building materials. and human health. there is little. if any. doubt that all of these are  at risk in the debate over what is conventionally referred to as "acid rain". third. because the bill attempts to deal with more .pollutants and more damages. it also would cover the entire united states.  just a region. previous bills have suggested that control efforts be limited to a certain number of states. but evidence  shows that our concerns should be continental.  regional. finally. the bill does  rely on any given techogy or approach.  does it suggest that the total pollution reductions should be a set amount. previous bills have suggested a reduction of 8. 10. or even 12 million tons of sulfur dioxide emissions as a target. this bill suggests .that instead of establishing a specific number. the nation should commit itself to curbing pollution as much as possible through approaches which already exist. in that sense. this bill is a true "state of the art" proposal. for example. the pollution produced by many american powerplants could be cut in half by either switching to clean american coal or installing devices already in operation in countries like japan. similarly. if all cars sold in the united states were as clean as 25 percent of the models  being built and soldbuilt and sold by united states companies. i might add.  just their japanese or european competitorsacidbased and other air pollution would drop dramatically. for 7 years. the congress has been engaged in a debate called acid rain. with the common belief that the pollutants are new and so are the arguments. in fact. both the pollutants and the debates are echoes from the 1960s and the 1970s and even earlier. what has changed since then is the level of scientific certainty. acid rain  only can but has killed lakes and streams. as well as other damage. one scientific report after aher has made this so clear that if the congress were a court of law. the jury could have difficulty returning a verdict of guilty. it has become increasingly clear that more is at stake here than just lakes and streams. the congress thought 16 years ago that the stakes were the trees. crops. and very lives of americans. and on that basis we enacted the clean air act. today science has indicated that those judgments of 16 years ago were  only correct. but that the congress did  go far egh. muchmuch moreis  needed. and the acid rain debate has made this clear. we have made great progress in the united states chiefly because of laws enacted in the 1970s to meet challenges which arose in the 1950s and 1960s. this is a new era and it demands new solutions. " that is what this bill suggests: all powerplants should be as clean as those few which  utilize the fuels and techogy of 1986. all cars and trucks should be as clean as the few built with the computers and engines of 1986. and all citizens should be protected from the pollution produced by these smokestacks and exhaust pipes.
i want to associate myself with what the distinguished chairman of the environment and public works committee. which has jurisdiction over nepa. has said. i am very concerned about an exemption from nepa for public works projects and i also want assurance from my distinguished colleagues that this project is  beng exempted from the nepa process.
. the problem of ozone depletion. the greenhouse effect. and climate change have  yet been elevated to the same level of public awareness as toxic waste or acid rain. nevertheless. that is changing and. as more and more people become aware ofand concerned about--oone depletion and climate change. we will be held accountable. by giving our advice and consent to ratification of the vienna convention for the protection of the ozone layer. we are taking a small but important initial step toward solving the ozone depletion problem.
s council appreciated the fact that there will fact. on environmental quality who worked always be scientific uncertaintly and although the problems of strato- as a chemist for 26 years. has said. that policymakers and those who spheric ozone depletion. the green- "we can afford to give chemicals make regulatory decisions can house effect. and climate change have the same constitutional rights that we allow themselves to be paralyzed by  yet been elevated to the same level enjoy under the law * * * chemicals these gaps in kledge. of public awareness as toxic waste or are  inent until proven guilty." sure. we can continue to study the acid rain. more and more people are by  making policy choices today. problemand we should continue our becoming aware ofand concerned by sticking. to a "wait and see" ap- studiesbut we can wait until aboutozone modification and climate proach. we may in fact be making a these studies are completed. we need change. the press that these issues passive choice. by allowing the so- action. have received in the past few months called "greenhouse" gases to continue those who argue against action like is evidence of mounting awareness and to build up in the atmosphere. this to recite the caveats. uncertainties. concern. there have been stories and generation may be committing all of and margins of error that accompany editorials in newspapers across this us to severe ecoic and environmen- scientific reports and projections in country. canada. and europe. national tal disruption without ever having de- this area. for those people. it is worth television. radio. and magazines like cided that the value of "business as hing that the margins of error usunewsweek and the new yorker. usual" is worth the risks. ally associated with the greenhouse in june of this year. the senate sub- those who believe that these are effect are in terms of only decades. committee on environmental pollu- problems to be dealt with by future the issues of magnitude and timing tion. which i chair. conducted 2 days generations are misleading themselves. need to be resolved but they do  of hearings to explore the nature of mans activities to date may have al- need to be resolved before we take these problems and to examine what is ready committed us to some level of action. it is important to talk about being done by the u.s. government. temperature change. if historical evi- projections of. for example. global domestically and internatinally. to dence is any guide. a slight warming warming over the next 50 to 100 years. both improve our understanding. of may be egh to turn productive. but disagreement over the accuracy of these matters and to respond to them. temperate climates into deserts. to projections for that timeframe obscure -. why did. we decide to spend quote from a -recent department of. the issue: do we have the right to poltime on these problems. why is all of energy report. "large changes in both lute the atmosphere today in a
. i would like to discuss with senators garn and leahy the manner in which this continuing resolution. hodse joint resolution 738. addresses the problems of stratospheric ozone depletion. the greenhouse effect and climate change. this resolution incorpo-
. under the leadership of the chairman of the committee on environment and public works.  worked long and hard for this legislation. despite innumerable obstacles. he never gave up hope or slackened in his tireless efforts to achieve the goal of a new. improved superfund. for months and months. the conference meetings went on and on. at each and every meetingsmall private sessions or large public meetingshe was there. anyone who cares about this program is indebted to the senior senator from vermont. a gentleman in the truest sense of the word. approval of this legislation today will put into place a new. improved superfund program. assuming enactment of this bill. we will have a new law that corrects many of the prob-. les- and weaknesses that have been discovered since superfund was first created in 1980. for example. the conferees have agreed to add to the law and this legislation includes the following key provisions: funding: the program is extended for 5 years at a level of $8.5 billionan increase of more than fivefold over the old law which provided only $1.6 billion for the first 5 years. underground tanks: a new program to clean up leaking underground storage tanks is established. funded at $500 million over 5 years. this program is designed to address problems such as those that plagued ca park in rhode island. community right to k: a new program requiring companies using more than 25.000 pounds of toxic chemicals to disclose and develop emergency plans for 400 such toxic chemicals is added. i schedules: the epa is required by law to begin at least 375 cleanups within 5 years. health: the federal government is required to conduct health studies at all superfund sites and to conduct laboratory tests of at least 275 of the most dangerous chemicals found at sites. citizen suits: citizens are given an express right to sue to force the federal government to perform mandatory duties imposed under the law. victims rights: language is included which gives victims of toxic chemicals relief from restrictive state statute of limitation laws. many of which require an individual to initiate a lawsuit within a few years of exposure to a toxic substance even though the effects of exposure may  show up for decades. under the new law. the statute of limitations will run from the time an individual discovers there is a cause of action for suit. rather than from the time of actual exposure. . cleanup standards: rigorous new environmental cleanup standards which will require the environmental protection agency to comply with other federal environmental standards in cleaning up toxic waste sites and which will. in many cases. require that epa adhere to tougher state standards where a state has more stringent regulations are added by the bill. this deals with the issue of how clean is clean. in the context of this provision. epa will be required to remove contaminated dirt at the picillo dump site in coventry. this provision was added at my insistence after the state of rhode island was forced by epa to go to court last december in an effect to get epa to remove the contaminated dirt. siting of hazardous waste facilities: a new provision that i sponsored will require each state to devise a plan within 3 years for the disposal or treatment of the toxic wastes generated within the state. the objective is to force states to provide safe and adequate facilities for toxic and hazardous waste. states will be allowed to pool their resources to provide joint disposal or treatment facilities. states failing to comply will lose the right to all but emergency cleanup funds from the superfund. these are tough. realistic provisions that make major improvements to the superfund law. they are significant changes that will improve the governments ability to respond to problems presented by toxics that are released or threatened to be released into the environment and will force the government to upgrade the quality and permanent nature of its responses. this legislation will also provide citizens living near these sites with the tools needed to assure that these sites are being properly and adequately cleaned up. for example. epa will longer be able to argue that they can ige rhode islands more stringent clean up standards at the picillo site in coventry. new cleanup standards designed to answer the question. "how clean is clean.". will force epa to do more than simply install a fence around the site to keep people away and a cap over the site to keep rain off the site. over the past 5 years. this capping has become epas standard method of cleanup. it has become the rule. it will  be the exception. important legislative history explaining the conference agreement and the statutory language of this legislation is contained in a statement of managers. to supplement that statement of managers. several key points need to be made.
. i wish to thank the chairman of our full committee on environment and public works. senator stafford. the ranking member of the environmental pollution subcommittee senator mitchell and the ranking member of the full committee. senator bentsen for their hard work and diligent efforts to make this legislation possible. i would also like to thank the staff who labored long and hard in putting this legislation together. particularly bob hurley and phil cummings. ron outen. jeff peterson. jimmie powell. steve shlmberg. and all the others who spent long hours and what seemed like endless days of negotiations on the bill.
. the circumstances surrounding the california sea otter are unique. establishment of a second population of these marine mammals is critical to the species continued existence. the translocation effort currently is jeoardized by potential conflicts between the provisions of the endangered species act and the marine mammal protection act. and there is a long and complicated history of conflicts among the interests affected by a translocation of california sea otters. because of these special circumstances. i believe we must go forward with this legislation. we owe it to the california sea otter. translocation of the california sea otter. as provided by h.r. 4531. also is an important step toward the protection and restoration of the southern sea otter within its historic range. what we do here today. hopefully. will show the way for additional efforts on behalf of the southern sea otter in the years ahead.
. as one who has stongly advocated a federal program to control acid rain. i am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing the acid deposition control act of 1987. on monday. january 12. several of us introduced s. 300. the new clean air act. a bill designed mainly to combat the problems of acid rain. these bills are very similar in purpose and scope. they differ primarily in the methods used to achieve and assure reductions in air pollution from powerplants. the bill being introduced today would set stringent emission limits for all states. state implementation plans [sips) would be used to assure that powerplants in each state. taken together. comply with the statewide limits. the other bill. s. 300. would require that each powerplant in every state meet emission limits on a casebycase basis. thus. the bill introduced today takes a statewide approach to emissions. whereas s. 300 assigns standards to each plant. depending upon a variety of factors. both bills set a sliding scale of progressively more stringent limits for powerplants that are going to operate and pollute for many years to come. the longer the life of the powerplant. the cleaner it has to be. this will put an end to the practice of avoiding tough new performance standards simply by extending the life of old dirty plants. both bills would control emissions of sulphur dioxide as well as nitrogen. similarly. both bills deal with the problems of acidic deposition. dry as well as wet. s as well as rain. recognizing that cars and trucks contribute to the problems of acidic deposition. both bills would impose new controls to reduce pollution from these mobile sources. including diesel trucks. it should come as surprise that those of us here today are advocates of an acid rain control program. we have sponsored such legislation in the past and will continue to press the issue. we k egh to act and must act to reduce pollution that causes acid rain. since we first developed acid rain control legislation in 1979 and 1980. report after report has proven the case for imposition of controls. a report released in 1985 concluded that four out of five of rhode islands cleanest waterways are either dying or being endangered by acid rain. at least two have acid levels high egh to kill fish. a report released last year by the national academy of sciences concluded that a "causal relationship" does link sulphur emissions from the burning of fossil fuels with acid rain and increased levels of acid in lakes and streams. the bill we are introducing today and the bill we introduced on monday. s. 300. are based on scientific evidence jahuary 16. 1987 that has been developed since 1979. this new information tells us  only that our proposals in the early 1980s were sound but that we were being too conservative. for 7 years. the congress has been engaged in a debate called "acid rain." with the common belief that the pollutants are new and so are the arguments. in fact. both the pollutants and the debates are echoes from the 1960s and the 1970s and even earlier. what has changed since then is the level of scientific certainty. acid rain has killed lakes and streams. and it continues to cause other damage. one scientific report after aher has made this so clear that. if the congress were a court of law. the jury would have difficulty returning a verdict of guilty. it has become increasingly clear that more is at stake here than just lakes and streams which are adversely affected by acid rain. congress took action 16 years ago .to protect the health of americans. as well as wildlife and plant life. by enacting the clean air act. today. science has indicated that those judgments of 16 years ago were  only correct. but that the congress did  go far egh. moremuch moreis  needed. and the acid rain debate has made this clear. we have made great progress in the united states chiefly because of laws enacted in the 1970s to meet challenges which arose in the 1950s and 1960s. this is a new era and it demands new solutions. these bills would require that: all powerplants should ultimately be as cleanas those few which  utilize the fuels and techogy of 1987. all new cars and trucks should be as clean as techogy allows them to be built. all citizens should be protected from the pollution produced by dirty smoke stacks and exhaust pipes. together. these two new bills. the mitchell acid deposition control act of 1987 and s. 300. the stafford new clean air act. set the stage for enactment of an acid rain control bill during these next 2 years. the committee hearings and debate will focus on these bills. i urge all of our colleagues to examine these bills and to cosponsor one or both of them. either one would be effective but at least one of them is needed. i am confident that under the diligent. able leadership of senators mitchell and stafford. we will break the impasse that has prevented enactment of an acid rain control bill so far.
. id like to add that 11 states. including my own state of rhode island. have banned the sale of degradable sixpack holders. other states include connecticut. delaware. maine. massachusetts. new york. new jersey. oregon. vermont. california. and alaska. my second bill addresses a major source of plastic pollution: plastic garbage intentionally dumped from oceangoing vessels. this bill creates domestic legislation which implements the provisions of annex v of the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships. commonly kn as marpol. this approach. endorsed by the coast guard. would make it illegal for ships operating in u.s. waters to intentionally dump plastic garbage. according to the epa study. most of the plastic debris in the marine environment comes from ocean sources. that amount is estimated at 6.4 million metric tons per year. while accidental loss of plastic items from ocean sources contributes to the problem of debris. deliberate disposal at sea is a greater problem. the united states is expected to ratify marpol annex v within the next few weeks. my bill will assure that domestic legislation implementing the provisions of this important annex will be enacted without delay. companion legislation implementing annex v has already been introduced in the house of representatives by
. the endangered species act is one of our most important environmental laws. the time has come for us to review it. if need be to debate it. and to pass a bill extending the authority to fund it. people care about this law and it is our job to see that it is extended.*
. introduction of this bill is a significant event. we are leading the committee on environment and public works into an area where it has  ventured in the past. the issues are important ones for all of us. i urge every member of the senate to review this bill and to join us as a cosponsor.*
. i want to echo the point that the distinguished senator made about us being trustees of this earth. we do  have a mandate to wreck this world. it is our duty. particularly coming from the richest. strongest. and most profligate nation. in many respects. on earth. to pass this globe on. to the extent we can.  only in as good as shape as we found it but in better shape. unfortunately. that is  happening with the release of these cfcs. we truly are destroying the ozone layer. this effort we are making today is to encourage the united states to continue its position at the international negotiations. it will be a step toward restoring or preventing further deterioration of the ozone layer. the distinguished senator from th carolina is here and has some questions which. i will be glad to answer on my time.
as you recall. they. talked about the total column of ozone. it depends on where the depletion is. the total column. the senator is quite right. has  changed. but where the ozone is located has changed. in other words. it has increased in the lower atmosphere where really it is sort of a hazard but in the upper stratosphere where it does act as a shield to ultraviolet rays.* it has deplete d some 2 percent in the testimony we have. .... furthermore. the rate of the increase in the depletion is the frightening part.
. i am pleased that the managers of the bill were willing to work with the several members who are concerned about this provision. including the chairman of the committee on environment and public works.
. this is an addition on page 78. at the end of line 15. some language dealing with the global protection act of 1987. it would add charges to the task force that primarily increase its obligation to deal with international organizations in considering how to handle the greenhouse effect and the climatic changes that are coming about in the world. this amendment has been cleared by both sides and all those parties who are interested in it. and i believe it is acceptable. as i say. the stress is on cooperation with international organizations. because it is my belief that the united states can go it alone in trying to do something about the ozone effect and the greenhouse effect. curbing the cfcs and other activities. we need international cooperation.
. i have some reserva. tions about how well this new inter. agency task force will work. as with any interagency effort. by formalizing the process we run the risk of driving agencies apart at the exact moment when they should be coming together. turf battles and decisionmaking by committee can paralyze an otherwise productive effort. this is particularly true where. as here. we are dealing with a complex scientific phee that has important policy implications in areas that transcend traditional agency mandates. to what extent will the science agencies seek to influence policy choices. similarly. will the policy agencies seek to control the science. this is a problem and we can only imagine what pitfalls lie ahead. to prevent this task force from becoming a clone of the national acid precipitation assessment program [napapi. the group that produces good science that is prompty iged by policy officials who do  want to address the problems of acid rain. and to prevent a repeat of the: domestic process that threatened to undermine the role of the united states as a world leader at 4 crucial point in the: ozone negotiations. we have put this group on a fairly short leash. the sunset provision will allow us the opportunity to pull the plug if the task force becomes too politicized. in an attempt to avoid this problem. the bill specifies who shall serve on the task force. we can expect to enact this bill. sit back. and wait for the report to show up. this project will require constant attention. oversight. and guidance from those of us in the congress who are concerned about these problems. as a senior member of the committee on environment and public works. the committee with primary jurisdiction over the greenhouse effect. i plan to continue our work in this area and to make sure that the task force effort is a success.
. in conclusion. we can expect to enact this bill. sit back and wait for the report to show up. this project will require constant attention. oversight and guidance from those of us in the congress who are concerned about these problems. as a senior member of the committee on environment and public works. the committee with primary jurisdiction over the greenhouse effect. i plan to continue our work in this area and to make sure that this effort is a success.
that is a sentiment i share. im  certain exactly what must be done but it is incumbent on the united states to take a leadership role. among other things. we could certainly finish what was started with the montreal protocol and commit the world to reductions of these chemicals that go beyond 50 percent. as i have said before. virtual elimination of these harmful chemicals should be our goal. but we cant stop there. we should also start doing what we can to reduce gases other than the ozone depleters. why cant we put a limit on emissions of carbon dioxide. for example.
. the destruction of the earths ozone layer is a global disaster. there is longer any reason to doubt that manmade chemicals are responsible for it and that it is within our power. indeed it is our responsibility. to reverse this deadly trend as quickly as possible. there are several things that we can and must do. first. we need to convince the rest of the world to ratify the montreal agreement. this new evidence should be used by the united states and by the united nations environment programme to launch a massive diplomatic mission to accelerate the ratification process. it is important to keep in mind that the agreement does  take effect until it is ratified by 11 countries representing twothirds of the worlds cfc production. this means that. in addition to the united states. the major producing countries in the european ecoic community as well as japan must ratify the treaty before it enters into force. i have heard disturbing reports that several of these countries. such as the united kingdom and france. are in hurry and may  act to approve the treaty in the near future. in short. all we have today is a piece of paper with legal force. second. there is absolutely rational reason to delay an emergency meeting of all interested parties to reassess the adequacy of the montreal protocol. the fact that the protocol calls for such a meeting in 1990 is  a sufficient reason to delay. the provision for a 1990 reassessment did  anticipate that such shocking new evidence would appear so soon. under the terms of the agreement as it is currently written. industrialized countries will have to freeze consumption and production of cfcs and then gradually reduce consumption by 50 percent over the next 11 years. the united states had been seeking a 95percent reduction but. based on the evidence available last september. theother countries would  go along with reductions beyond 50 percent. this new evidence shows that a mere 50percent reduction will  protect the ozone layer. aher problem with the treaty is the fact that. even when it does go into effect. industrialized countries will be allowed to increase the use of cfcs between  and the turn of the century. similarly. those countries that do  sign on are free to do as they wish and the only penalties they will face are extremely mild trade sanctions. finally. we have to be ready to impose new. more stringent requirements in this country to eliminate lhe u.s. contribution to the problem. production controls alone will  suffice. especially if those controls do  go beyond a 50percent reduction. for several years. many of us have been chastizing the scientific community for  being bold. for  speaking out when there was a problem. for constantly saying more study is needed. instead of calling for action. let us recognize that the group of 100 scientists can be criticized for sugar coating the ozone depletion report. they have told us in clear. unequivocal terms that we have a major problem and that we have to act. it is our responsibility to rise to this challenge.
. it is my hope that s. 1986. as reported by the environment committee and amended. can be quickly approved by the senate. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this muchneeded and overdue legislation.e
. i would like to inquire of the distinguished chairman of the committee on environment and public works as to whether or  it is his understanding that the declaration of navigability for the gravesend bay of brooklyn. ny which is contained in the committee amendment. in any way waives requirements for either section 10 or section 404 permits.
ial cf.ndidates to endorse this proposal and. if possible. to make it part of the party niatform. it is also time to recognize the tre. mendous importance of global pollution and the problem of global climate change due to the greenhouse effect and destruction of the ozone layer. for that reason. i believe that we must reorganize epa and create an office or division dedicated to working on those problems.*
speaking in toronto i at the first world conference on i changing atmosphere. prime minister . brundlandt. of way. called for a t treaty to stabilize the earths atmost phere and prewc at further degrada- tion. she accurately ed that "[tihe impact of climate change may be -greater and more drastic than any - challenges mankind has faced with the exception of nuclear war." she - went on to say that [flor our - common future. drastic action has to s be taken." prime minister mulroney. i of canada. delivered a similar speech.  reagan. i ask unanimous consent that the letter and the administrations response be printed in the record following the two press articles.
 to call an international convention on the greenhouse effect. as there was an international convention on the ozone layer. which came forth with some excellent recommendations which are being carried out. we are all riding on the same globe. it is the spaceship earth. i think we should do what we can to preserve it for the future.
. the endangered species act is one of our most important environmental laws and i think it is necessary for all of us to recognize that and to remember it. the time has come for us to review it. debate it. and pass a bill extending the authority to fund it. people care about this law and it is our job as elected senators to see that it is extended. i urge my colleagues to vote for it and against any weakening amendments that may be offered today.
. if we should adopt this amendment. the development of recovery plans for endangered species would really be stymied. in 1978. 10 years ago. an amendment similar to that being offered by the senator from idaho was adopted here and added ecoic considerations to the listing process for endangered species. four years later. by 1982. we found the prc. -s for the listing had become so cr . ased and so bogged down in this et ic analysis that it simply ground the whole process to a halt. the lesson that we learned is this: if you want to tie the endangered species program up into ks and stop the protection of species. take decisions that are meant to be based solely on biology and mix in a few requirements for ecoic analysis and you have chaos. and that is what happened. so we changed the law i. 1982. just 4 years after we adopted it. we realized what had happened and we changed the law to correct that problem. in my judgment. it would be a great mistake to repeat those errors that we made in 1978 th nt we had to correct 4 years later and start down the whole path all over again. for these reasons. i oppose the senators amendment. i hope that he would consider withdrawing it. i certainly would urge him to do so.
. before we move to passage. i would like to take a minute to thank the distinguished senator from maine. and the chairman of the subcommittee of the environment committee that handles this for his leadership in this matter. he has given constant attention to all environmental matters in that committee. he is one of the great environmentalists in the u.s. senate. and  only believes in it. talks about it. but achieves passage of legislation as we are seeing here today. i want to extend my thanks to him both personally and for the whole nation for what -he has done.
madam president. i likewise want to salute the distinguished junior senator from new york. we had the mayor of new york come down and testify before the environment and public works committee. his thesis was that this is ridiculous. what do you expect us to do with this. you can pass all the laws you want. but there is way in the world we can stop ocean dumping because we have place else to put it. so it placed the distinguished senator from new york and his colleagues in a very difficult dilemma. i personally am convinced that new yorki am talking new york citycan do something constructive within the 3% years that we are giving them under this legislation. it is going to be expensive. i think they have to receive every bit of attention and assistance that we are able to give them. the trouble with this business is you go up one alley. you choose one solution. and frequently that solution is detrimental to aher. for example. the suggestion is the city of new york. all right. they will try to meet the requirements that we have levied on themthat by january 1. 1992. there will longer be ocean dumping. and therefore they will  do anything about what we call the combined sewer overflow problem. that is. their big sewers that currently take the rufs from the streets and shoot it into the river. if we absorb their money in order to meet the handling of this sludge. then they will have money for the other problems. which in itself is a pollutant problem. or if indeed they go to the incineration of the sludge. then they create an air problem. and indeed contribute to the greenhouse effect which we are so worried about. but etheless. i think if all of us are mindful of the admonition that the senator from new york gave us. that new york has a problem. we have to recognize it. and we have to be prepared to do anything we can to insist. and in some instances that will involve money. they do  want goodwill. they do  want suggestions. they want money. we have to be cognizant of their problems in order that we just do  create one more great environmental problem as we try to solve the ending of the dumping at the 106mile site. so i want to thank very much the senator from new york for coming aboard on this. it is a difficult problem for him and for his senior colleague. but both of them annced they are for this. and that gives us a great big plus. i might say. if they were  for it. life might be difficult on this floor for the rest of us interested in ending this dumping. so i want to salute the senator from new york. senator damato.
. under the present conditions i send to the desk a resolution. it is presented on behalf of myself. senator buartck. and all the present and past members of the environment committee and including the distinguished occupant of the chair. the distinguished majority leader and. as i mentioned. those who previously served in the committee. including senator simon. i ask for its immediate consideration.
 is serious about environmental protection. he talked about this in his campaign speeches. and he shows that it is more than rhetoric. it was  campaign or rhetoric. lie meant it. despite the very great challenges that lie aheadsolving the acid rain problem: for example. dealing with climate changes. reducing the billions of tons of waste we generatei am optimistic about the future of our environment.  would agree with mewill work with mr. reilly at every turn to help make our land and our air and water clean and safe. so it is a pleastire to join in this support of mr. reillys ination.
i thank the chair. . i believe the schedule for reauthorization of the clean air act as set out by senator baucus is a good one. approving the renewal of this important law by dividing the legislation into separate bills and then going to a marking up on them will enable the committee to proceed in a deliberate and an orderly fashion. the clean air legislation is extremely complicated and we must assure that our work is both thorough and well thought out. to achieve this objective. as has been pointed out. we will hold a series of hearings once the legislation has been introduced. it is imperative. i believe. that we accomplish our work within the timeframe that has been suggested. for those who have  been counting. it has been 1l1 years since clean air amendments were enacted into law. that is the last time we passed any clean air legislation111/2 years ago. we are  7 years late in renewing authorization for air pollution programs. and we are over a year behind the deadline which was established in law for all areas in the country to achieve healthy levels. over a year ago all of the nation was meant to be in compliance with these healthy air standards. this might  be so troubling if existing programs were improving air quality but this plain just is  happening . in 1981. the national committee on air quality. the ncaq. estimated that only 32 counties out of the 3.000plus in our nation would fail to meet the ozone health standards by 1987. as they looked ahead to the future. they said that of the 3.000 counties in the united states. only 32 would  meet these standards by 1987. in fact. by 1988. the data shows that  32 counties but 426 counties are part of attainment areas. and over 100 million people live in those counties. there may be only 426 counties that are  in compliance out of the 3.000. but in those 426 counties live nearly half the population of the united states of america. similarly. it was projected that all 262 metropolitan areas. with the possible exception of los angeles and denver. would attain the carbon moide standards by 1987. in fact. the data shows that two complied. it shows that 50 instead of 2 areas were in compliance 2 areas but 50 metropolitan areas. which is about onequarter of all the metropolitan areas. previously i was talking about ozone standards. that is different from carbon moide standards. these are dry statistics. but we have to remember that the ozone and the carbon moide standards were established to protect peoples health. that is why we passed them. we had testimony in 1987 before our committee and scientific publications since then have supported the need to bring the pollution levels down to the standards. the pollution levels that were established were  ridiculous ones. they were the correct ones. at pollution levels above the standards a variety of people can be affected. who are we talking about. we are talking about children. we are talking about adults who do any form of exercise. we are talking about asthmatics. when we are dealing with carbon moide. it is especially dangerous for those with health problems. i ask that i might have such time as i may need to finish.
 in proposing clean air legislation and by the pledge of the epa administrator. mr. william reilly. to work with congress to obtain a law. the need for legislation is clear. the commitment of the leadership in the senate to enact a bill is strong. and the schedule set out by the environment and public works committee is designed to bring a good bill before the senate by years end. i want to thank the chair
. i commend the senator for his efforts in this in trying to get some kind of a rational. if i might say. basis to establish on what basis the budgets are approved. that is. the workload. it has obviously got to be more than bills considered or bills. in aher commit*tee i am on. the environment committee. something like the clear air bill is one bill but it is a monstrous bill and to equate that-.
 and all of us k. here at home in the u.s.a.. and other countries. such as brazil. k that. one can deny that we have to do a better job right here in the u.s.a. as far as protecting our global environment. so we do  come to the table with clean hands. the threat of global climate change as a result of the greenhouse effect is a good example of this problem. destruction of the amazon. the burning off of the trees and forest and fields. contributes about 7 percent to the total greenhouse effect in the world. by comparison. the u.s.a. is responsible  for 7 percent but 20 percent of the greenhouse effect. we in the u.s.a. must  point fingers at brazil. if we expect to have any credibility with brazil and other developing countries. we must stop the production of chlorofluorocarbons and other chemicals that are destroying the ozone layer. we must work toward controlling acid rain. and reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases. the list of unfinished business in our own backyard goes on and on. we can and should share this technical expertise with any aipril 12. 1989 neighbors or any other nations that would like it. such as brazil. today we are introducing a resolution which will establish three major points. first. it will state that as a matter of united states policy. brazils sovereign authority is  and will  be challenged or questioned. suggestions such as international control or foreign domination of the amazon area are explicitly rejected. second. it provides for the adoption of a united states policy to encourage and support conservation efforts initiated by brazil to protect the amazon forest. in this regard. i personally plan to work closely with our state department and through our state department with the country of brazil over the next few months to identify specific areas where the united states can be helpful to brazil. obviously. the issue of international debt must be addressed. in addition. it may be appropriate and helpful to provide assistance in the form of technical training and the sharing of techogies. finally. the resolution makes it clear that the united states must redouble its efforts to address our own environmental problems stemming from unsound practices in this country. for the benefit of brazilians and all inhabitants of our planet. we need to do a better job of recognizing the factand i hope this comes through to everyonethat this globe we are riding around on is a very small and fragile vessel and all life on earth is interdependent. one on this globe is a mere passenger. we are all part of the crew and as such each of us has a responsibility. we owe it to ourselves. our families. and future generations at home and abroad to do all we can to protect and prevent destruction of our environment. whether we are talking about cleaning up narragansett bay in rhode island or halting destruction of the tropical rain forests in indonesia. nigeria. or brazil. the importance of meeting these problems head on and solving them should be appreciated by everyone.
i certainly am delighted to have a distinguished member of our environment committee on this joint resolution. i thank the distinguished senator from new york. . i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the joint resolution and two recent reports on our trip be printed in the record.
s commitment to a national wetlands policy of "net loss" is aher key element in our strategy to protect these vital ecosystems. i look forward to working with him. epa administrator reilly. and all of those who participated in the conservation foundations recent national wetlands policy forum in an attempt to translate some of the forums recommendations into law. we are tackling a difficult job but one that is extremely important. i urge our colleagues to take the time to review these matters and to lend support to this important work.
. it is for that reason that i voted to table the amendment that was presented by the junior senator from ohio. i believe environmentalists must take responsible positions on environmental matters. when a proposal is  adequately constructed. and poses a significant threat to an important tenet like due process of the law. we should say so. our credibility is an extremely important factor in this chamber. if we wish others to carefully co1i1der our concerns. we must be thorough in evaluating environmental proposals. plenty of difficult matters will come before us in the coming monthsthe clean air act. preservation of wetlands. the clean water act. and reauthorization of the superfund. those of us who are deeply concerned with the environment want to be able to stand up here and have our colleagues say we are responsible in or pursuit of protecting our environment. i think that confidence and respect gives us the best chance of enacting important environmental legislation. i thank the chair. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. states such as florida and south carolina have enacted their own emergency regulations to protect sea turtles. under the terms of the endangered species act. and for the protection and conservation of sea turtles. it is imperative that the federal government uphold and enforce its ted regulations. i hope that senator breauxs amendment which encourages use of teds and sea turtle conservation measures in other nations will further strengthen the u.s. commitment to use of teds to protect these threatened and endangered turtles.
. that the defense department must reach an interagency agreement with the affected states and with epa to set up a framework for the cleanup of these toxic waste sites. . he does  move anybody to the head of the line. as far as the cleanup goes. ody is being kked out. but he says. let us get on with it. because people are dragging their feet. maybe epa. but certainly the defense department has been dragging their feet on doing something about these toxic waste sites on the military bases. . we can argue a little bit with the language. how can we. by legislation. guarantee that the defense department can reach an agreement within a year with epa. suppose epa does  do anything. and if neither does anything. what can we do as far as retribution or punishment on defense or epa that is  covered. but setting that aside. the senator from california has a legitimate complaint. i suspect the point of order is going to be sustained. however. we do have on the floor those senators from the environment committee who are involved with this issue. both those who deal with oversight on superfund and those who deal with rcra. which is also involved with this type of cleanup. i would hope that the senators concerns could be addressed in our committee. in the environment and public works committee. with a hearing so that he could get the defense department people in the committee could then say what is going wrong on these bases. why is hing taking place. i. personally. would say to the senator from california. as the ranking member of that committee. i will do everything 1 can to accommodate these concerns. because they are legitimate and they should be met.
. let me just say that i think that the senator from california was right to pursue this. the arcane mysterious ways that germaneness works unbeknst to me and i think probably unbeknst to everybody here. it seems that once cloture has been invoked everything is germane. but i will  argue with the parliamentarian in how he arrives at those conclusions. all i say is that i hope that on the environment and public works committee we can given some satisfaction in the near future. it probably will  be in september when we come back. but maybe in october. i see some distinguished members of that committee and those who are involved with this type of activity on the floor who chair those subcommittees and i would hope we could. through cooperation. and i k there is a full menu in that committeewe have the clean air bill we are struggling with. we have other matters. indeed. we have rcra we have to deal with. i would hope some time could be set aside for a hearing with the defense people coming in addressing the matter of these superfund sites on military bases. i just want to assure the senator i will do everything i can to be helpful.
i would also be happy to do so. i would hope that the environment and public works committee would focus its attention on this and other environmental compliance problems at federal facilities in the very near future. for my part. i intend to press for prompt consideration of these matters in the committee.
. as everyone ks. i am a terrific supporter of wetlands protection and have been over many. many years. as the senator from louisiana has stated so well.  only is louisiana losing these wetlands. but so are other sections of the countrylouisiana at the highest rate. of course. these ecosystems are some of the most productive and useful land areas in our country. i have long argued in favor of the early identification of significant wetland areas and for increased federal funding for the acquisition. protection and enhancement of these areas. as i mentioned. one disputes that louisiana has a unique problem. . i am a little confused as to exactly what is going on here. just yesterday we had a hearing in which the junior senator from louisiana presented legislation dealing with wetlands. and  we are having this amendment presented to us that involves a lot of jurisdictional problems. as has previously been mentioned. clearly. this is an area in the jurisdiction of the environment and public works committee. ody else. we have jurisdiction over wetlands and are addressing the problems associated with wetland losses. furthermore. there are difficulties that arise from the perspective of the finance committee. i mean. we can call this a fee. but others might well call it a tax. certainly we hve to hear from the members of the finance committee. who are involved with that particular area.
. i have u couple questionsand i k that the distinguished majority leader asked thesebut first of all. i want to say that it seems to me we are putting the cart before the horse here. we are coming up with a fund before we k what to do with it. just yesterday. we had a hearing on the legislation of the junior senator from louisiana. we were there for over 3 hours. seeking to determine what exactly we should do in order to protect the wetlands. it is  clear. how to proceed. this is  the easiest subject in the world. my questions to you are as follows: the environment and public works committee has always had sole jurisdiction over wetlands. as you k. i do  think there is any argument on that on this floor. is it the observation of the senior senator from louisiana. and concurrence. that the environment and public work committee is indeed the sole committee to develop this legislation that i believe you referred to in your amendment as "qualified authorizing legislation".
. this. for any of us on the environment committee. is an anguishing vote because all of us are deeply involved in the preservation of wetlands and have been for many years in attempting to solve the problem. indeed. as i mentioned previously. just yesterday we had a hearing on the bill of the junior senator from louisiana before the environment committee dealing with the preservation of wetlands. but it seems to me there is a procedure that we ought to go through. there is a method of doing business around here. and it should be carefully considered in the committee. this is  a jurisdictional squabble. i think it is unfair to label it as: are vie for the preservation of wetlands or are we for preserving committee jurisdiction. it is  that at all. when we come up with legislation. we want it to be carefully thought out. just as an example. this legislation that is proposed talks about the preservation. enhancement. restoration. or creation of coastal wetlands. well. there are more than coastal wetlands involved in this nation. we are worried about the prairie potholes. we are worried about the inland wetlands that exist. whether they are fresh or saltwater wetlands. this legislation states enhancing. protecting. creating. hing about obtaining or purchasing. clearly any option that is involved in legislation should involve purchasing the wetlands. all of it can be done by protecting. preserving. enhancing. restoring. so that is what we are talking about when we say proceed in a rational manner around here. there is ody more dedicated to the preservation. enhancement. protection. creation. and restoration of wetlands than the members of the ena ugust 3. 1989 august 3. 1989 coin vironment and public works committee. particularly when we think of the situation in louisiana. as was clearly pointed out in very moving testimony by the junior senator from louisiana and the witnesses he had assembled. with maps showing what was happening to louisiana. so we are going to do something about it. but i shall join in the motion to table because i think there is a procedure that should be followed and we will follow it and we will come forward with legislation. certainly whatever influence i have in the committee will be used in that connection.
. s. 804 is supported by the international association of fish and wildlife agencies and by a wide array of private groups. including ducks unlimited. for example. and nature conservancy. which have spent literally millions of dollars in order to protect threatened wetland environments. this legislation encourages and indeed requires that federal groups match federal funds spent on conservation efforts. the enactment of this bill is essential to the success of wetlands restoration efforts under the th american waterfowl management plan. i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this important environmental legislation. it is called the th american wetlands conservation act. s. 804.
 to present. on behalf of the congress. to laurance spelman rockefeller a gold medal in recognition of his seminal role in fostering a new era of natural resource conservation and historic preservation in the united states. i ask my colleagues to join with me to enact this legislation as a tribute to a man who has given so much to his country.* by mr. metzenbaum (for himself and mr. byrd):
. i strongly support s. 804. the wetlands legislation before the senate. the environment and public works committee has worked with the administration. the states. and private conservation groups to make this legislation an effective means of protecting wetland habitats in th america. the cooperative wetlands conservation projects implemented through this act will provide longterm benefits to migratory waterfowl and other species of fish and wildlife which depend on these habitats. i would like to make reference to my previous remarks on this legislation as they present a more indepth description of s. 804. my statement is printed in the ember 1. 1989. congression-
i want to thank the chair. first i want to commend the senator from nevada for his statement. he. as has been mentioned. is a valuable member of the environment committee and has given a good deal of thought to the matter that is currently before us. i would also like to say to the senator from nevada. in view of the rules regarding the printing of pictures in the record. if he should have copies of those pictures showing the air pollution in his particular areai think he is referring to the grand canyoni. for one. would be glad to seek to either receive copies or take a look atthe copies he may have. if that would be helpful. it would be helpful to me.
. i think the senator from idaho has put his finger on the principal issue here. i think that one will argue with the fact that methyl chloroform is an extremely dangerous chemical as far as the ozone layer is concerned. the senator then raises the question should we proceed unilaterallythat is. the united states under this legislation would ban it 50 percent by 1996 and 100 percent by the year 2000. so the senator says. well. that is fine. but let us proceed in accordance with the montreal protocol as amended. the answer to that. and i believe that the merits of the answer overwhelmingly is that the united states produces nearly half. 41 percent to be exact. of all methyl chloroform produced in the world. therefore. it is our belief. and those who have spoken in favor of this legislation. that it behooves the united states to take a leadership position. methyl chloroform is extremely destructive. one of the virtues of moving quickly on this is that methyl chloroform is  a longlasting substance in the ozone layer. in other words.. it completes its dangerous work within 7 years. as opposedto many of the other chemicals. the cfcs with which we are dealing. which last much longer. some of them up to 50 years. in the stratosphere before they do their destructive work. so it seems to me that we can strike a tremendous blow in the preservation of the ozone layer by getting rid of these dangerous chemicals kn as methyl chloroformand at the same time. as the distinguished senator. who is a very valuable member of our committee. ks. the cpcs and methyl chloroform and similar chemicals are part of the problem of the global warming. and so by getting rid of the cfcs and methyl chloroform. we are striking a blow also against the global warming. so what this amendment does is. it takes methyl chloroform and adds it in with the cfcs that are currently in the bill which. all of them.  just methyl chloroform alone. but all the rest of them. have a definite phaseout date of the year 2000. which the montreal protocol at the current time does  have. as the senator. who has been following this ks. the montreal protocol provides for a 50percent reduction in production by the year 1998 for most of the cfcs. it does.  have a total ban on any of them. this legislation has a total ban by the year 2000. i think the senator ks the rationale for that position. but we can develop that further.
i do  k the answer to that. obviously. by the year 2000.  as much methyl chloroform will be produced. clearly because we will have banned it for the use in its natural ingredients. that is in its mal form as methyl chloroform. whether there is egh out there to sustain it as a feedstock. i have doubt that there will be egh demand to keep some of the production going. how much. i am  able to say. but . i do want to remind the senator from idaho what we are dealing with here. we are dealing with a concern of the destruction of the ozone layer.  this is a legitimate concern. this is  some group of environmentalists that are saying something may happen someday that will be of concern  only to the health but to the environment of the globe. this is something that is absolutely uncontroverted. there is  a single reputable scientist today that argues with the fact that cfcs and methyl chloroform and halons are destroying the ozone layer. the destruction of the ozone layer leads to greater incidence of cataracts. it leads to greater incidence of skin cancers. it leads to the destruction of the plant life and the ability of the plant life to regenerate itself. it can well be devastating. what we are seeing over the antarctic and what we are seeing increasingly over other sections.of the globe. in*cluding the arctic. are these tremendous gaps way beyond anything forecast. way beyond what any models predicted. are occurring. we just do  want to lose sight of that.. yes. somebody in the united states and somebody else. where this is part of the montreal protocol. as it inevitably will be. is going to lose his job producing this. when we do something to solve a tremendous problem like this. some jobs are going to be lost. at the same time. let us  lose sight: in the united states over the past 70 months we have created some 20.000 jobs in every single month. and i am  belittling anybody losing their job. but if we are going to have a better globe. substitutes will be developed. individuals will find work in these substitutes. finally. i want to say to the distinguished senator from idaho. the actions of the united states pursuant to this legislation are going to see the production of substitutes that will be in demand throughout the world. i will guarantee to the senator that the rest of the nations are going to follow the united states in this effort and certainly the montreal protocol is going to go just as far. which will be adopted in measured steps dealing with cfcs methyl chloroform. whatever it might be. in the years ahead.
. i think senator baucus suggestion is an excellent one. committee staff have done a good job presenting the various issues raised by the way our acid rain provisions deal with clean burning plants. their memo is directly responsive to what we asked for. i think it would help us reach a quick and constructive resolution of these issues if our colleagues and their staffs studied the staff memorandum and then let us k which options they prefer. thank you very much.
after the first 6 years. ozone attainment areas are required to reduce vocs by 3 percent a year. as in the presidents bill. in each case. the reductions are allowed to take place and be averaged over a 3year period. after the first 6 years. a state containing an ozone attaimnent area may seek a waiver from achieving the 3percent reduction on the basis of "techogical achievability. costs. and any air quality and other air qualityrelated health and environmental impacts." the inclusion of cost as a factor to be considered in the waiver was a muchdiscussed issue. we k from information submitted to us from several states that the costs of voc controls currently being required can exceed $10.000 per ton. state air pollution control agencies have. for example. estimated that controls on aerospace coating operations currently cost $10.000 per ton. on auto primer application processes. $14.000 per ton. and up to $24.000 per ton for petroleum fixed roof tanks. if such costs are being incurred in some areas of the country. costs of similar magnitude should  be the basis for excusing aher area from its percent emissions reductions requirements. many areas can come into attainment with the ozone standard on their own. matter what level of controls they require. because ozone is transported in from other areas. thus. allowing one area to slow down its emissions reductions before it has required controls at costs already being borne by emitters in other areas. may make attainment impossible for areas that are willing to impose tough requirements. also. residents of an area should  be denied healthy air at the earliest achievable date because polluters are permitted to delay expenditures that are being made by polluters in other areas of the country. aher area of the agreement that reflects serious discussions is that relating to sanctions and federal implementation plansthe socalled fips. the agreement requires the administrator to impose at least one of a list of four sanctions when a state fails to develop or implement a state implementation plan. the expectation is that the administrator will impose the sanction that will result in the greatest progress toward achieving the health standard for which the area is in attainment. if vehicles are a major cause of pollution. then the highway funding limitations should be the sanction selected. if ozone pollution is related more to stationary source growth. the construction ban on major sources of  and vocsfor vocs the ban would apply to sources emitting 25 tons per yearshould apply. the provision for fips assures that there is the continuing threat of epa intervention where state or local officials fail to act. the requirement for annual epa imposition of control measures at least as tough as the state would be required to undertake. should make it unlikely that state or local officials will abdicate their responsibilities. finally on the attainment issues. let me just e that several provisions were compromised to ally the worst fears of businesses. without stepping back from the requirements of the legislation that health standards are tb be achieved by the deadlines prescribed. we eliminated specific references to offsets of greater than 1 to 1 for new sources coming into a attainment area. but retain the requirement in existing law for a new source to reduce pollution by more than the new pollution it will create. we agreed to allow a new source to net out of new source review. but only so long as the transaction guarantees there is absolutely increase in pollution. and we eliminated some fees on polluters while retaining signifidant new resources to state and local agencies through the permit fee provisions that are in both the presidents and the committees bills. undoubtedly there will be those who criticize this compromise as too strong or too weak. however. for those of us who are deeply interested in environmental protection. i think it is very important to recognize that this legislation represents a great leap forward in cleaning up the nations air. as i mentioned earlier. the substitute also contains an alternative fuels section. this issue was  addressed in s. 1630. however our committee had a hearing on a proposal.that i submitted earlier this year. the substitute embraces both my proposal as well as that of the proposal contained in the administrations bill. there are several key points i would like to touch with respect to alternative fuels later in the floor debate. the substitute also contains the provisions on chlorofluorocarbons [cfcs] with several changes to the provisions originally contained in s. 1630. as such. the report filed by the committee is still applicable and remains the relevant legislative history. detailed explanations of the most significant changes are included in a separate document and i ask unanimous consent that these be printed in the record following my statement.
. i want to commend the senator from kentucky for this amendment. i think it is a thoughtful one. . he is quite correct in saying that a considerable thrust of this legislation has come legitimately from the canadians. our neighbors to the th. they have felt very deeply that the amount of acid rain sulfur dioxide emissions from all powerplants have been blown by the westerlies across into canada and have caused deleteri ous effects to their lakes. streams. forests. and believe that we should take affirmative action to reduce these sulfur dioxide emissions and nitrous oxides. we are undertaking it in the course of this legislation. likewise. they have assured us that they are going to take steps. and i think the legislation that the senator from kentucky is suggesting is good. and it will be a form of report by the administrator of epa as to the progress that  only the federal government is making. but each of the individual provinces are making. so i think that will be helpful to us. i commend the senator. and it is acceptable by this side.
first. . i would like to thank the distinguished senator from arizona for his kind comments on the work that we have done particularly in this subcommittee chaired by the distinguished senator from montana for the work done in this legislation. second. i wish to say the senator is absolutely correct. and. furthermore. we appreciate the leadership that he has given and the foresight that he has shown in promoting the research and development of alternative techogies and processes that do  rely on cfcs. he is right on the mark. the rapid development and transition to cfc alternatives is critical to protecting the ozone layer and avoiding unwanted and unexpected ecoic and industrial impacts.
. i hope those senators who have amendments they think are controversial will show them to us . in this particular amendment. i understand one of the staff did have an opportunity to look at it. let me just say this. there is one modification i ask if the senator will be willing to accept. that is the last clause of his amendment. he asks for a report in 12 months. and that is all right. but then he follows up with "and every 12 months thereafter." the problem we have gotten into in this government. and this is  restricted to the environment committee. are the levies made upon the epa. and it is all through the government. we say submit a report. and then submit a report every 6 months or every year. these departments or agencies are just laidened with reports that require a considerable number of manhours. what i will aski have objections to the amendment and it certainly reaches far afield from clean air. but so be itif the senator will be willing to modify. to drop those last five words. then that will be acceptable to me.
. my suggestion is this. the distinguished senator from new york is a very senior member of the environment committee. unquestionably. the committee would agree at any time he wished to require a report from the epa on magnetic levitation. that is problem. as far as any of us are concerned. or have them in for an oversight hearing. i find it more acceptable if we just drop those last five words.
madam president. first of all. i want to congratulate and thank the two sponsors of this amendment. senator byran and senator gorton. i would particularly like to address my remarks regarding senator gorton. with whom i have worked with many years in connection with these efforts to reduce smog. to achieve greater mileage in our automobiles. to improve the environment generally. this is a particular area where he has shown a profound interest and kledge. i appreciate the arguments that he brought forward. as he would remember. these are the original provisions that we had in our bill and these are the provisions that i was particularly involved with. namely the reduction in the carbon dioxide emissions through the tailpipe standards. which is a roundabout way of achieving more miles per gallon. so in the negotiations. as has been pointed out. it was necessary to drop those particular provisions. but senator gorton and senator bryan  have brought these back and have achieved one of their primary goals. that it will be considered. as the distinguished majority leader has pointed out. so both senators have done us a real service. and especially i thank senator gorton because of the fact i have worked with him on these matters for many years.
. i thank the distinguished majority leader. first. i congratulate the senator from tennessee for this amendment. this is an area that he has worked on for a good number of years. it has been constructive. i am very pleased to speak in behalf of this amendment. oddly egh. this was the language that was in the original s. 1630 that we considered. and it was an area. as i mentioned before. i have been deeply involved in. indeed. i was the one who presented this particular section. so you might say. "well. why isnt it in the compromise agreement that we brought out." the reason is that in the negotiations we were pressured and required. if you would. as a result of the back and forth agreements. to drop the hcfc portion. however. the administration did  agree to support the overall cfc portion or title vii of the legislation. so my commitment was that i would  present the i1cfc amendment. i was  forestalled from supporting it. but i said i would  present it. and. instead. we had as a substitute a study for the hcfc. that was understood by the administration.  we are in the situation where the senator from tennessee has presented the amendment and therefore my obligations are released and i am free to support it. all that has been said about hcfcs is accurate. we deal well with cfcs. chlorofluorocarbons in the legislation. but the hcfcs. which are viewed as the substitute. and many think it is a benign substitute. for cfcs are  covered. as i previously mentioned. although. as i said. they were covered in the original legislation. hcfcs are more benign than cfcs. that is correct. but the trouble is cumulatively they can have a disastrous effect. just as the cfcs do. so it behooves us to get on with the regulation of the hcfcs. this gets to a pretty complicated area because. if you can believe it. there is a further chemical named hfcs.  we have three players in the dramas. we have cfcs. we have hcfcs. and we have hfcs. the difference between the hcfc and the hfc is the lack of a chlorine compound in it. so hfcs. 135a. 125. 14a. 152a. all of these are also substitutes for cfcs. and we do  regulate those in this amendment  in the underlying legislation. they are  dealing with those at all. . again getting back. we have set aside the cfcs. they are taken care of under the legislation. the hfcs we are  dealing with. so we get back to the old problem of the hcfcs. as i mentioned. they are  benign. they are less potent ozone depleters and greenhouse gases than cfcs but still pose a serious threat. scientific experts told us that our focus should  be limited just to the halons. just to the cfcs. we need to consider the total chlorine loading of the atmosphere and. as we pursue and eliminate one chlorine substance such as the cfcs. we certainly do  want these substitutes that are less benign but. etheless. cumulatively are bad actors to come on strong in the future. so. what this legislation does is to. in the next 40 years. provide for the total elimination of the production of them. i think that is a good measure. as i say. this goes back to the original language that we had in the underlying legislation. i think it is a good provision. some say "well. you are going to shut down industry." we do  believe so. we believe that by allowing. as this amendment does. the production and use of the hcics. which are a substitute for the cfcs we eliminate. by allowing them to be used as a substitute up to the year 2030that is hardly tomorrow. that is 40 years from . and the sclentists tell us that that is far egh into the future to have adequate substitutes developed and there will be substitutes at that time. i just want to report to my colleagues in the senate that i have been most encouraged as i have gone around. and i suspect the junior senator from tennessee has found likewise. that industry is stepping into the breeches and developing substitutes of their own of cfcs. hing to do with hpcs. hing to do with cfcs. entirely new substitutes. i will just quote from the trade journal of the industry which deals with heating and cooling. actually it is the heating trade journal called the district heating and cooling. they state: this amendment of the senator from tennessee will help bridge the gap as we look at and phase in more fundamental alternatives. during this gap time. alternatives will be developed for refrigeration. gas cooling systems. steam and gas fire absorption systems. systems combined cogeneration and heat activated cooling. 4nd new chiller designers still in the developmental stage. so we are on the path of solving the overall problems of cfcs. and they are promising longterm solutions. . there are even some representatives who argue we do  even need this amendment. they cite recent scientific reports to support the ion that continued use of hcfcs will  affect peak chlorine loading and  delay the date by which we return to the level of 2 parts per billion. i do  want to go into that in great detail. let me say. in conclusion. that i think that the modest amounts of shortlived hcfcs that will be released under this extended period we are giving will  increase the maximum chlorine levels. compounds such as hcfc 123. which has an atmospheric lifetime of 2 years. can be described clearly as shortlived. so the amendment is a good one. it provides that we will have this substitute to take us over the breach. meanwhile. we will be coming up with longterm alternatives and. at the same time. there will be a cutoff date for these hcfcs. so i hope the amendment will be adopted. i look forward to voting for it at the appropriate time.
. 3 years ago i had the privilege of being in western europe viewing the results of profound acid rain depositions in switzerland. sweden. germany. and england. in sweden we had the privilege of seeing in a mountain lake their attempts made to .combat the acid depositions in that lake by liming the lake. it is an extremely interesting process and one that i think should be carried out in our country to see how well it succeeds. so i think this is an interesting experimentation that the junior senator from wyoming has proposed. i commend him for it. it certainly has the total support of this side.
. this is an amendment that deals with the nitrogen oxide provisions of the legislation in such a manner that will benefit both the environment and the utilities because the utilities will  be forced to install unreasonably expensive equipment. this has the support and concurrence of those on the other side. it is consistent with the bipartisan agreement which we have reached to base  emissions rates on the application of low  burner techogy. it is the belief of the sponsor of the amendment that more reasonable and costeffective methods have proven to be successful in achieving significant  reductions.
 a strong ollspill response bill for his signature. it is fitting that we take this opportunity. on the anniversary of the most catastrophic spill ever to befoul u.s. waters. to remind ourselves that we must make significant strides to assure that we reduce the number of spills which occur in the future. and significantly improve our ability to contain and clean up those spills that do occur. we owe it to the environment to approve strong oilspill legislation. and i am confident that we will.
. i want to join in the tribute to these indomitable explorers. i had the privilege. as others here. of going to the south pole. i went the easy way. flying. but from that association and from prior studies of shackleton. scott. and amundsen. i have always been a great admirer of those who braved the rigors of the antarctic clime to make those journeys. of course. this journey surpasses those by going right across the entire continent. i guess it is the last great exploratory feat that can be done on the world surface. so those men have participated in something extremely unique. we all join in tribute to them. it is certainly wonderful that in that land that we hope will be internationalized that the expedition did consist of men fron seven different countries. i just say that it seems to me it is appropriate that they be here at the time when we are dealing with the clean air bill because this actual legislation deals with chlorofluorocarbons. cfcs. and attempts to restrain them and eliminate them by the end of this decade. so those men have been in that continent where we first observed the destruction of the ozone layer. i hope that as time goes on. greater efforts will be made to preserve the environment of the antarctica and that it be kept in its pristine condition and preserved for future generations to see. explore. and visit as those doughty explorers have done.
i move to lay that oxides controls set pursuant to subsection (d). the owner or operator of two of more motion on the table.. (b)(1).  later than january 1.. 1997. the units subject to one or more of the applicathe motion to lay on the table was administrator may revise the applicable ble emission limitations set pursuant to agreed to. emission limitations for tangentially fired these sections. maypetition the permitting
. i ask the permitting authority shall. upon re- shall only remain in effect while both units unanimous consent that the reading of quest of an owner or operator of a unit sub- continue operation under the conditions the amendment be dispensed with. ject to this section. authorize an emission specified in their respective .operating per-
. i ask the senator from ohio if he would be good egh to look at page 265 of the committee report. it is rather interesting there. the stress there is on the environmental effects of acid rain to the aquatic ecosystems. the senator has been directing his attention to the effects on forests and trees. i call his attention to the effects on aquatic ecosystems. the information that is provided there is rather interesting. i think it would be helfpul to the discussion to point out that when the socalled ph levels drop below a certain figure. below 5 actually. the effect on fish and other aquatic life is really fairly dramatic. i think in much of this. the senator is right. he is trying to put his finger on exactly where the damage is or exactly where you draw the line between where the cutoff should be. should it be a 12millionton reduction or an 8millionton reduction. we came up with 10 million. i think the senator could probably make an argument that that is  the right figure. that is should be something different. we have settled on 10 million. the studies we had showed that the 12millionton reduction was a very substantial extra expense to achieve. i suppose the same argument can be made with the difference between 8 and 10. and then you can carry it down to 6 and 8. where do you draw the line. as the distinguished senator has pointed out. the scientific discussion of these subjects are all over the lot. there has been this recent study of the national precipitation group. the socalled napap. they have concluded on the forest damage that they do  see much there. i have a little trouble with that. going back again to the experience i had  only* in europe but with the testimony we have had before us in the committee. the senator can say that is all wet. but i am reminded of the old story. they asked the preacher. "do you believe in infant baptism." and he said. "believe in it. ive seen it." and so it is. we have seen it. i k the distinguished senator from new york was speaking previously on this subject. he was the originator of the napap study. he originally put in the legislation 10 years ago. i recall that because. obviously. he is a member of the environment committee. he. himself. has come forward with fact after fact about the increasing acidification of the adirondack lakes. what is it due to. we believe that it is due to the increased amounts of so2 that are in the atmosphere and that have come from highsulfur plants. so at some point. we have to make a decision. we can put this off and wait for the napap study. i do  even k when it is finally going to come in. they had interim report after interim report. i am  sure what the senator is reading from.
. i point out to those who are interested in this type of procedurein other words. about improving the emission control equipment on the utilitythat taxexempt financing is still available through the states for pollution control equipment. sometimes that is lost sight of. so that is available pursuant to state laws. most states have those laws. certainly my state has it. i do  k what the situation is in pennsylvania or the midwest states. but it is possible for taxexempt financing to be available for pollution control equipment. which obviously means that the utility can install that at a greatly reduced rate.
an old. underutilized plant with relatively low emissions. transform it into a "just like hew plant" and enable it to operate much more extensively and produce many more emissions. according to epa. average actualwe are  talking potential. we are talking actualso2 or  emissions from existing utilities are only 37 percent of potential emissions and particulates are only 44 percent of potential emissions this is because the older plants are operating well below their maximum capacity. to allow a. refurbished utility to emit at its old potential levels could permit an almost twofold increase in emissions. what we are pointing out is that plants have  been operating at their potential. they have been operating at an actual. so you then take an old plant and you fix it up. refurbish it. and suddenly it is  operating at the old. relatively low actual emissions. but you are much higher. you are up far closer to the socalled potential. in other words. you are getting. in some instances. twice as much emissions than you previously had from this plant. so this amendment could permit a powerplant. even one where its emissions directly affected a national park. for example. to refurbish or add a new boiler. to double its  and particulate emissions. triple its s02 emissions and cover these so2 emissions by purchasing allowances and never have to demonstrate what impact this would have on visibility or other air quality standards. similarly. a powerplant could increase emissions in a attainment area. let us take houston or boston. any city. take my home city of providence. a powerplant could increase emissions in one of these attainment areas and neither have. to demonstrate air quality impacts  be required to offset these increases of" emissions as they are required to do under existing law.
the senator is correct in pointing out that the emission standard can be adjusted. the 0.95 figure is a projection of emission levels from a car that has  been built. and incorporates refueling. evaporative. running loss and exhaust emissions. because some have expressed concern that one or more of these estimates might be a little on the high side. and because we wanted to achieve the reduction targets of 30 percent. we have authorized the epa administrator to adjust the 0.66 figure if. upon review. .the original 0.95 number is found to overstate the emission estimate of the baseline vehicle.
 that is  the intent. the goal of the alternative fuels program is to get a 30 percent improvement over the presidents tier i car. combined with such mi technical modifications to the automobile as are necessary to maximize the emission reduction performance. reformulated gasoline should be able to compete. the 30percent improvement should result in a significant air quality improvement. but is  designed to mandate any certain fuel.
(for mr. boschwitz. for himself. mr. mccain. and mr. wilson) proposed an amendment to amendment  1293 (in the nature of a substitute) proposed by mr. mitchell (and others) to the bill s. 1630. supra. as follows: on page 455 of the amendment ( 1293). line 9. redesignate subsection (f) as subsection (g). on page 455 of the amendment ( 1293). between lines 8 and 9. insert the following new subsection: (f)(1) the administrator of the environmental protection agency shall sponsor monitoring and research and submit to congress annual and periodic assessment reports on(a) the occurrence and effects of acid deposition on surface waters located in that part or the united states west of the mississippi river. (b) the occurrence and effects of acid deposition on high elevation ecosystems (including forests. and surface waters). and (c) the occurrence and effects of episodic acidification. particularly with respect to high elevation watersheds. (2) the administrator of the environmental protection agency shall analyze data generated from the studies conducted under paragraph (1). data from the western lakes survey and other appropriate research and utilize predictive modeling techniques that take into account the unique geographic. climatological. and atmospheric conditions which exist in the western united states to determine the potential occurrence and effects of acid deposition due to any projected increases in the emission of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides in that part of the united states located west of the mississipi river. the task force shall include the results of the project conducted under this paragraph in the reports issued to congress under paragraph (1).
. i would like to take a moment to pay tribute to an outstanding public servant. who has been a primary force in the protection of the environment in rhode island. i am referring to robert l. bendick. who has been the director of the rhode island department of environmental management since 1982. bob will be leaving dem to take a position with the state of new york. over the past two decades bob bendick and i have worked together on environmental issues in nearly every corner of the state. bob has a vision. a vision of open fields and well planned cities. and of bays and rivers free from pollution. unlike many others. bob has acted on his vision. and worked tirelessly to turn it into reality. an example is bobs work along the blackstone river. bob started the effort to protect the environmental and historical importance of the blackstone river nearly 20 years ago while he was a planner in woonsocket. i worked closely with bob to develop and introduce national legislation to create the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. due largely to his efforts and the passage of this legislation. the blackstone is being transformed into a place where visitors can enjoy the natural environment in the midst of an urban setting. rhode island has done more on open space protection than any other state in the country. and much of the credit for this belongs to bob bendick. on a per capita basis. rhode island spends more on preserving open space than any other state. in just the past 4 years. rhode islanders have approved the expenditure of over $200 million for open space protection and recreation development. equally. bob has had a great deal to do with the improvement of narragansett bay. just a few years ago the bay was threatened with irreversible contamination. his work in establishing the bay as a national estuary and the creation and development of the narragansett bay project has been crucial to the bays resurgence. during the last 5 years. under bobs direction. narragansett bay has made great strides. according to the u.s. environmental protection agency. over 90 percent of narragansett bay is swimable and fishable. according to dem data. five major wastewater treatment facilities achieved a dramatic decrease in conventional pollutants being discharged into narragansett bay. in 1988. more than $22.9 million in federal and state funds were spent on municipal wastewater treatment facilities. bob has been a leader in these efforts. also bob was instrumental in establishing rhode island as a leader in solid waste management. presently. more than onethird of the state is participating in a source separation program. and by the end of this year more than 60 percent of the state will be recycling its solid waste. this inative program would  have been realized without the efforts of bob bendick. rhode island owes bob bendick a debt of gratitude. he is leaving rhode island a healthier. more environmentally sound place than he found it. and for that. we deeply grateful.*
. i commend the senator from indiana the point he raises is a very serious one. and we recognize it. in serving on the environment committee. we are determined to do everything we can to solve the problem he raised. but he is quite right in saying the solution is  going to go quickly. i commend him for his thoughtfulness in the drafting of the legislation and his being receptive to a solution. i am sorry we could  have come to that solution. but certainly the senator from indiana did. indeed. help solve the problem.
. today i rise to e the senates action last friday to confirm mr. richard g. austin to be administrator of the general services administration [gsa]. as you k. dick austin has had a long and distinguished career with gsa. from 198688. he served as regional administrator in chicago. il. in 1988. mr. austin was appointed deputy administrator and has served as acting administrator of the general services administration since september 1988. as the ranking republican member of the committee on environment and public works. i have had several firsthand opportunities to speak with dick austin on federal space issues. whether it was dealing with the need for new headquarters space for the environmental protection agency or the reation of the historic courthouse in old san juan. i have always found dick austin and his staff to be wellinformed. receptive to suggestion and responsive. dick austin shares my concern with regard to the federal governments spiralling lease costs and the need to commit federal dollars for building construction. i am pleased that the senate has confirmed a man with experience and foresight in the area of public buildings administration to deal with these issues. i supported the confirmation of mr. richard g. austin to be administrator of the general services administration and look forward to working with him in the future e
. for 30 years the people of th dakota have been served effectively and diligently in this body by my colleague and friend. quentin burdick. as a member of the committee on environment and public works since coming to the senate. i have worked closely with the distinguished senator who  chairs our committee. over the years we have worked sidebyside on important environmental and public works issues such as the clean water act and the federal aid highway program. the senior senator from th dakota has always treated his colleagues with courtesy and fairness. and these two qualities have been the hallmark of his chairmanship of the committee since he assumed that position in january 1987. while he brings a western states perspective to his work. he has balanced this interest with the more important consideration of crafting legislation that will protect the environment and improve our transportation system in all 50 states. service to country has been a tradition in the burdick family. senator burdicks father served for some 20 years in the house of representatives. when his father retired in 1958. quentin bumick won election to his seat and 2 years later moved on to become senator. only 35 of the 1.792 distinguished americans who have served as members of the senate have served for a longer period of time. i join with my colleagues in holding senator burdick in high regard and in congratulating him on his 30 years of distinguished service in the senate.
. i am pleased that the senate is today considering the asbestos hazard emergency response act [ahera]. s. 1893. this bill will reauthorize the federal loan and *grant program under the asbestos school hazard abatement act eashaa]. at a level of more than $200 million per year. these funds. nearly double the cur. rent authorization. are needed to assist primary and secondary schools in implementing the provisions of school management plans developed pursuant to the asbestos hazard emergency response act laheral by assisting schools in implementing these management plans. congress is helping to ensure that our schoolage children will  be exposed to asbestos and the lifethreatening diseases it causes. in my own state of rhode island more than 150 schools are in the process of managing the asbestos identified under ahera. this bill also contains an important. provision offered by my colleague from virginia. senator warner. this provision requires the environmental protection agency to provide informa. tion to the states and local education agencies to improve understanding of the risks of inplace management of asbestos compared to asbestos removal. the provision also requires epa to promote the least burdensome and costly response actions to the presence of asbestos which are necessary to pro. tect human health. safety and the environment. this provislan was included to address a concern that asbestos removals may be taking place in situations where inplace management of the asbestos may be preferable. both in terms of human health impacts and cost. unnecessary removals may result in a much higher degree of occupant exposure. in addition to increasing health risks for abatement workers. in distributing information pursuant to this provision. epa should emphasize that removal should be considered only after other more environmentally safe options such as encapsulation have been thoroughly explored. testifying before the subcommittee on toxic substances. environmental oversight. research and development. linda fisher. the epa assistant administrator for pesticides and toxic substances related the agencys efforts to get the message across to schools that inplace management of asbestos. encapsulation or enclosure. is a recommended alternative to asbestos removal in most circumstances. she concluded that only when these methods will  work is removal a necessity. this bill also includes an amendment. offered by the distinguished senator from ohio which extends the current training requirements for workers who remove asbestos from schools. to abatement workers removing asbestos from public and commercial buildings. in testimony before the subcommittee witnesses were in agreement that the group of people most at risk from asbestosrelated illnesses are the abatement workers who come into direct contact with the substance. accordingly. this legislation extends the worker training requirements to abatement workers  only in schools. but also in all public and commercial buildings. this amendment also will require epa to increase the hours of training under the model contractor accreditation plan. i would like to clarify four points regarding this amendment: first. the additional number of hours required by this section are for handson health and safety training -which should be designed to improve a workers ability to handle asbestos in a safe manner. second. the amendment only requires epa to increase the number of training hours. but it does  specify the number of hours. epa is purposely given discretion to determine the number of additional training hours necessary to adequately promote worker safety and health. third. in revising the model contractor accreditation plan. this amendment does  require the accreditation of any category of individuals   required to be accredited to perform asbestos abatement work. fourth. the amendment increasing the minimum number of hours of training for asbestos abatement workers authorities "such other changes as may be necessary to implement the amendments 0. .." it is my understanding that this refers to the model contractor accreditation plan. which currently refers only to asbestos abatement workers in schools. the changes referred to in this section are to clarify that the plan will need to be modified to refer to abatement workers in public and commercial buildings. as well as schools. this bill will have an important and beneficial impact on public health. and i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting passage of this legislation.
i thank the chair. i hope my colleagues will  retreat from the commitment made under the endangered species act to conserve threatened and endangered species and. of course. their habitat. that is the key to the whole thing. and by requiring the fish and wildlife service to issue a decision on the old plans and precluding the service from issuing an opinion on these plans as modified to incorporate adequate owl conservation measures. i believe. would be a mistake. so for those reasons. . i oppose the amendment. i thank the chair.
. as the ranking republican member of the subcommittee with jurisdiction over matters relating to endangered species of fish and wildlife. i also would like to direct a question to the chairman of the water and power subcommittee. in various sections of title vl[ referene is made to actions undertaken to promote the conservation of the pyramid lake fishery. the terms "conserve" and "conservation" are carefully defined terms under section 3 of the endangered species act. is it your intent that the word "conservation" be given the same meaning in title vii of h.r. 2567 as that term is defined under the endangered species act.
i would say that this legislation will allow epa to approve the south coast air quality management districts proposed new source review rule so long as it achieves the overall emissions reductions required by section 182(e).
yes. that is the case. if an owner or operator that installs such techogy can then meet the emission rate established for a given type of boiler. the owner or operator has the right to seek and obtain either an alternative emission rate or average emissions between two or more units within its electric system.
i am pleased at the cooperation between the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. and the committee on environment and public works. one issue of particular importance in this legislation provides for the development of a water quality plan for the waters of the florida keys marine sanctuary. a sanctuary which is to be established by this legislation. this new initiative is to be developed by the epa and the gover. with funding for the program provided to the epa. we have agreed that this water quality planning provision is appropriately the jurisdiction of the environment and public works committee.
. i am pleased that we are today introducing the indoor air quality act of 1991. this bill will provide for a substantial research and development initiative to uncover harmful pollutants in our indoor environment. and will focus the efforts of the federal government to address this problem.
i want to thank the chairman of the environment and public works committee for making this point. further. i ask the chairman of the committee on appropriations whether it is his intention that upon completion of the report from certain departmental secretaries on steps being taken to deal with potential listing or emergency listing of these salmon. this report be submitted to the committee on environment and public works as well as the committee on appropriations.
 signed into law a landmark clean air act. designed to achieve marked improvements in air quality around the nation by the beginning of the next century. and even as early as the year 1995. the legislation being debated here today takes important steps to ensure that transportation will be part of the solution in meeting our clean air goals. instead of part of the problem.
. section 137 was adopted in the committee by an overwhelming vote of 12 to 4. the committee i am referring to is the environment and public works committee. voting for the amendment were senators mitchel.. moynihan.
. this was an amendment that was discussed in the environment and public works committee by the distinguished senator from ohio. and. as i recall. was either voted down or he withdrew it for further consideration. i am  just clear. in other words. whether it did  prevail. whether it was rejectedi believe the senator withdrew it if i am correct.
. i want to thank the distinguished senator from utah. first of all. i wish to thank the manager of the bill. the distinguished senior senator from massachusetts. it was his committee that brought this bill to the floor. he has been a stalwart in our efforts to obtain its passage. i also want to thank the majority leader. who has been extremely helpful throughout this long process that has involved many. many decisions. i have worked with him in many other areas dealing with the environment and this is the first chance we have had to work together on matters of this particular nature. as always. he has just been absolutely tremendously supportive and helpful. so i want to thank the distinguished majority leader for all he has done. and again to thank the chairman of the committee. because we would  be here considering this if he had  brought it to the floor and if the majority leader had  called it up. as for the distinguished republican manager. senator hatch. he has  been exactly supportive of this measure but he has  stood in our way. he has called up the votes and we have moved along. so i am grateful to him for helping us move ahead in an orderly fashion.
 that is fine. . i just want to say i think the majority leader deserves a lot of credit for this piece of legislation. really. this is his bill. we have wrestled with this in the environment committee i guess  for about 3 to 4 years. i must say that i was very strongly opposed to the original language. it was an unequal contest. he blew me away in the votes we had. as i recall. but etheless. he did say that when we got to the floor. we would try to fix it up. amend it in a satisfactory way to satisfy the deep concerns that i and others had in the original legislation. and. indeed. he did that. so i want to thank the majority leader who has been. as i say. the real pusher for this legislation. i think he is right in many respects on it. as the distinguished senator from idaho who previously spoke indicated. we can have a double standard in this country with doe and our department of defense facilities able to carry on in a fashion that private industry can. so i am very glad we have arrived at this situation. again. i want to salute the distinguished majority leader who has been such a valued member of the environment committee.
if i might finish. then i will be glad to deal with any questions. second. this bill gets into the matter of chlorofluorocarbons. a matter of intense interest to me. a subject we have dealt with in the environment committee for many years. there is question but cfcs are the primary cause of the destruction of the earths ozone layer. and just last week news came out that destruction of that ozone layer is proceeding far more rapidly than we previously thought. and this is principal cause of skin cancer and myriad changes in our environment. so in the clean air act. we provide for an elimination schedule for cfcs in title i of the energy bill. can you imagine it. they get into this area. they override the schedule for the cfc reduction that was included in the clean air act. and. in addition. this act eliminates the epa administrators authority to accelerate. the schedule even further. this represents a major step backward in an effort to phase out the use of cfcs. secondly. and in connection with the cfcs. it specifically recommends research on hcfc22 which is a replacement for cfcs. but this is just the approach we are trying to avoid. if the federal government is going to support research on substitutes. we should focus our resources on pure and safe substitutes.  substances with many of the same environmental hazards represented currently by cfcs and included in hcfcs. these issues including several provisions of title iv relating to fleets and alternative fuels substantively modify the requirements of the clean air act. time and time again. this bill gets into the clean- air acts jurisdiction. we should . reopen the debate on the clean air act. reauthorization of that act took 13 years. . this bill needs a great deal more work. i believe it should go back to the proper committees. and i will therefore vote against the motion to proceed.
i share senator mitchells view that our work on indoor air quality over the past several years has produced a sound and balanced bill. i also share the concern of the senator from th carolina that some of the related proposals made in the house of representatives are extreme and unnecessary. we considered and rejected some of these proposals in developing the bill we are considering today. i have an obligation to listen fully and fairly to proposals made by our colleagues in the house. however. the present bill is the product of a great deal of careful work and attention and i will make every effort to assure that any final bill reflects this effort.
. is do it and do it . the sooner the better. to those who like to kick around environmentalists. those who like to ridicule our environmental laws. i say "remember the ozone hole." to those who continue to sound the alarm and warn us of environmental problems. i say "keep up the good work." and finally. to those who develop the solutions to these problems. those who find better. cleaner ways to make things. i say "four cheers." exhisit 1 [from the washington post. feb. 4. 1992] ozosnhoe condrtons spreading (by kathy sawyer) the dapger that a new ozone "hole" could open over densely settled areas of the thern hemisphere. exposing the population to increased amounts of harmful radiation. is greater than previously suspected. scientists reported yesterday. new indications of ozone depletion by nasa satellite and multiagency airborne instruments are so alarming. the scientists said. that they decided to release them before completion of the data analysis in late march. two weeks ago. detectors aboard a converted spy plane flying over new england and eastern canada recorded the highest level of the ozonedestroying chemical chlorine moide ever measured anywhere around the globe. the level1.5 parts per billionwas approximately 50 percent greater than any previously seen over antarctica. the site of the infamous ozone hole first discovered in the early 1980s. chlorine moide. which results from the presence of manmade chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs). is a potent ozonedestroyer by itself. and when combined with small amounts of its chemical cousin. bromine moidewhich the nasa researchers also found at elevated levelsthe effect is egh to destroy ozone at a rate of about 1 or 2 percent per day for brief periods in late winter. said michael kurylo. nasas program manager for the airborne studies. ozone in the stratosphere protects the earths surface by absorbing much of the ultraviolet radiation that causes skin cancer. cataracts and immunesystem damage in humans and devastates many microscopic marine organisms. weather conditions permitting. ozone over parts of the thern hemisphere could be depleted by 30 to 40 percent. the scientists said. by comparison. about 50 percent of the ozone has been depleted from the ozone hole over antarctica. to emphasize how ozonedestroying chemicals have become widespread over populated areas. kurylo described the experience of- the science investigators flights out of maine. "there were some flights directly out of bangor where the aircraft encouraged these parcels [of chlorine gas] before it ever got to operating altitudes." in addition. researchers found evidence of reduced concentrations of nitrogen oxides in the lower stratosphere. nitrogen oxides help preserve ozone by reacting with chlorine and bromine compounds before they can damage the ozone layer. "our conclusion is that the immune system of the atmosphere"-its nitrogenmediated ability to fight ozonedestroying chemicals-"is weaker than we had suspected before." said james 0. anderson of harvard university. lead scientist for the airborne observations programn. "e of the news is good." ozonedepleting compounds in the stratosphere from the arctic as far south as the central caribbean were found to be much more abundant than computer analyses had predicted. part of this is a result of the eruption of mount pinatubo in the philippines last june. the scientists said. the new observations. including some from nasas new upper atmosphere research satellite (uars). suggest that the chemical processes that apparently work to deplete ozone throughout the atmosphere are  confined to the polar areas. where conditions are more conducive to ozone destruction. the antarctic hole was discovered in 1985. concern has grown since then that earths ozone shield is being destroyed by human industry. primarily by the release into the atmosphere of cfcs used as refrigerants. thermal insulators and in cleaning solvents. these break down into chlorine atoms or compounds. which interact with and destroy ozone. ozone is a form of oxygen whose molecules contain three oxygen atoms instead of the usual twoa configuration that gives ozone its peculiar ability to filter ultraviolet rays from sunlight. but highly reactive chlorine or bromine compounds. atmospheric scientists believe. snatch one of the oxygen atoms away. the remaining twoatom molecules of ordinary oxygen can block ultraviolet radiation. how severely the ozone is depleted depends on weather conditions. especially the size and duration of the socalled polar vortexa supercold mass of air penned in by high winds swirling around it. when the air is cold egh inside the vortex. ice particles form. these. along with liquid droplets. provide platforms for the ozonecestroying chemical reactions. which are triggered by sunlight. the vortex over the arctic is more broken. because .of turbulence caused by surrounding mountains. than is the one over antarctica. scientists ed. the greatest danger of high ozone lossa "hole"-over the arctic will occur when the vortex there remains intact until late february. according to kurylo. based on an estimated 10 percent ozone loss in midlatitudes during the 1990s. a panel of the united nations environment program reported in ember that increased ultraviolet radiation leaking through the ozone layer by the turn of the century could cause 1.6 million additional cases of cataracts and 300.000 additional skin cancers a year worldwide. most nations have agreed to phase out cfcs by the year 2000. but some potential replacements also involve ozone destroyers. the new findings yesterday moved sen. albert gore jr. (dtenn.) to introduce new legislation that would speed the phaseout of ozonedepleting chemicals. a nasa official compared the decades of buildup of ozonedestroying chemicals to the way a head of foam forms on a glass of beer. the chemicals rise through the lower atmosphere ahd bubble into the stratosphere. scientists ed that. once in the atmosphere. the ozone destroyers are very persistent. even if cfcs were phased out at once. said kurylo. to restore the ozone layer to its former health "would take until 2060 or 2070 .... this legacy will be with us for a long time."
i thank the distinguished majority leader. the negotiations dealing with climate change. the global warming problemthe u.s. delegation made a statement that signals a major shift in the u.s. position at these talks. for months. president bush has been criticized for. among other things. denying that the threat of global climate change is a real and serious threat. and refusing to commit to what are kn as targets and timetables. this criticism has been strident. and in large part.  be printed in the record.
 i think . we can discuss the asbestos thing and whether the schools went way further than they were required to do. but that is a separate subject. i would say. first of all. there is a vast difference in what it takes to mitigate the damage.
. the committee on environment and public works has held two days of hearings on water resources legislation this session and expects to report a bill after the easter recess. certainly. the committee needs to review these proposals here more closely. but i commend the administration for laying the groundwork for legislative action. i ask that the two bills and the sectionbysection analyses be included in the record.
. before closing. i would like to comment about the work that senator coats has done in connection with the interstate transportation of solid waste. that was mentioned by the senator from pennsylvania. as a member of the environment and public works committee. i want to say that the work that senator coats has done in trying to resolve this very. very difficult issuewhich he has been working on for some 3 years . i believe. certainly more than 2 yearsis extremely commendable. i am glad that we are able to arrive at a conclusion that seems to have the approval of the senators from new jersey. new york. pennsylvania. ohio. and across indianavirginia likewise. all states affected plus others which were likewise affected. trying to work out this compromise was extremely difficult. if there is ever a case of pushing in a balloon and having it come out somewhere else. this was that situation. if we tried to do something to help those states that were receiving the trash. we were encountering legitimate difficulties by those states that were exporters. so i am happy we were able to resolve this. i give a lot of credit to everybody involved. but especially to senator coats. who has been tackling and dealing with this issue for so many years. i thank the chair.
. i would like to make a couple of quick points. again. i stress that the senator from new jersey is really  quite accurate when he said that the original intent of the superfund law was to exempt municipalities. i have been present on the environment and public works committee throughout the whole superfund legislation. when it was first discussed and passed. there never was an intent to exempt municipalities. it is also true that there was the belief that those who provided funding. in the instance of the banks. would  be caught under the provisions or the interpretation that the courts have recently given. so there is an argument in favor of the garn amendment. i must say. if we start fresh here. and if somebody wants to move to eliminate the garn amendment. i will vote for it. but there is justification for the garn amendment. second. i make a correction on what the senator from new jersey said. he said that his language passed through the committee. i do  think that is accurate. i do  think his language was approved by the subcommittee. and certainly i am clear that it was  approved by the full committee. i just wanted to make those couple of corrections.
you may be sensing a turf battle. i am  providing any turf battle. that may be what you sense. i am just curious about this amendment you proposed here. this is the first i have heard about it. and i am the ranking member of the environment committee which deals with these matters. i never saw this before. and that may be fine. but i am just curious. and i think i am entitled to find out a little bit about what is in the amendment. i find it a curious one that you have the chairman of the nuclear regulatory commission on the group. and its seems to me if you were interested in nuclear safety. that is the person you would turn to. but the amendment goes further than that. who else do you have in there beside the secretary of energy.
. first. i would like to thank the manager of this bill for all he has done in connection with it. i k he made a commitment to senator coats the end of last year. and he followed through on that commitment and has driven our actions in the environment committee in trying to report something out because the distinguished senator from montana felt he made this commitment and was going to pursue it and fulfill that commitment. i think that is very hoable. and i k he has given a lot of time and careful thought and patience to this legislation. i also would like to thank the majority leader. who has permitted us to work on this for 3 days . which is a long time for a very small piece of legislation. next. i would like to commend the staff. senator coats had already mentioned sharon soderstrom and ziad ojakli. on his staff. and i k that senator baucus will mention those on his staff. i would like to join in tribute
. i think we should take a long look at the consequences of our actions. i must jay it is secret to anybody in this body that i have been a longtime proponent and supporter of the endangered species act and those acts that are supportive of the direction of the endangered species act. i k that the senator from washington will vigorously argue that we are  dealing with the endangered species act. and. indeed. in our discussions he had indicated that to an extent this may well be strengthening of the act. although i have trouble following that argument totally.
. regardless of what happens with this amendment. which i shall vote against. i hope that a longterm solution can be developed so every year we are  back on this problem. certainly everything i could do with the limited powers. whatever i might have. i would devote to being able to achieve that goal. because i hope that as we lecture the rest of the world. and particularly the south american and central american nations. that there is  necessarily a choice between the environment and jobs. that is the theme we are carrying. that is the language we use in connection with amazonia. those of us who have been there. have met with the brazilians and others. and all we are saying is. it is  necessarily a conflict between environment and jobs. i hope we could put behind us this conflict that seems constantly to be there in this particular section that says it is either the environment or jobs. and. indeed. some have said. and very sincerely. that if it is a choice of the spotted owl or if it is a choice of jobs. it is a tragedy. but the spotted owl has to go. so be it. well. i hope that is  necessarily the choice we have to make. i hope we do  have to destroy the owl. and by the way. it is  just the owl. there is a whole series of other species including the salmon. as those who come from the area well k. that could be threatened as well.
. i would like to seek a point of clarification regarding h.r. 2152 from senator packwood. my understanding is that title vii of h.r. 2152. a bill to enhance the effectiveness of the united nations international driftnet fishery conservation program. as passed by the house. amended the coastal barriers resources act [cbra] which i within the exclusive jurisdiction of the committee on environment and public works. i also understand that the committee on commerce has deleted title vii and that h.r. 2152 as amended by the commerce committee and under consideration by the senate contains amendments to cbra. is this correct.
. the amendment offered by the distinguished republican leader prohibits the use of funds by the environmental protection agency [epa] to regulate process wastewater or phosphogypsum waste from the production of phosphoric acid under the resource conservation and recovery act during fiscal year 1993. phosphoric acid. a primary ingredient in farm fertilizers. is an important commodity to our nations farmers. in a 1991 final rulemaking. the epa found that process wastewater from phosphoric acid production is hazardous in almost all cases. it also found that the current management practices appear to pose substantial risks of environmental contamination and impacts through groundwater and surface water pathways. there are 20 facilities currently engaged in phosphoric acid production. of those 20 facilities. 16 have monitoring data available. unfortunately. epa has found groundwater contamination at 15 of these 16 facilities. despite epas findings. the agency determined that it would regulate these wastes under the toxic substances control act [tsca] as opposed to regulating them under the resource conservation and recovery act [rcra]. while only 20 facilities produce phosphoric acid. these facilities generate huge volumes of waste. worried that regulation of this waste under rcra might bankrupt the fertilizer industry. epa decided to attempt regulation of the waste under the more flexible authorities of tsca. it is important to e. however. that epa explicitly retained its authority to regulate this waste under subtitle c of rcrathe hazardous waste subtitleshould the agency find it necessary to do so. under the authority of tsca. epa is currently in the process of putting together a task force composed of representatives from the fertilizer industry. the environmental community. and other interested parties. their task is to devise a regulatory scheme that is protective of our health and environment and. at the same time. is responsive to the financial realities of this industry. i am hopeful and would welcome the development of a protective. yet cost effective. regulatory scheme under tsca to address the dangers posed by this industrys current waste management practices. as long as the epa. the fertilizer industry. and other interested parties work together to fashion such a solution in a timely manner. epa may never need to resort to its authority under rcra subtitle c. the amendment offered by the senator from kansas will provide these parties with an entire fiscal year to achieve this goal free from the threat or regulation under rcra. should these efforts fail. however. resulting in the worsening of existing ground water contamination. it would certainly be advisable for epa to exercise its authority and responsibility under rcra to ensure that human health and the environment are protected.
. i send a substitute amendment to the desk on behalf of myself. senator lautenberg. the chairman of the subcommittee with jurisdiction over the safe drinking water act. and on behalf. also. of senator durenberger. who is the ranking member of the subcommittee dealing with safe drinking water. this amendment is cosponsored by the majority leader. senator mitchell. who has long been a member of the environment and public works committee. and the chairman of the agricultural committee. senator leahy.
. all of us have experience in dealing with deficits. but dealing with the deficit does  require that we ige the facts or abandon all previous commitments. some commitments. especially those to public health and safety. must be maintained in good times and tough times. every senator on this floor talks about preventive medicine. talks about the value of an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. and if there is ever an example of it. it is in providing safe drinking water. . let us look at the costs imposed on local governments by the safe drinking water act. people will say. oh. well. do  worry about the states. they are  involved with this. it comes back down to the local municipalities. we have heard some figures bandied around here of what it is going to cost each community. we recognize that state spending is an integral part of the effort. most of it is borne by the local drinking water suppliers. that is where the real spending comes from. let us look at the practical effects of the amendment offered by the senator from new mexico. what he does is:have a 2year moratorium on the implementation of any new requirements except for lead and copper. ashe has pointed out. the facts are that the only new requirements that will go into effect over the next 2 years are the socalled phase 2 standards that i mentioned before. the testing for the 26 additional contaminants. so that is what we are talking about. we are  talking about 111. we are  talking 96. we are talking of 26 additional tests that will be conducted by the local drinking water suppliers. epa has estimated that this monitoring requirement will cost allall of themall the local drinking water suppliers in the nation. $24 million a year. is that a lot of money. yes. $24 million is a lot. but consider this. first of all there are 240 million people in the country. so. 324 million--somebody can do the arithmetic: 10 cents a person. 10 cents a person for the additional testing. we hear all kinds of statements here. what this is going to come to. consider this. americans already are spending. for bottled water per year. $2 billion. they spend $2 billion in order to get safe drinking water because they do  trust the water that is currently coming out of their taps. if we spend $2 billion per year. it seems to me. to spend 524 million to guarantee the safety of our tap water does  seem to be too much. let me look at the small communities. they are the ones we are concerned about. some of these tests are expensive. dioxin. $1.000 to test for that. if you live in a big city those costs can be spread out. we all recognize that. but in a small community with a few families. expensive tests can be a burden. we recognize this. and that is why. as i previously mentioned. the community can obtain a waiver.  even test for dioxin if there is  a history of dioxin in the area. and. if there is a history of dioxin. it ought to be tested for. as i mentioned before. for those small systems. if it does  show up the first time you do  even have to test for it subsequently. but it is important to remember that these waivers do exist and can be applied for and will be granted. that flexibility. it seems to me. is extremely important to remember. epa estimates that. if a state takes full advantage of the waiver and other flexibility. the maximum monitoring costs under the new rules for any household. even in the smallest system. will be $13 a year. that is absent the chafeelautenberg amendment--13 a year. we have heard discussion here of 51.000 a year per familythat just is  accurate. all we can go by is what we receive. the estimates from the epa: $13 a year. and under the chafeelautenberg amendment. this would be reduced to about $4 per year per household. there has been a discussion here of trace amounts. in other words you recognize that. under the chafeelautenberg amendment. if you test and it does  show up you do  have to test anymore for that year. but the concerns about trace amounts are if you test and there is a little teeny amount. if there are trace amounts under the rules the epa functions under. you can have reduced requirements for the type of testing. in other words you do  have to conduct the fullblown test. i would like to return for one m ment. if i might. to the domenj amendment and discuss one of i major provisions. apparently one pu pose of the senators moratorium is provide time for the national acaden of sciences to conduct a study of t contaminants that are  regulat under the safe drinking water act see if they present a public health ris one of the reasons we are having this is so we can have the natron academy of sciences conduct a study
 it says here. "t1 is to be conducted in consultation wi the director of the national acader of sciences. the list of contaminar pursued for purposes--" so forth and on. i would just like to finish. if i cou. the point i am making. it would seem. viewing this amen ment. that one of the reasons. for t moratorium is for this study to ta place. what i would like to point out this study has already taken place. i discussed with the senator from ni mexico yesterday. it is a good idea have the study and the study has tak place. here it is. five volumes. five vi umes of study. all this has been dot this is  something that just bunch of dogooders over at epa su denly rushed into and said. let us cau a lot of trouble to the local water su pliers. here was this study. this w part of the safe drinking water act 1974. these studies were completed on 4 years. everybody here ks wh the national academy of sciences ai they are a very prestigious grot they are  an arm of the fedei government. they are an independe organization and they conducted t study. what is the title of it. "-drinki water and health." we are dealt with serious business here. . i urge support for the lautenbergchafee amendment. in review. in 1986 we passed a law to rebuild the safe drinking water act so americans could go on having confidence in plentiful safe water that is delivered to kitchen faucets. garden hoses. showers. dishwashers and billions of gallons at bargain prices. and we certainly have that in the united states today. but the safe drinking water act is  painless. and we admit that. it is going to require real investment. i must say.. i am perplexed . by the amendment of the senator from new mexico because he even does  say get rid of all this. he says have a moratorium. at some point we have to step up and "bite the bullet" as they say in the trade. it is  going to go away. testing for mercury is  going to somehow disappear. even under his moratorium we are going to be back to this. how are we going to relieve ourselves of anything by postponing things.  there is a real investment required to keep our drinking water safe. it is a reasonable investment when you consider the alternative. i will tell you the people in pawtucket and central falls and cumberland. ri. would certainly wish some investment had been made to keep their water safe. so i hope the senate has an appreciation for this truly precious resource. i hope we will vote to finish the effort that we have begun. so i do urge my colleagues to support the chafeelautenberg amendment and to preserve the safe drinking water act. i thank the chair.
i am happy to offer my support to the select committee on indian affairs with regard to addressing these complex issues. the environment committees initial concern. expressed on july 2. 1992. was that provisions of s. 1687 where perhaps duplicative of provisions in a s. 976. the resource conservation and recovery act amendments of 1992. that measure sets forth a comprehensive process through which tribal governments may achieve primary enforcement responsibility. and grant funding. to regulate solid and hazardous waste facilities on reservation lands. in addition. the environment committee expressed concern that certain provisions of s. 1687 provided for a system of solid and hazardous waste management on indian lands that is possibly inconsistent with the terms of the solid waste disposal act. based upon our meetings with the select committee staff. the environment committee has learned thats. 1687 is  intended to be :inconsistent with the solid waste disposal act. in addltion the environment- committee understands there are unique issues which are  addressed in s. 976. etheless. the environment committee has concerns which must be addressed before this measure can move forward. unfortunately. that will  be possible in the time remaining in this session. the environment committee recognizes the federal government has a trust responsibility to indian tribal governments. the environment committee also recognizes that tribal governments. unlike. local and state governments. must work cooperatively with three federal agencies in matters involving waste disposal and management. these are certainly factors which should be considered. with these concerns in mind. i look forward to the environment committee working with the select committee in shaping a bill that will allow tribal governments to fulfill their objective of maintaining a clean environment. the protection of the environmental quality of indian reservations is in the best interests of all residents of a reservation community as well as of adjacent indian communities.
i want to thank senator hollings for his constructive effort to develop a balanced and workable coastal monitoring program. i agree that the monitoring program is an important step toward assuring the qxuality of our coastal resources and i agree that the program is most appropriately the joint jurisdiction of the commerce committee and the environment and public works committee. on which i serve as ranking miity member.
. h.r. 6072 calls for the secretary of interior to conduct expedited negotiations for a land exchange at the kenal national wildlife refuge in alaska. this bill would affect the management of the national wildlife system. which is within the jurisdiction of the environment and public works committee. i would like to. clarify several points regarding this. legislation with my colleague from alaska. senator stevens. first. my understanding of the bill is that the secretary of interior is required to consider. but is  bound by. an independent thirdparty appraisal which assigns ecoic value to rec. reational and habitat values. is that correct.
. today. i am pleased to introduce a bill to reauthorize the national fish and wildlife foundation establishment act. senator mitchell and i sponsored the original legislation creating the nationalfish and wildlife foundation in 1984. and i am happy to report that the accomplishments of the foundation have greatly exceeded our expectations. the foundation was established as a federally chartered but private and independent. profit organization to serve as a link between government and private efforts to conserve our fish and wildlife resources. the foundation is authorized to receive private donations and matching federal appropriations to benefit fish and wildlife conservation. since its establishment in 1984. the foundation has funded 660 projects. providing over $79 million for fish and wildlife conservation projects--of which only $27 million was federal appropriations. the foundation successfully raised the remaining $52 million from private and other federal sources. dollar for dollar the foundation is one of the most effective organizations for implementing conservation projects. matching every federal dollar with $2 in federal contributions. as impressive as these numbers may be. the foundations role as a catalyst for conservation efforts goes beyond the specific projects funded. the foundation has been at the forefront of the effort to form partnerships between government agencies. conservation organizations. individuals. and corporations interested in conservation of our natural resources.  only do thege partnerships help to stretch scarce federal dollars. but they encourage greater public participation in conservation programs. setting the stage for future initiatives. the foundation has also been instrumental in getting important projects off the ground by providing seed money and expertise. including the th american waterfowl management plan. an initiative to benefit declining populations of waterfowl. partners in flight. a program to conserve neotropicai migratory birds. including songbirds. and conservation training and education programs. the foundation. with our support. will continue to be in the forefront of inative and costeffective methods to advance the conservation of our fish and wildlife. i invite my colleagues to support my efforts to reauthorize the foundation.* by mr. feingold:
. i appreciate the efforts of the principal sponsor of this bill. senator lautenberg. in developing this bill. along with several members of the environment and public works committee. including myself. i look forward to working with him and others on this legislation in the coming months.*
i also would like to add that compliance withthe new subtitle d landfill criteria raises a number of complex issues. the distinguished chairman of the committee on environment and public works. senator baucus. and i in my capacity as the ranking member of that committee. recently received a request from senator kassebaum asking us to hold a hearing to consider the impact of the subtitle d regulations. it is clear to me that a hearing on this subject is necessary to help us determine a reasoned course of action.
. the distinguished senior senator from utah certainly raises good points. but i do believe those points were addressed earlier today. let us just look over what has happened already today. the johnston amendment. for example. mandates new comparative risk assessment. this is going to force epa to prioritize. moments ago. we adopted the murkowski amendment. that deals with the costbenefit analysis. as you k. what it does is inform the public. the costbenefit analysis is made. so we require the epa to determine and publish this data. but the trouble. it seems to me. with the amendment of the senator from utah. is that good parts of it have already been addressed. and the difficult parts of it go too far. it creates. indeed. havoo. i would like to. if i might. address a couple of questions to the senator from utah. because it seems to me what he is saying is that if congress passes this legislation. which subsequently requires regulation. then he is going to turn it over to these bureaucrats to determine whether or  we want to go forward with it. so what he seems to be saying is. we have met the enemyit is like pogowe have met the enemy. and they are us. the evils reside here in the congress of the united states. in the senate and the house. because we have made these assessments. we have determined that we are going to go ahead and do it. let me ask the senator from utah a question. if i might. if i might refer back to the illustration i gave before. the senator was here in 1990 when we passed the clean air act. the clean air act. in that. we said we are going to phase out cfcs. chlorofluorocarbons. why are we going to phase them out. because they do damage to the ozone layer. under the senators proposal. this is what would happen. clearly. when we passed the statute such as we did in connection with the cfcs in the clean air act in 1990. there had to be some followon regulations. so under his proposal. this is what would occur. if i am wrong. i would be delighted to be straightened out. we in the senate and house determined we are going to get rid of cfcs. then it goes to the bureaucrats. the bureaucrats then. under his proposal. would sit down and make an analysis. if you get rid of all cfcs. with substitutes. there are  going to be any refrigerators left in the united states. ir conditioners. likewise. so there has to be a substitute. . du pont and other companies have developed alternate cfcs. but these are expensive. it is clearly easy to tabulate what these are going to cost. let us say it is koing to cost $40 billion. so then the bureaucrats would sit down and say: let us see. $40 billion to get rid of some holes in the ozone layer. we will figure that out. we are going to put a cost to those holes. we figure that those holes do  really cause that much trouble. oh. yeah. some people may get skin cancer. you can figure that out. so we come to a conclusion that the damage to the ozone layer is only $10 billion. and the cost to replace the cfcs is $40 billion. therefore. regulation. we will  go forward. who is in charge. we have made a calculated vote right here in the senatewe were all presentwe were going to get rid of cfcs. we made the determination. under the senators proposal. as i understand it. we do  have that right anymore. we are turning that over .to the bureaucrats. have i missed a beat in here. if so. i would be glad to be enlightened.
. the amendment i am offering is simple: it will establish the title of the new department as the department of environmental protection. i feel strongly that we must keep the concept of protection in the title of this department. i doubt that we could reach quick agreement on any meaningful mission statement for the new department. but surely we can agree that protecting the environment is among the highest purposes for which government is constituted. twenty years ago we undertook a new and difficult challenge as a nation. we saw that life and its most enriching experiences can only be sustained by careful stewardship of our natural environment. we turned to government. principally through the laws  administrated by epa. to protect our common interest in the quality of our air. waters and lands. these laws have been effective. the quality of our air and water has improved. public lands and threatened wildlife resources are being restored. untold damage has been avoided. compared to other. recent federal efforts. for instance. the budget process or the war on drugs or energy policy. our laws and programs to protect the environment have been a real success. twenty years ago. environmental protection as a purpose of the federal government may have been a radical idea. today. it is an accomplished fact. it is time to recognize the reality by creating the department of environmental protection. incorporating environmental protection into the title of this new agency will leave doubt regarding its primary mission. i urge its adoption. i want to thank the chairman of the committee. senator glenn. and my distinguished friend from delaware. senator roth. for their help and support.
. this amendment would override key portions of the clean water act. the members of the environment and public works committee are working on reauthorization of the clean water act. as a matter of fact. the chairman of our committee has said that that will be his first priority. and we will take that up very shortly. indeed. we are going to begin hearings in june on the subject of the clean water act. it seems to me very clear that this amendment should be considered within the process of reauthorizing the clean water act.
madam president. the stated purpose of this amendment is to simplify the process of making determinations regarding wetlands on agricultural land. however. it seems to me very clear that rather than simplifying the federal review of wetlands activities. this amendment inserts a new organization. the soil conservation service. into the wetlands regulatory role and its complicates rather than simplifies the regulatory process. this amendment would transfer responsibility for identifying wetlands and developing mitigation. mitigation is where you develop new wetlands when you are perhaps destroying old wetlands. what this would do is transfer responsibility for identifying these wetlands into developing mitigation and restoration plans on "agricultural lands" under section 404 of the clean water act. they would transfer that from the corps of engineers and the epa to the soil conservation service. once the soil conservation service makes a wetlands determination. then the rest of the section 404 process reverts back to the corps of engineers and the epa. so it seems to me what we have is an extremely convoluted and complicated arrangement that is being proposed. what it would do is require aher federal agency. namely the soil conservation service. to become involved in the 404 permitting process. i am  sure how that simplifies matters. it seems to me. madam president. important to remember that in most cases. farming activities are  even subject to regulation under sections 404 of the clean water act. ongoing agricultural activities are usually exempt under section 404(f) of the clean water act. . furthermore. according to a regulatory guidance letter issued by the corps. prior converted crop lands. as defined under swampbuster language. these prior converted crop lands are longer subject to regulation under section 404. the corps ts planning to incorporate this policy into its 404 regulations. which will be issued in midjune. furthermore. this amendment exempts from section 404 of the clean water act any agricultural land or any activity on agricultural land that is determined to be exempt from the swampbuster requirements under the food security act. what is. going to happen here. it seems to me. is the creation of endless arguments about what is "airicultural land" and. therefore. who is in charge of making wetlands determinations and specifying the mitigation activities that have to take place. for example. under the amendment. does land have to be in agricultural production at the time of the wetlands determination or just in production in 3 of the prior 5years. as required under the swampbuster language. only recently. after a long. difficult process. the army corps of engineers and epa agreed to use the same wetlands deliberation method. we finally got agreement. the agriculture department. however. currently uses a different delineation process. so how is that for a complication. adopting this amendment will result in less rather than more uniformity in wetlands determination. it seems to me what everybody wants is some uniformity so they can understand what is a wetland. and  we have a common delineation between the two principal players. namely. epa and the corps of engineers. and  they are inserting. or the proposal is to insert. aher group that has aher definition. so it seems to me this amendment raises more questions than it answers. next year. the national academy of sciences will issue its report on wetlands delineation. in the meantime. it seems to me illadvised to once again change the way wetlands are delineated under section 404. so because i think that this amendment will create more confusion than it will simplification in the wetlands regulatory process. i urge that it be rejected. i want to thank the manager for the time.
. 20 years ago. congress acted to stem the loss of living species and protect our natural heritage. this landmark legislation. the endangered species act. had a seemingly simple purpose: to conserve endangered and threatened species and the ecosystems upon which they depend. the act recognizes a fundamental truth that the faster humans extinguish other forms of life the more we imperil ourselves the endangered. species act has proven to be one of our most effective conservation tools and a model for similar laws that have been adopted around the world. species. including our nations symbolthe bald eagleas well as the peregrine falcon. the whooping crane. the brown pelican. and the american alligator. among others. have made dramatic comebacks due to the protections afforded by the act. today. senator b.aucus and i are introducing a bill to reauthorize and improve the endangered species act. we worked cooperatively with chairman studds of the house merchant marine and fisheries committee who is introducing similar legislation in the house. the aim of the bill is to avoid crisis management by encouraging earlier and more comprehensive protection and recovery of species. it builds upon the strengths of the existing act to place new emphasis on the conservation of ecosystems rather than individual species. it encourages that listing. recovery planning. and habitat conservation planning all be done. where possible. for groups of species that are dependent upon the same habitat or ecosystem. this multispecies approach will enable us to conserve more species at a lesser cost than the current speciesbyspecies method. the lesson of the last 20 years has been that the longer we wait to protect species. the more difficult and costly it is. therefore. the bill encourages federal agencies to identify and take steps to protect declining species and groups of species that depend upon a common ecosystem before they are listed. the bill emphasizes the importance of recovering species to the point that they longer need the protections of the act and can be delisted. in part. the bill improves the recovery planning process by setting deadlines for the completion of recovery plans and requiring that the plans contain a detailed blueprint of the specific steps that need to be taken to achieve recovery. under the bill. recovery plans must also include measures to minimize the social and ecoic impacts of achieving recovery without compromising the fundamental goals of the act. this provision responds to concerns that. the act does  adequately consider the costs of protecting species. the bill .encourages private landowners to conserve endangered species by setting up an incentives program which authorizes federal assistance for private property owners to conserve species on their land. it also allows private landowners to obtain a conservation planning permit for species that are candidates for listing. before the species is listed. these provisions reward private landowners who take early action to conserve declining speclesthe bill also directs the secretary of the interior. in consultation with the secretary of the treasury. to analyze federal tax provisions and other government programs which serve as incentives or disincentives to private landowners to conserve habitat for listed or candidate species. the report would include recommendations on how these policies could be changed to promote species conservation. states play a crucial role in the conservation of fish and wildlife and the bill provides for a stronger partnership between the federal government and the states in conservation efforts. first. it provides a greater role for states in the listing. dellating. and recovery process. second. it provides interestfree loans to states to develop habitat conservation plans. these plans provide for the conservation of species while allowing for development activities to occur. under the bill both listing and delisting decisions will continue to be based on the best scientific data available. the bill improves the scientific review of these decisions by establishing a scientific peerreview process to examine listing and dellsting proposals for which the scientific basis is under dispute. why is it important that we preserve the widest possible variety of living species. consider the benefits that humans derive from natural diversity. more than half of all medicines today can be traced to wild organisms. biological resources are important to the development of hybrid crops for farming as well as to other ecoic activities including fishing. hunting. and tourism each species that becomes extinct means kledge forfeited and opportunities to improve our way of life lost. the presence of one or more endangered species in an area may indicate that an entire ecosystem--consisting of hundreds or possibly thousands of speciesis in decline. the introduction of this bill is only a starting point for the reauthorization process and other changes to the act will be considered during the hearing process..this bill demonstrates that we can continue our commitment to conserve endangered species in a manner that is more efficient and less costly for private landowners and local communities. and i urge my colleagues to cosponsor this legislation.*
. secretary babbitt. i believe. is off to an excellent start in his attempts to find inative ways to assist private landowners and communities in complying with the endangered species act will avoiding the socalled train wrecks which he has pointed out. so i look forward to working with mr. frampton as he continues this approach. and i urge my colleagues to support his confirmation.
. nafta is good for the environment. it is good for the environment of the united states and it is good for the environment of mexico. i do hope it will be overwhelmingly approved  just by the u.s. senate but in the house of representatives likewise. i want to thank the chair.
. i would like to direct two questions to the distinguished chairman of the commerce. science. and transportation committee. my first question is whether the passage of this act in any way affects the jurisdiction of the environment and public works committee with respect to the atlantic striped bass conservation act.
 bush in 1989. was a response to two facts. first. waterfowl and other migratory bird resources do  recognize political boundaries. second. populations of these birds have drastically declined in this century as a result of extensive wetlands losses in many parts of th america. the th american act provides federal grants to encourage partnerships to protect and restore wetlands and to accomplish the goals of the th american waterfowl management plan--developed to reverse the decline of waterfowl populations. any grant made under the th american act must be matched at least onetoone by federal moneys. since the act was first funded in 1990. over 260 proposals" have been approved and received about $91 million in federal dollars. these moneys have been: matched by more than $187 million in partner fundsa twotoone match. these projects have managed to improve about 5 million acres of wetlands in the united states. canada. and mexico--an astounding accomplishment over only 3 years. e of this would be possible without the dedication and work of a large number of private conservation groups across the united states. canada4 and mexico. ducks unlimited and the nature conservancy have been particularly active. as well as many other local and national conservation groups too numerous to mention. in addition. many of the projects have received valuable cooperation from and the participation of th american farmers. the wetlands conservation projects funded by the act are diverse. creative. and tailored to meet local circumstances. a 1.8 jmillion grant to restore wetlands and control erosion in the floodplain of the minnesota riverin combination with $5 million in state funds and private donatlons4s financing one of the largest wetlands restoration and wildlife conservation projects ever undertaken in minnesota. it will protect and restore 8.400 acres of wetlands. in california. rice farmers are encouraged to keep rice fields flooded for migratory waterfowl during the winterproviding thousands of acres of overwintering habitat. a recently approved technical assistance project will assist the government of mexico in developing wetlands resources geographic information system. to inventory and provide information about mexicos relatively unkn wetlands. the bill senator mitchell and i are introducing today would increase the authorization for the th american act for $15 million to $20 million for 1995 and 1996. and up to $40 million in the year 2000. in my view. this is one of the most cost efficient investments in fish and wildlife conservation we can make. under this act. private and public partners are practicing the cooperative ecosystem conservation others are only talking about. we should continue this partnership for wetlands and wildlife by reauthorizing the th american wetlands conservation act. in recognition of the great success of the th american act. the bill does  make any changes beyond reauthorizing the act at this point. there will be an opportunity to explore possible improvements to the act when the bill is considered by the committee on environment and public works. i urge all of my colleagues to support this program and to cosponsor this bill. by mr. baucus (for himself and
madam president. last friday.. we all received the startling news that senator george mitchell of maine will  be seeking reelection. he. of course. as we all k. is the majority leader in the senate. i want to e that i consider this to be a tremendous loss to the senate and to the nation. george mitchell has clearly been a towering figure in this u.s. senate. he is very. very bright and is very. very wise. those are two completely separate qualifications. i think we all k people who are very bright but they are  all that wise. but george mitchell combined intellectual brilliance with a wisdom that has given great benefit to this nation of ours. george mitchell further. in my judgment. is one of the best speakers in the u.s. senate. when he comes on the floor to argue a point. few senators can match his skill as a proponent of a measure. madam president. it has been my privilege to have served with george mitchell when he first came here. on three committees at the same time. the intelligence committee. the environment committee. and the finance committee. then. of course. due to the changes that have to be made. we both moved off the intelligence committee. but ever since he came here. he and i have served on the environment committee and the finance committee. . i want to particularly discuss for a few minutes his role in connection with the environment and the protective measures that have been taken since he has been on that committee. every single environmental measure that has come out of that committee has the hand of george mitchell upon it. i particularly think of the major measures. such as the clean water bill and especially the clean air bill. we have a clean air bill  in the united states because of two georges. george bush. our president. who said he would sign such a measure. as opposed to his predecessor president reagan. and george mitchell who brought that measure through the committee and on to the floor. there is  a single senator who was involved with that measure who does  recall the countless hours of meetings that we had in senator mitchells office with him there as frequently as he could be. and senator baucus there when senator mitchell could  be. senator baucus was there all the time. but senator mitchell was presiding when he could get free from his onerous duties as majority leader. we  have an excellent clean air bill. and that is because of george
madam president. i would like to direct a question on s. 1636 to my distinguished colleague. senator stevens. section 4(f) of 5. 1636 provides for the granting of permits under the marine mammal protection act for the incidental take of marine mammals that are designated as depleted because they are listed as endangered or threatened under the endangered species act. my understanding is that this provision does  affect any requirements of the endangered species act. including the requirements of section 7 of the endangered species act. is this correct.
. i would like to direct a question on s. 1636. as amended by the house. to my distinguished colleague. senator stevens. section 4(a) of s. 1636 provides for the granting of permits under the marine mammal protection act for the incidental take of marine mammals that are designated as depleted because they are listed as endangered or threatened under the endangered species act. my understanding is that this provision does  affect any requirements of the endangered species act. including the requirements of section 7 of the endangered species act. is that correct.
madam president. likewise. we think it is an excellent amendment. i k one who has worked harder on this whole safe drinking water business than the senior senator from new mexico. indeed it was he who got me interested in this subject. i can speak that he was the catalyst for everybody on the committee.but i do remember about 2 years ago when senator domenici brought the problems. particularly of the small water authorities. to our attention. so this is a continuation of his interest and able input into this. we are prepared to accept the amendment. and thank the distinguished senator.
madam president. i do want to reinforce the point that the chairman of the committee made about. the flexibility in this act ina very. very big section. and that is the capability of transferring a significant portion of- funds back and forth -between the safe drinking water revolving fund and the clean water fund. i this is a major change. i must say it was a change i greeted with .some trepidation. and indeed prevailed on the chairman to scale it back a bit. etheless. having been a gover. i am conscious of the flexibility that govers like. but we are certainly giving it to them in this particular area. i thank the chair.
. i wish to join with the floor manager of the bill. the chairman of our committee. in his views on this amendment. the committee. as perhaps has. been pointed out. the environment committee. has reported out a bill to reauthorize the clean water act. so that is done. that is out of the committee. we expect it to be up before the senate in several weeks. it seems to me the clean water act. since it. is the program that deals with sewage treatment. is where the senators amendment should be rather than the safe drinking water act which is before us . you also have the added problem the senator from montana just pointed out. there are a whole group of senators who want to tap into the $500 million that has been appropriated. and if we were to take up the senators amendment today. which provides for 100 percent financing for this facility. obviously it would bring all the others over hereand some who had  heard about itwho would feel distressed because they have agreed to hold back waiting for the clean water act to come through here. i really think that is the proper place to have this amendment. and also obviously what is going to happen is we are going to have to get together. those who have requests or demands xipon that half a billion dollars. whether it is tijuana or the california city opposite tijuana. wherever it be. boston harbor. all of this started as a coastal bill. so i think what we have to do is get those folks together and somehow divide it up in a fair way based upon the priority or the emergency presented. i listened to the senators presentation of what is taking place in ales. and i think he has a very strong case. but in all fairness i think the others should have an opportunity to present their case likewise.
madam president. i commend the senator from new hampshire for his interest in these unfunded federal mandates. he has spent a lot of time on this and is deeply concerned. he was a gover. as perhaps he has pointed out. so he has seen the effects of the federal government levying requirementson the states without fully funding them. however. it is hing unusual. i must say. although the clean water act and waste treatment requirements under that are  100 percent fully funded. as we all kthe state puts up some. the federal government puts up usually about 75 percent--but in the end the communities and the state have to obey. otherwise our waters would never be cleaned up. as i understand the amendment herecorrect me if i am wrongfirst. it deals solely with the safe drinking water act. second. as i understand it. it says that there can be requirements by the federal government levying on the communities requirements to keep their water clean unless the federal government has fully funded those requirements. as i understand. it is  quite that way. it says there can be fines levied for failure to comply. am i correct in that.
what the senator from new hampshire is saying. in effect. is that the federal government has ability to levy a safe drinking water requirement on a community unless the federal government is prepared to pay 100 percent of the funds required to comply with that demand by the fed.eral government. with those regulations.
madam president. i will just comment about the amendment which has been cleared on both sides. it deals with a persistent problem afflicting states trying to monitor addressing the monitoring and water quality issues of the safe drinking water act incurred by public water systems operated on an indian reservation. this is a situation that has been raised by the -utah division of safe drinking water. and this amendment addresses the problem. this is an amendment that we have examined on this side and think it is a good one. i urge its adoption.
. i want to assure the senator from new mexico. who has been vitally interested in this colonias situation. yes. we will give every effort to consider his special situation. the colonias situation. as it exists along the new mexicomexican border. for authorization for those funds that have been appropriated. obviously. there will be a large demand upon the funds. and the question will be how to set some form of priority. but the answer is. yes. the next bill probably will be the clean water bill. if that does  come up for some reason. then there is the water re.sources bill that clearly will come along. and we can consider it on one of those other twoi think the senator said on the next environment bill. there is a possibility that superfund might come along. and that would  really be the bill to put it on. so either the clean water bill or the water resources bill.
. i will be very brief because the chairman of the committee has touched on most of the issues. as i read this amendment. it would make the safe drinking water legislation a voluntary program. and yet each state would continue to receive the federal funds. it is a winwin situation. i must say. for the states. they do  have to enforce it. but they still get the funds. the current law. as was pointed out. provides that the states can. currently take over the administration of the program.. for some reason. wyoming has  chosen to do this. wyoming and the district of columbia are the only two entities in the united states that have chosen  to administer their own program. and so. undoubtedly. wyoming does run into direct contact with the epa in connection with this program because that is the -way they have chosen to do it. they may have perfectly good reasons. but it is unique that wyoming has  chosen. as has th dakota. rhode island. montana. and all the other states in the nation. to administer its own program. i. again. would like to reiterate the point that the chairman made that drinking water can present very serious health risks. the epa- has a science advisory board. the science advisory board ranked drinking water among the four most serious environmental risks to health that we have in our country. so it seems to me there is a federal role in protecting drinking water for the very reasons that were pointed outbecause of the mobility of our population. the transient nature that we have. and having one set of uniform standards across the country. it seems to me. is appropriate. are we going to ask every state to try to develop its own standards. are we going to have 50 different sets. this is a tremendous burden to impose on the states. i think this piece of legislation we have before us. as the senator from wyoming pointed out. goes a long way to take care of the particular problems of the small water supply systems. so. therefore. i reluctantly oppose the amendment by the senator from wyoming and hope we could vote on it fairly soon.
. i rise cluding senators stevens. nickles. today to pay tribute to a dramatically and byrd. whose support has been critical to the th american programs continued success. in recognition of this impressive record. i was pleased to cosponsor. along with senator mitchell. a bill to reauthorize the th american act. which the congress approved last month. the th american wetlands conservation act is a landmark law. which has already made a major contribution to the conservation of this nations wildlife. it will benefit the natural resources of this continent and will be an enduring legacy of the environmental leadership of senator mitchell. the success of the wetlands conservatioh act is proof that one senatrgeorge mitchell in this casecan be an extraordinary force for good. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article be printed in the record.
. the environment and public works committee has adopted an amendment that revises the committees rules of procedure. i ask unanimobs consent that a copy of the revised rules be printed in the record.
madam president. first i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from arkansas for letting us interrupt the sequence. last week. madam president. following the inspiring remarks by that very senior senator from arkansas. there were several very eloquent and moving statements made on this floor regarding the battle for iwo jima and the 50th anniversary which we are commemorating currently. over the next several days. there will be additional statements dealing with that battle which many believe was the most ferocious of the pacific war. the actual invasion commenced on february 19. 1945. with the battle lasting 35 days. on february 22. 50 years ago yesterday. dday plus 3. marines from the 4th and 5th divisions continued their relentless attack against entrenched enemy positions on iwo jima. it was very difficult going. the first 2 bloody days on the island netted gaifls at a high price in marines killed and woundedan indication of what was going to come in the succeeding 32 additional days of combat. the job of taking mount suribachi. the 556foot high extinct volcaat the southern end of iwo jima. fell to the 28th marine regiment commanded by col. harry e. liversedge. on the slopes of mount suribachi. the japanese had constructed an exceedingly clever labyrinth of dugin gun positions for coast defense. artillery. mortars and machine gun emplacements. these defensive positions were accompanied by an elaborate cave and tunnel system. from the volca rimthat is the top of mount suribachieverything that went on at both sets of the invasion beaches and. indeed. on most of the island. could be observed. mount suribachi was a position that had to be taken by the marines. the men of the 28th marine division were the ones that did it. just 50 years ago today. february 23. 1945. mount suribachi was captured by those valiant marines. and so i think it is only fitting. madam president. that we do take a few minutes to recall the heroism and the constancy and valor of those marines who seized that position.
madam president. first of all. this is legislation on an appropriations bill. and i think that is improper to start with. but more than that. it is absolutely clear that in the environment and public works committee we are going to deal with the endangered species act this year. that act is coming up for reauthorization and. indeed. it has  been reauthorized in several years. but we are going to reauthorize it. we are going to review it in connection with all the problems that have been cited so frequently. i just think it is a mistake for us to be going at this piecemeal with every state which has a particular problem with the endangered. species act. to bring it forward in this piecemeal fashion. we are going to go at it in a very thoughtful way with hearings. with the administration testifying. with those senators who wish to testify to come forward and. indeed. just today. we considered a measure by the senator from texas that would apply a 6month moratorium on further listings under the endangered species act. it deals solely with section 4. which is the listing section. and it does  deal with section 7. which is the conciliation section. that is quite proper. in our committee. we had the secretary of the interior. secretary bruce babbitt. testify. we had representatives from industry. and we had representatives from the affected areas and that is a very .thoughtful way to proceed on this. but i do deplore the procedure that is occurring tonight. which is to take a particular section and a particular area and say you can apply the endangered species act to that. . maybe there should  be colonies of woodpeckers provided for. but who ks what else might be encompassed under this procedure. so. madam president. i think it is very unfortunate that we are proceeding in this fashion. and i hope that the amendment will  be accepted.
. i thank the distinguished senior senator from th carolina and the junior senator. the junior senator is a very esteemed member of our committee. i k he will pay close attention to this whole matter. second. i thank the senior senator from hawaii for his support in this matter. when he spoke. it got everybodys attention. likewise. the distinguished senator from califorfilia. who so ably spoke on this previously.  it is up to us. we will get to it in the environment and public works committee.
. as i understand this amendment. it prohibits the secretary of agriculture from conducting new wetland delineations or certifications on agricultural lands. except at the request of a landowner or operator. for the purposes of carrying out wetland conservation programs under title xii of the 1985 food security act. the amendment does  apply to the wetlands regulatory program under section 404 of the clean water act. therefore. the grassley amendment in way restricts the secretary of agriculture. through the national resources conservation service. from delineating wetlands on agricultural lands forthe purposes of carrying out section 404 of the clean water act.
. to change the speed limit. but it was the view of the committee on environment and public works that we should change it. i congratulate the senator from ohio. it is my understanding. am i  correct. that the senator will be joining with the senator from new jersey to restore the speed limit.
the senator from maryland is absolutely correct. i stand admonished. i thank the senator from california for her kindness in letting me proceed as we did. otherwise. i would have been here. hanging upon every word of her amendment. but that might have taken me past important appointments at home. so i thank the lovely lady from california. i count it fortunate that she is a member of the environment and public works committee. where she does distinguished service. and has ever since she has been in the senate. . i thank the senator from california. the distinguished senator from maryland. and the floor manager of the bill. the hoable senator from new york.
i thank the senator from south dakota. the senator raises some understandable concerns regarding the imposition of civil and administrative penalties on municipalities working to comply with the clean water act. as my colleague ks. my committee will soon begin consideration of the reauthorization of the clean water act. i believe the senators proposed amendment is worth considering as part of the clean water act. in fact. in august. i intend to hold a hearing to discuss changes to the clean water act. rather than offer the amendment to the pending legislation. i invite the senator from south dakota to testify at this hearing on the very issue addressed in his amendment. further. the senator from south dakota has my assurance that the environment and public works committee will give his proposal full consideration during its deliberation of the clean water act. would that be satisfactory to the senator. i  of the subcommittee on drinking water. fisheries and wildlife. my chief concern in seeking to enact this measure is to prevent watertown. sd. from being forced to pay penalties that are accumulating while the city is devoting its limited resources to compliance with the law.
. i want to thank the distinguished senator from nevada for his very generous comments. i appreciate those. i would say that it was very nice of jim brady to say the things he did about me in his book. but. as in all circumstances. there are plenty there who did a lot more than i did. so. again. i thank my good friend from nevada. whom we are very privileged to have on the environment and public works committee. it is an interesting book. it does portray. i think. so well the harshness of the climate. which the senator from nevada just talked about. and that was brought home in statues that are there of these figures. these figures are  marching smartly forward. they are covered with their ponchos. they are trudging with their heads down. i was there today looking at it. and if there is one thing i must have said 1.000 times--when you have these units. you say to them constantly. "dont bunch up. dont bunch up." there is something about marines when they are marching. they want to get together. and of course. that -increases the chances" of more people being injured when mortars and artillery come along. so you try to keep them spread out. and i could see myself saying to these groups. "dont bunch up." i will say this. the figures were apart. but i could just hear myself saying. "spread out. spread out." so they are fairly well spread out. it is a very moving memorial. again. i urge everybody to go down and take a look at it when they can. i thank senator reid for his kind comments.
. neither the current endangered species act.  any of the proposed reform billsi k the senator from washington has one and. clearly. out of the environment committee we will have a reform billwill be successful without adequate funding. eliminating the funds necessary for the fish and wildlife service to do its job is counterproductive. the funding levels provided under the senate bills will exacerbate current problems with the esa. that is why it is so important this $4.8 million be added. i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from west virginia for his cooperation in this. the money does come from an area where he is deeply concerned. it is a cut to a modest degree4 percent in the bureau of mines. without the support of the distinguished senator from west virginia. who i can say is a real friend of mine since i have been herefor 19 years. it has been my privilege to have worked all that time with the senator from west virginia. and i am very proud that we have developed a friendship over that time. which i greatly value.
we would  like a friendship broken up over a mere $300.000. i thank. again. my cosponsor. whom i have worked with. senator reid. and the distinguished senator from new jersey. senator lautenbero. who has been very helpful and persistent in this. i must say we need lots of friends in the endangered species act. and we have two good ones in those two distinguished senators
. i wanted to thank the distinguished senator from maryland and also the manager of the bill. senator bnd. a member of the environment and public works committee. both have been very helpful to us as we worked our way through this amendment. i particularly am grateful to all staff who has also been very cooperative.
. superfund is broken. and today the environment and public works committee is putting forward a plan that will fix it. senator bob smith and his staff on the superfund subcommittee have produced a remarkable reform package. one deserving of widespread support. i want to make it clear to everyone that superfund reform will be a priority for the environment and public works committee for the rest of
. the senate received from the house today h.r. 436. the edible oil regulatory reform act. the bill would amend the oil production act of 1990. or opa90. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. which has exclusive jurisdiction over opa90. i support the senates passage of h.r. 436 by unanimous consent without delay. as a member of the environment and public works committee at the time the committee reported the bill that became opa90. i am well acquainted with the statute. as many of us will recall. the congress enacted opa90 in the aftermath of the catastrophic exxon valdez oilspill in prince william sound. ax. one of the key elements of opa90 requires all vessels to demonstrate a certain minimum level of financial responsibility to cover the costs of cleanup and damages in the event of an oilspill. the intent behind this requirement is to ensure that an entity that discharges oil into our natural environment pay for the costs and damages arising from the spill the u.s. taxpayer. this intent remains sound and should continue to inform the application of the statute. in passing opa90. however. congress did  intend to abandon the use of common sense. as the act currently stands. there is distinction made in the financial responsibility requirements for oilcarrying vessels. regardless of the kind of oil being carried. therefore. a vessel carrying sunflower oil is held to the same requirements under opa90 as a carrier of deep crude. h.r. 436 simply recognizes that vegetable oils and animal fats are different from petroleum oils. most important. they are different in ways that make it less likely that a spill of vegetable oil or animal fat will cause the same kind of environmental damage as would a petroleum oil spill. for example. vegetable oils and animal fats contain e of the toxic components of petroleum oil. this is  to suggest that a spill of vegetable oil or animal fat will have adverse environmental impacts. experience has shown to the contrary. especially in the case of the blue earth river spill in minnesota in the mid1960s. here it is important to e that h.r. 436 would  provide an exemption for carriers of vegetable oil or animal fats. they still would be subject to a mandatory minimum financial responsibility requirement under opathus. h.r. 436 will lend more rationality to the application of opa90 while maintaining the fundamental integrity of the acts purpose and approach. i commend my colleagues in the house for recognizing an opportunity to improve the implementation of an environmental statute. finally. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. let me say that i appreciate the willingness of all senators to expedite action on this bill. without unanimous consent. h.r. 436 would have been referred to the committee on environment and public works. my review of the bill has convinced me that it is a straightforward. commonsense piece of legislation on which committee hearings are unnecessary and to which i can lend my support.*
 clinton first recommended. states are authorized to reduce monitoring costs by developing their own testing requirements tailored to conditions in their region. under this bill. states may also grant variances to the small systems that can afford to comply with the national standard. thats reform. but were  rolling back health protection which is  provided. existing standard will be weakened. and the bill includes many new initiatives that will keep the national program moving forward. in addition to the srf grants. there are new programs to prevent pollution of source waters used for drinking water supply. there is a program to develop technical capacity at small systems. the bill pushes hard for more and better -science. including a research program to determine whether some groups like children or pregnant women or people with particular illnesses are more likely to experience adverse effects from drinking water contaminants. epa will continue to review new contaminants and to make decisions on the need for national standards. i want to thank each of my colleagues for the hard work they have put in on this bill. the star of this performance has been senator kempthorne. he has spent months going over every detail of the legislation. and senator baucus blazed the trail for us last year with his bill that passed the senate with almost unanimous support. my thank you also extends to the water office at epa and to the coalition. of state and local drinking water organizations that have worked so long and hard on this bill. their expertise has been available at every step and has been very helpful. i look forward to quick action by the committee and by the senate on this bipartisan bill.
. the senate recently received from the house h.r. 436. the edible oil regulatory reform act. the bill would amend the oil pollution act of 1990. or opa90. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. which has exclusive jurisdiction over opa90. i support the senates passage of h.r. 436 by unanimous consent without delay. as a member of the environment and public works committee at the time the committee reported the bill that became opa90. i am well -acquainted with the statute. as many of us will recall. the congress enacted opa90 in the aftermath of the. catastrophic exxon valdez oilspill in prince william sound. ak. one of the key elements of opa90 requires all vessels to demonstrate a certain minimum level of financial responsibility to cover the costs of cleanup and damages in the event of an oilspill. the intent behind this requirement is to ensure that an entity that discharges oil into our natural environment pay for the costs and damages arising fjrom the spill the u.s. taxpayer. this intent remains sound and should continue to inform the application of the statute. in passing opa90. however. congress did  intend to abandon the use of common sense. as the act currently stands. there is distinction made in the financial responsibility requirements for oilcarrying vessels. regardless of the kind of oil being carried. therefore. a vessel carrying sunflower oil is held to the same requirements under opa90 as a carrier of deep crude. h.r. 436 simply recognizes that vegetable oils and animal fats are different from petroleum oils. most important. they are different in ways that make it less likely that a spill of vegetable oil or animal fat will cause the same kind of environmental damage as would a petroleum oilspill. for example. vegetable oils and animal fats contain e of the toxic components of petroleum oil. this is  to suggest that a spill of vegetable oil or animal fat will have adverse environmental impacts. experience has shown to the contrary. especially in the case of the blue earth river spill in minnesota in the mid1960s. here it is important to e that h.r. 436 would  provide an exemption for carriers of vegetable oil or animal fats. they still would be subject to a mandatory minimum financial responsibility requirement under opathus. h.r. 436 will lend more rationality to the application of opa90 while maintaining the fundamental integrity of the acts purpose and approach. i commend my colleagues in the house for recognizing. an opportunity to improve the implementation of an environmental statute. finally. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. let me say that i appreciate the willingness of all senators to expedite action on this bill. without unanimous consent. h.r. 436 would have been referred to the committee on environment and public works. my review of the bill has convinced me that it is a straightforward. commonsense piece of legislation on which committee hearings are unnecessary and to which i can lend my support.
. last month the environmental law institute [eli] met here in washington to bestow its highest ho. the env1ronmental leadership award. to a well kn. internationally respected businessman. lawyer. public servant and republican.  of the board of browningferris industries. inc.. one of the nations largest waste management companies. bills breadth of experience gives him a unique and valuable perspective on the current state and future of environmental protection in the united states. whats more. his career represents a shining example of the interaction between business and environmental protection. mr. ruckelshaus acceptance speech underscored the fundamental need for a clean environment and outlined a program to reform our current system of environmental protection. most importantly. his remarks focused  on tying the environmental1 protection agencys hands. but allowing epa to get the environmental job done. on recent criticism of environmental protection. mr. ruckelshaus concluded: * * * there is a cottage industry  writing books and articles stating that many of our environmental concerns are a lot of hooey. * * * my answer to that is the same as it has been for a number of years. our efforts in america are  about controlling a few chemicals or saving a few species. there are more than five billion people on this globe living in underdeveloped nations who want to live as well as we do materially. and they are going to try to get there. if they all try to get there in the same way we got there. wastefully. scattering pollution. unduly impacting our natural resource base. then all of us are in a world of trouble. it was a thoughtprovoking speech from an advocate for both business and the environmenta perspective overshadowed lately by the rush to turn back the calendar to a day that has truly come. and gonewhen our resources were believed to be limitless and immune from harm. with several environmental statutes currently before the congress for reauthorization. including the safe drinking water act. superfund. and the clean water act. his speech is especially timely. i congratulate bill for receiving elis 1995 environmental leadership award and ask that the text of his remarks as well as dr. schmidheinys be printed in the record.
the pending amendment to the coast guard reauthorization bill clarifies the financial responsibility requirements for offshore facilities under the oil pollution act of 1990. or "opa90." issues related to such requirements lie within the exclusive jurisdiction of the senate committee on environment and public works. as chairman of that committee. i join senator stevens as a cosponsor of the amendment. i also want to take a moment to provide the background of the amendment and to explain the understanding on which it is based. earlier this year senator breaux introduced a bill. s. 33. that addresses the matters contained in this amendment and was referred to the committee on environment and public works. although we did  hold a formal hearing on the bill. efforts to amend opa90 to clarify its offshore facility financial responsibility requirements have been ongoing for several months. the house included such an amendment in its version of the coast guard reauthorization bill. h.r. 1361. upon being received in the senate. h.r. 1361 was referred to the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. recognizing and respecting the fact that opa90s financial responsibility requirements are within the jurisdiction of the environment and public works committee. the committee on commerce. science. and transportation declined to include an amendment to such requirements in the coast guard reauthorization bill it reported. s. 1004. instead. the chairman of the full committee. senator pressler. and the chairman of the subcommittee on oceans and fisheries. senator stevens. wrote to ask for my cooperation and assistance in crafting an offshore opa90 amendment that could be offered upon consideration of s. 1004 on the senate floor. seventeen senators. including four members of the environment and public works committee. also sent me a letter urging me to work with the committee on commerce. science. and transportation to achieve the same result. in response. i agreed to work with the leadership of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation in an effort to forge an amendment that would accommodate the request of my colleagues. all work was done in consultation with the ranking member of the committee on environment and public works. senator baucus. the product of that cooperative labor is the amendment before the senate at this time. also resulting from our negotiations with the committee on commerce. science. and transportation is an agreement that will ensure continued recognition of the jurisdiction of the committee on environment and public works as s. 1004 and h.r. 1361 move forward. it is especially important given the abbreviated process that i have agreed to follow with respect to the opa90 amendment. our agreement provides that. upon passage of s. 1004 and h.r. 1361 by the senate. the committee on environment and public works will conduct any negotiations or discussions with the house of representatives on any opa90 issues within the committees jurisdiction. including all issues addressed in the pending senate amendment. if these negotiations or discussions fail to resolve any differences that may exist between the two chambers on such issues. the committee on environment and public works will be the source of conferees on all opa90 issues under the committees jurisdiction. including all issues addressed in the pending senate amendment. in the spirit in which the pending amendment was developed. members of the com mittee on environment and public works engaged in any such negotiations or conference will consult with members of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. in conclusion. i simply would ask my good friend. the chairman of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation. if what i have just stated comports with his understanding of our agreement.
the maine senators understanding of section 13(b) is correct. this section does apply to the surface water treatment rule as well as other federal drinking water regulations. i very much recognize the problems that small disadvantaged towns are facing in complying with some of the expensive requirements of the act. and we hope that section 13(b) and other sections of s. 1316 will address these problems.
madam president. i am always very. very reluctant to oppose any amendment by the distinguished californian who is a member ofour environment and public works committee. a very able member of that committee and contributes a great deal. so it is with some trepidation that i rise to differ with her views on this particular amendment. it seems to me that this is  a necessary amendment. and. frankly. i do  think we should be adopting amendments that do  seem to have a necessity to them. . as has been pointed out. in the legislation we have submitted. s. 1316. if one looks at the report of the committee on page 136. it starts setting forth there what are the requirements that we have regarding ice. and indeed. on page 137. under (d)(1). "regulations issued under subparagraph (a) shall specify ification procedures for violations. other than the violations covered by subparagraph (c). and the procedures specify that a public water system shall provide written ice to each person served by the system by ice in the first bill prepared after the date of occurrence." in other words. if there is a violation of the law. then it is required that ice be given. i think that is adequate. madam president. as the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee. senator kempthorne. just pointed out. there is a system for  only this ification. but if we want a more broad ification. then go ahead and do it. the states can pass such a law. indeed. let me just demonstrate here. if i might. a twosided piece of paper which is. i suppose. something like 14 inches long. issued by the state of maryland. pursuant to maryland law. by the patuxent and potomac water filtration plants. it is just unintelligible. i think this is what everybody is going to receive. let me give an illustration. it says down here. "11. dichlorothane. 13. dichloropropane." that goes on to say that it deals with a number of micrograms per liter. it is  detected. it says. in patuxent and in potomac. again. "maximum monthly averages  detected." and it goes on to say that there is limit established up or down by epa on this. in other words. apparently. the maryland law is that there must be close to 80 substances or potential contaminants that have to be ified. anybody that receives this--99.9 percent of the people that receive it must say. "what is this." and dispose of it in the wastebasket. it seems to me that it is really an unnecessary expenditure. so. madam president. i reluctantly oppose the amendment by the senator from california on the basis that if some state wants it. go ahead and do it. that is their business. if they do  want to do it. then we have some protective provisions in the current law. as i have previously pointed out.
yes. the safe drinking water act defines a public water system as a system for the provision to the public of piped water for human consumption. if such system has at least 15 service connectidns or regularly serves at least 25 individuals. in describing a public water system. epas regulations and guidance use such terms as "serves" and "delivers." usually in the context of "customers." these terms are clearly contrary to a situation where the irrigation system does  either consent to having water withdrawn for human consumption. or k that such withdrawals are occurring with respect to the requisite number of connections or customers.
 reagan on april 5. 1988. demonstrates the significance of the program: the montreal protocol is a model of cooperation. it is a product of the recognition and international consensus that ozone depletion is a global problem. both in terms of its causes and effects. the protocol is the result of an extraordinary process of scientific study. negotiations among representatives of the business and environmental communities. and international diplomacy. it is a monumental achievement. the treaty.  ratified by 150 nations. represents a consensus on the dangers of ozone depletion and provides for the eventual ban of cfc production. we later agreed to amendments to strengthen the ban in 1990. as part of the clean air act. and again. in 1992. under the terms of the montreal protocol. throughout this effort there were those who called the ozone hole and the destruction of the ozone by cfcs a myth. however. several weeks ago. our actions were vindicated beyond question when the three scientists who first alerted us to the possibility that cfcs were destroying the ozone layer were awarded the el prize for chemistry. during the debate on the vahud appropriations bill. i sponsored an amendment. along with senator jeffords and senator bingaman. that would have given the administrator the discretion to spend more than the $12 million  available under the conference report for the montreal protocol fund. although the amendment was approved by the senate. it was  retained in conference. i must say i am disappointed. if our goal here is to encourage epa to be mindful of good science. risk assessment. and management of scarce resources. then i can think of a more necessary endeavor than their efforts to reverse the destruction of the stratospheric ozone layer.
i would be pleased to respond to the senators question. i am indeed aware of your successful efforts to lower the overall costs of this important project. it is  my intention to sacrifice these savings by delaying authorization. instead. this amendment will preserve the environment and public works committees authority to review and determine spending levels for the construction of federal buildings. with respect to committee consideration of a resolution authorizing the project. it is my intention to schedule a business meeting as expeditiously as possible. i am confident that we could consider a resolution well before the april 19. 1996. deadline established in the amendment.
. it was a pleasure to work with senator kempthorne and senator hutcmson on this amendment. and. while i oppose the esa listing moratorium. i believe that--working together to secure additional funding for listing activitieswe have improved the prospects for orderly. effective research and conservation efforts by the fish and wildlife service. it is my hope that we can continue to work together to enact responsible legislation to reauthorize the endangered species act later this year. i would like to thank senators hatfield and gorton and their appropriations committee staff for their assistance with this amendment. also. i very much appreciate the willingness of senator hatfield and of senator byrd to include this provision in the managers amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of this letter dated march 23. 1996. be printed in the record following this colloquy. i congratulate chairman lugar and ranking member leahy for their efforts in crafting a sound conservation title that will benefit the environment and the ecoy well into the next century.
. i rise in strong support and urge the adoption of h.r. 2024. the mercurycontaining and rechargeable battery management act. the bill is nearly identical to s. 619. legislation introduced by senator smith. reported by the environment committee and approved by the full senate by voice vote on september 21. h.r. 2024 is an industry initiative developed to respond to the environmental threats posed by used. spent batteries. the approach is twofold. first. the bill promotes the recycling of rechargeable batteries through uniform labeling requirements and streamlined regulations for battery collection programs. second. the bill limits mercury content in and phases out the use of mercury in certain batteries. the bill is straightforward and contains two titles. title i would facilitate the efficient recycling of nickelcadmium rechargeable batteries. small leadacid rechargeable batteries. and rechargeable batteries used in consumer products through: one. uniform battery labeling requirements. two. streamlined regulatory requirements for battery collection programs. and three. the elimination of barriers to funding voluntary industry collection programs. title i is intended to phase out the use of mercury in batteries. thus reducing the threat this material poses to our air and groundwater. h.r. 2024 and its senate companion s. 619 are prime examples of industrys concern for the environment. the legislation is an excellent example of a point that i have made many times: protection of the environment and a strong ecoy go hand in hand. by providing a coherent national system for labeling batteries and products. requiring the easy removability of batteries from consumer products. and streamlining federal regulations. the mercurycontaining and rechargeable battery management act will provide states. localities. consumers. and industry the opportunity to join together to achieve greater environmental protection without imposing burdens on the states or local taxpayers. in fact. the bill will generate substantial savings for federal. state. and local entities and commercial operations that ship batteries due to the lower cost associated with the bills streamlined requirements. h.r. 2024 is legislation supported by the portable rechargeable battery association and the national electrical manufacturers association. in addition. the administration has expressed its support for the bill. i am convinced that h.r. 2024 will result in greater protection of our* environment and i urge its adoption.
madam president. i take this moment to pay particular tribute to the senator from virginia for the work he did in connection with providing funding for the city of washington aqueduct. it supplies. obviously. all the residents of washington plus some residents of thern virginia. but for the attention and diligence of the senator from virginia in connection with this matter. we would  have dealt with it in the fashion we did. i believe. as a result of the efforts of senator warner. the problems of the washington water supply system will be solved in the  too distant future. i pay tribute to what the senator has done.
i thank the distinguished senator from california for her very kind remarks. we express our appreciation to her.  senator smrrh. but before doing so. i want to say that senator smirh has been deeply involved with this safe drinking water act from the beginning. he worked very closely with the authors of it and particularly was concerned about the small communities. there are two things he sought for these small communities. one is that they have safe drinking water and. two. that they have it at an affordable price. i pay tribute to the work senator smrrh did in reflecting the views of his constituents in new hampshire. i give him sincere praise for his assistance
. i thank the distinguished senator from ne-. braska. senator kerrey. for the very generous remarks he made. he was hip deep in this when we started some 4 years ago. and although he is  on the environment committee. he has followed it extremely closely and has been extremely helpful and constructive to us. so i thank him personally. in conclusion. i thank the staff: ann klee and buzz fawcett with senator kempthorne. joellen darcy. mike evans. and tom sliter with senator baucus. ann loomis with senator warner. mike smith with senator thomas. scott slesinger with senator lautenberg. gregg daimes with senator rewb. chris russell with senator smith. diane hill with senator kerrey. and. of course. from the majority staff of the environment and public works committee. steve shimberg. jimmie powell. who was the lead on this. who was absolutely pheenal. and stephanie daigle. all of then deserve a lot of praise and thanks.
. i join senator inhofe in urging the senate to pass s. 1873. the national environmental education act amendments of 1996. i commend senator inhofe for his leadership on this bill. mr. inhofe and other members of the senate environment and public works committee have crafted a reauthorization of the national environmental education act. of 1990. it is a bipartisan bill sponsored by 11 members of the environment and public works committee. including myself and senators inhofe. baucus.
. the sustainable fisheries act includes many other provisions aimed at restoring and sustaining some of our nations most valued resources. i look with amazement at the array of fishing and conservation organizations that have endorsed this vitally important legislation. theie groups range from industry to environmental to recreational. i commend the work done by senator stevens to obtain this wideranging level of support. and urge all of my colleagues to join me in voting for this bill. thank you.
. i rise in support of the conference report to s. 1004. the coast guard . authorization act. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. which has jurisdiction over oil pollution issues. i am pleased to report that s. 1004 contains a number of important improvements to the oil pollution act of 1990. or opa. these improvements represent several solid steps forward in our ongoing efforts to prevent oil spills from occurring in our nations waters and to better respond to the oil spills that do occur. i convened the environment and public works committee for a series of hearings to address oil pollution issues earlier this year in response to a number of major oil spills. the spill of greatest interest to me. as you might imagine. happened just off the coast of my home state of rhode island on january 19 of this year. it occurred when a tug boat had a fire in rough seas and eventually lost control of the barge it was towing. which was carrying millions of gallons of home heating oil. the sad outcome was that the barge. the th cape. ran aground and spilled some 800.000 gallons of oil into block island sound. the ecoic and environmental harm to my state from the spill was extensive. thousands of lobster carcasses washed up on our shores. hundreds of birds were left dead or severely injured. and many who rely upon the sea for their livelihood in the area were financially hurt. some seriously. the committee held a total of three hearings. the first of these was held in rhode island so we could hear and learn from the people most directly affected by the spill. in our hearings we learned that. overall. opa is working pretty well. the. clear consensus of all witnesses who testified during our hearings is that opa is a valuable piece of legislation that has helped to produce faster and more effective spill responses throughout the last 6 years. nevertheless. there is room for improvement in the act. on the prevention side. for example. opa can. and should. be strengthened so that we can avoid having to respond to an oil spill at all. the recent spills have only served to underscore the need for more effective prevention measures. we also learned that our oil spill response capabilities can. and should. be honed. as a result. on may 7. i. along with senators lieberman and lautenberg. introduced s. 1730. the oil spill prevention and response improvement act. senator pell also eventually became a cosponsor. as its name implies. the bill has two major purposes: first. to prevent oil spills from occurring. and second. to provide for a more effective response to the oil spills that do occur. on june 20. the committee on environment and public works voted 17 to 0 to report s. 1730. i am extremely gratified that the majority of the provisions and issues addressed .in s. 1730 as reported are contained in the conference report before us today. let me  explain what these provisions. are and the intent underlying them.
. in accordance with the rules of the senate. i ask that the rules of the committee on environment and public works. . adopted by the committee january 28. 1997. be printed in the record. the rules follow:
 of them all. teddy roosevelt. this is what he said 86 years ago. "of all the questions which can come before this nation. short of the actual preservation of its existence in a great war. there is e which compares in importance with the central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us." those are pretty good words for us to remember as we celebrate earth day in 1997words to be considered while thinking of the future and preserving the environment for our children and grandchildren and those who come after us.
. senator kempthorne and i have. been working diligently together to reauthorize the esa. we issued a discussion draft for reauthorization in late january 1997. and we have since been negotiating with the miity members of the committee on environment and public works and the administration. my strong preference is to avoid any amendments relating to the esa in this. or any other. appropriations bill. the proper context in which to discuss whether the esa needs to address emergency situations better. and how the esa should define reasonable and prudent measures. is our reauthorization process.  here. my other goal is to avoid a contentious debate on the esa when we are trying to pass an appropriations bill expeditiously. and when we are trying also to reauthorize the esa itself expeditiously. i believe that our amendment accomplishes both of those goals. in sum. our amendment will ensure that the requirements of the endangered species act will  impede actions to address emergency situations. it removes any uncertainty that the emergency procedures in the esa and its implementing regulations shall apply in those situations. and it further resolves several ambiguities in those procedures. it is a significant resolution that will  only expedite passage of the supplemental appropriations and rescissions act. but also represents a promising step in our ongoing efforts to reauthorize the esa itself. for these reasons. i encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. i thank my colleagues for their hard work in this issue. especially senator kempthorne. who worked tirelessly with me to bridge the differences between the original craig amendment and the reid amendment. the amendment on which we agree today is based on an amendment filed by senator
. i had a brief colloquy i was going to enter into with the distinguished senator from west virginia. it is as follows: senate resolution 98 includes two important conditions for u.s. agreements to any future treaty to limit greenhouse gases. quoting directly from the text of the resolutionthat is. senator byrds resolution: the united states should  be a signatory to any protocol to. or other agreement regarding. the u.n. framework convention on climate change of 1992. at negotiations in kyoto in december1997. or thereafter. which would-(a) mandate new commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the annex i parties. unless the protocol or other agreement also mandates new specific scheduled commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for developing country parties within the same compliance period. or (b) would result in serious harm to the ecoy of the united states. without losing my right to the floor. i wish to ask the primary sponsor of the resolution a couple of questions. i am curious as to whether the senator from west virginia intends for his resolution to speak to the scientific understanding of global climate change.
senator hagel has been active in all of this. and we have dealt iwith his folks. and wherever i refer to the byrd resolution. i really should have referred to the byrdhagel resolution and will attempt to make that change in the transcript. with regard to specific provisions contained in the resolution. i am interested in what the senators intend on page 4. lines 9 through 11 by the phrase "new specific scheduled commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for developing country parties." is it the senators intentions that the developing country parties. irrespective of the national incomes and greenhouse gas emission rates. be mandated to the very same commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for the annex 1 parties.
because greenhouse gas emissions from the developing world will. on a cumulative basis. exceed those of the developed world sometime during the first quarter of the next century. the senators position appears quite sound on both environmental and ecoic grounds. and i thank the senator very much.
. today the united states confronts a choice that must be made soon on how best to conserve marine life in the pacific ocean. negotiators have worked out a compromise that will allow the united states to choose the best option. this option entails joining our neighbors in implementing a binding. carefully crafted international agreement that includes strong mandates that will protect dolphins and other species. aher option involved going it alone. sacrificing what little leverage we have in an increasingly foreign fishery. keep in mind that the etp is completely outside the jurisdiction of the united states. we can simply go in and tell others how to fish. instead. our best chance of promoting conservation is through a multilateral. rather than a unilateral. forum. but other signatories to the panama declaration will  wait forever while the united states congress continues to debate this issue. the time to act is . if we had chosen to go it alone. dolphins would  necessarily have been saved. indeed. more dolphins may well be killed if the united states rejects the panama declaration. as fishermen will likely abandon the voluntary provisions of the la jolla agreement. what incentive would these fishermen have to conserve if the largest consumer of tuna maintains an embargo on their product and refuses to participate in international conservation efforts. because the panama declaration offers the best hope for marine conservation in the etp. s. 39 has been endorsed by greenpeace. national wildlife federation. center for marine conservation. environmental defense fund. and world wildlife fund. these groups recognize the merits of this multilateral approach. i again commend the tireless efforts of the authors of this legislation. and urge my colleagues to support s. 39.
that is correct. with respect to longterm secondary uses. the amendment has met with the approval of the department of the interior. as stated by secretary babbitt at a hearing on s. 1059 before the environment and public works committee on july 30. with respect to shortterm uses. the service has also agreed with my understanding.
. i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from new york for his very fine comments. coming from him they mean a lot. as we all k. he was the principal author of the bill that emerged from the conference in 1997. the socalled istea legislation. it is due. principally. to senator moynihan. that that bill came out as it did. all of us were there. the senator from montana and i and others were there during those negotiations. the senator from new york was  the chairman of that conference. the chairman was the representative from new jersey.  of the environment and public works committee at that time. the senator from new york. out of that came a bill that i think has been a model. i have always said it and i will say it again that the principal credit for doing that. achieving that. was what the senator from new york did. regarding the magnetic levitation. i agree with him. the senator from new york. based upon his urgings. i went over to bremen. germany. to see the magnetic levitation demonstration tracks. it is about a 10mile track that is in the form of a figure 8. we attained at that time speeds of over 300 miles an hour with a cruising speed of 240 miles an hour. it was so calm you could rest a glass of water on the table or you could write a letter with ease. as the senator from new york mentioned. there were considerable sums in the istea legislation. but those sums. as i recall. were  spent but were taken back by the appropriators over the years. so we have $30 million more from that in here. from that. we believe the department of transportation can arrive at the site. we ought to try one of these. where it will be. i dont k. it could well be in texas or florida. moving vast amounts of people back and forth in some fashion wherever it might be. i am sure it will  be in the state of rhode island. but i am for it. and i am  necessarily saying we have to develop new techogy. i think the germans have developed some outstanding techogy. i have  seen the one in japan. i think we ought to get on with it and see how it works in this country and see  only if the construction costs can be amortized but the operating costs. likewise. again. i thank the splendid senator from new york for his comments and appreciate the support he has given this legislation from the word go.
s of one of the oilproducing countries of the world had to say. i would like to also point out a statement by the chairman of the ford motor co. finance committee. e other than william clay ford. jr. this is what he had to say on october 11. just 10 days ago. as quoted in the washington post: ford motor executive william clay ford. jr.. called global warming a genuine threat to the environment and said automakers who oppose a proposed treaty to address the problem risk being "marginalized" in the court of public opinion. this is what someone. whose family owns 40 percent of the voting stock of ford motor co.. had to say. the remarks by ford. a leading contender to become chairman of the  2 automaker. distances himself from several detroit executives who. in recent months. have criticized the proposed global warming treaty saying the phee might  exist or its causes are uncertain. so thats what the leader of the second largest automobile manufacturing company in our country had to say. all i am saying to my colleagues. and substantiating what the senator from massachusetts said. is lets examine this thing carefully. lets look at what the scientists have to say. we can say we dont agree with them. i dont k how many el laureates there are in that group--are there 10 el laureates in that most recent group. it is something like thatplus a total of 2.500 scientists. i believe this thing is serious. and i think we ought to approach it with that attitude and  say. " were  going to have anything to do with it because if we have anything to do with it and try and solve the problem it will be very expensive." well. that is way to approach things. i commend the senator from massachusetts for the remarks he made. and i hope that all our colleagues were listening. this thing is serious. lets take it seriously. we may  agree. we may have different scientific evidence. but lets  just trash it because it is going to be expensive to comply with.
. this is a very. very contentious issue: fortunately. in our environment and public works committee we were able to report out this basic legislation 18 to 0. then we have to do this socalled stopgap legislation. because we werent able to consider the big bill due to a variety of factors. this bill  is a result of bipartisan cooperation. as we mentioned. senator baucus has been deeply involved in this. and of course. senator warner. senator bond. myself. and others. i join in the salute to the staff. they have been really terrific. i would like particulaly to offer the names of those who worked so hard: jimmie powell. tom sliter. kathy ruffalo. dan corbett. ann loomis. peter rogoff. with senator byrd. and tracy henke with senator bond. every single one of those staffers was absolutely terrific.
. on ember 7. 1997. the committee on environment and public works filed a report (s. rept. 105142) to accompany s. 1287. a bill to assist in the conservation of asian elephants by supporting and providing financial resources for the conservation programs of nations within the range of asian elephants and projects of persons with demonstrated expertise in the conservation of asian elephants. the bill is kn as the asian elephant conservation act of 1997. the bill was placed on the senate calendar. an identical companion bill. h.r. 1787. subsequently was passed by the senate on ember 8. 1997. under the senate rules. a cost estimate prepared by the congressional budget office must be submitted with the filed report. because the cost estimate was  available when the report was filed i ask that the letter from the director of the congressional budget office. received on ember 21. 1997. be printed in the record. the letter follows:
i thank the distinguished senator from wyoming very much for his kind comments on the work we have done. the senator from wyoming is a very valuable member of the environment and public works committee. he has worked with us. as he pointed out. he had one of the major bills that went into the final amalgamation we had herethe star bill. and he had deep concerns. as he has outlined here. in certain particular areas. i am glad that we were able to take care of those areas. indeed. when we meet tomorrow. i believe we will be. as i pointed out to the senate a little earlier. able to do even better in some of those particular areas he is concerned with. so our committee will be meeting tomorrow at 9:30. and i look forward to working with the senator from wyoming as we proceed with an amendment incorporating some of the provisions that have come about as a result of the additional money that has come forward just in the last--well. just agreed to earlier this aftern. so. again. i thank the senator. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
madam president. i rise in support of the amendment which has been offered by my colleague who is the chairman of the clean air subcommittee of the environment committee. he has identified some important concerns about the implementation of the recently revised socalled national ambient air quality standards. .this is a very complicated area. the senator from oklahoma has invested a good deal of time and energy studying this and educating our committee about it. his subcommittee. as he mentioned. held seven hearings on the subject here in washington and aher in oklahoma. he and his staff led the sometimes difficult negotiations on this amendment to. as he ed. a successful conclusion. i want to applaud the senator from oklahoma for his efforts both on this amendment and on the larger issue of the naaqs rule. he has invested a great deal of energy and time in studying this complicated matter and educating the environment and public works committee about it. his subcommittee held seven hearings on the issue here in washington. and aher in oklahoma. he and his staff led the sometimes difficult negotiations on this amendment to a successful conclusion. his efforts and patience have served us all well because the amendment before us will improve the implementation of the naaqs. this amendment seeks to ensure that commitments made last year about how the standards would be implemented are upheld. the environmental protection agency said it would cover 100 percent of the costs associated with installing and operating the new monitors needed to measure fine particulate matter. having made the promise. the federal government must ensure that it is kept. this amendment would do that. the amendment would also require three years of data collection before planning starts for additional pollution controls. the epa has decided that it needs three years of data to ensure that chronic sources of particulate matter are accurately identified. complete data will enable states to develop appropriate control strategies. reducing pm 2.5 is important to the public health but we must be sure that new controls are used where they are needed. without sufficient monitoring data. we will  be certain the right sources are targeted for controls. and we may  achieve the improved air quality or the health benefits that we are seeking. along the same lines. we need to be sure we can chemically distinguish one type of particulate from aher. that is the only way state air officials will k if they need to reduce pollution from wood stoves or power plants. this amendment requires a field study of the monitors to ensure that they are serving this purpose effectively. the epa promised the states that they would have both the resources and the information necessary to implement the naaqs rule. through this amendment. the senator from oklahoma is attempting to enforce those commitments. all of the goals of this amendment are worthy and reasonable and i urge everyone to support it. essentially what the amendment does is the following: there have to be monitors set up to measure particulate matter and ozone levels and other matter. the question is. who is going to pay for these monitors. is it going to be the federal government. the administrator indicated it would be the federal government. but there seems to be some backing off from that. the amendment of the senator from oklahoma says that the environmental protection agency would cover 100 percent of the costs of installation. you have to install these things and operate them. you have to go out and check these new monitors to measure the fine particulate matter. that is the first thing the senator has accomplished in this amendment. that is a very welcome provision because the -state budgets are having trouble keeping up with the requirements of the clean air act. the other part of his amendment would codify the requirement under the national ambient air quality standards. that calls for 3 years of data collection before there can be a designation of attainment for this particular part of socalled particulate matter. so. the epa has decided that 3 years of data are necessary to ensure that chronic sources of particulate matter are accurately identified. as i understand the amendment of the senator. it requires 3 years. am i correct.
. i thank the distinguished senator from nevada for his kind comments. he has been a very valuable member of the environment and public works committee. i guess. ever since he came here to the senate. we have worked closely together on a whole series of matters. he has particularly been involved with the endangered species act. revisions of which i hope- we can bring to a conclusion .pretty soon. so i thank the senator for all his very constructive work in our committee and on this legislation likewise.
. i want to salute the senators who worked so hard on this: senator wyden and senator graham. we are very proud that they are members of the environment committee. they are very valuable members of that committee. and senator smith worked very hard. and is likewise. so we are ready to go to a vote.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on agriculture. nutrition. and forestry be allowed to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 9 a.m. in sr328a. the purpose of this meeting will be to hold a hearing examining the kyoto treaty on climate change and its effect on the agricultural ecoy.
i will take 30 seconds. and the senator from idaho will take 30 seconds. more than half of all the endangered species in the united states are in private lands. in the endangered species reauthorization act. we put in moneys. we provide for assistance to private landowners. most of them small landowners. we do that. the chairman of the budget committee provided that if any blm lands are soldif they are sold. those moneys. instead of going into the general treasury. will be used for the endangered species act to help landowners. mostly small landowners.
. i express my sincere gratitude to the manager of the bill. senator stevens. and to the chair of the subcommittee on interior. senator gorton. yesterday. i raised with them an issue of concern regarding amendments to the coastal barrier resources system. a program under the jurisdiction of the committee on environment and public works. that the conferees were considering. these amendment would have adjusted the boundaries of several units currently in the system in florida. and they are quite controversial. senator stevens and senator gorton were both very gracious and accommodating to my concerns. they chose  to include the amendments. and instead included language in the report stating that the managers will work with the committees of jurisdiction to explore the possibility of a legislative remedy in the context of future appropriations bill or other legislative vehicle. i very must appreciate this collaborative approach. again. i express my sincere thanks to my esteemed colleagues. senators stevens and gorton.
. page 67 of the committee report accompanying the departments of veterans affairs and housing and urban development. and independent agencies appropriations bill of 1999 includes $8 million for the national rural water association. in addition to the appropriation to the national rural water association. the committee es that "states are authorized to set aside 2 percent of the funds provided under their drinking water state revolving fund allotment." i ask my friend from missouri if he and other members -of the appropriations committee are implying that the 2 percent set aside authorized in section 1452(g)(2) of the safe drinking water act amendments of 1996 is to be used for grants made to the national rural water association and various regional community action organizations.
. i believe this is an important bill that will go a long way in helping protect some of the worlds most ecologically sensitive and vital areas. the tropical forest conservation act promotes debt reduction. investment reforms. community based conservation and sustainable use of the environment. in addition. it stretches limited federal dollars making an effective use of international environmental assistance. i urge my colleagues here in the senate to support s. 1758.
yes. it is my opinion that providing drinking water state revolving loan fund money to the community of colwich to create a public water system will further the health objectives of the safe drinking water act amendments of 1996. therefore. the state of kansas has the authority to allocate dwsrf money to the community of colwich.
i agree with the senior senator from vermont that although the epa mercury report does the best job so far in quantifying mercury emissions. many believe that the report understates the actual amount of mercury being released to the environment. along with senator leahy. i voiced my concern when the release of the epa mercury report was delayed. it is my understanding the epa is taking a number of longoverdue steps to address mercury emissions. toward the end of obtaining better data on mercury emissions from coalfired power plants. we should begin collecting information from these facilities on the mercury that they emit. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. i intend to hold hearings in september on the issues raised by the epa mercury report and senator leahys amendment in order to foster a broader public discussion from all concerned parties about the information and findings that are contained in the epa mercury report.
. for the past year. the majority leader. senator bob smith. and i have been working with our colleagues on the environment and public works committee and the administration to draft legislation to address some of the requirements of the resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") that currently impede the cleanup of literally thousands of contaminated sites across the nation. this socalled "rcra rifleshot" would have been an important piece of legislation. it would have demonstrated once again that we can improve our environmental laws. without jeopardizing human health or the environment. and reduce unnecessary costs. just last year. the government accounting office reported that eliminating those impediments to cleanup could save up to $2.1 billion per year and. at the same time. significantly expedite environmentally responsible cleanups. it was our hope to craft a bipartisan bill that could be enacted this year. our goal was a shared oneto develop legislation to eliminate overly restrictive treatment standards for mediation waste. to streamline permitting requirements. and preserve existing state cleanup programs. all while still ensuring that human health and the environment are protected. under senator lotts leadership. we worked hard to achieve that goal and i believe that we made significant progress in resolving our differences. unfortunately. we were  able to reach a final agreement and we have essentially run out of time. i remain committed. however. to the goal of improving the remediation waste program. i continue to believe that this is an important issue and that with appropriate legislation we can achieve a significant environment benefit--cleaning up thousands of contaminate sites and saving billions of dollars. that is clearly a worthwhile goal. therefore. i intend to make rcra reform a priority for the environment and public works committee in the next congress. building on the progress that we have made this year. and with senator lotts continued leadership. it is my hope that we will move legislation through the senate early in the next congress.
madam president. senator hollings. on july 31. 1997 introduced a bill that makes a boundary change to unit m09. edisto island. which was referred to the committee on environment and public works. it is my understanding that the amendment he is  offering is identical to your bill. is that correct.
. i am pleased to have an opportunity to talk about s. 1677. the wetlands and wildlife enhancement act of 1998. this bill will reauthorize the th american wetlands conservation act (nawca)a law that has played a central role in the conservation of wetlands habitat across the continent. i am joined by 58 of my colleagues from 42 states in sponsoring s. 1677. there are 35 republican cosponsors and 23 democrat cosponsors. this tremendous showing of bipartisan support is a tribute to one of the great success stories in wildlife conservation. nawca has helped to bring about the recovery of more than 30 species of ducks. geese. and other waterfowl and migratory birds from their lowest population numbers just 12 years ago to some of their highest population numbers this year. why was nawca originally enacted. in the early 1980s. we were alarmed to discover that populations of duck and other waterfowl had plummeted precipitously. the numbers were stark: in only ten years. breeding populations of ducks fell an average of 31 percent. with some species declining by as much as 61 percent. this decline was due to several factors. including loss of habitat and an extended drought in many parts of the u.s. in 1986. the u.s. and canada worked cooperatively to develop the th american waterfowl management plan. mexico joined the plan in 1994. so that the entire continent  participates in this effort. the plan established ambitious goals and inative strategies for conserving waterfowl habitat. under the leadership of senator george mitchell. congress approved nawca in 1989. primarily as a vehicle to implement the plan. the law provides a permanent funding source for wetlands conservation projects. many of which fall under the auspices of the plan. these sources includefederal appropriations. interest generated from shortterm investments on the pitmanrobertson fund. money from the wallopbreaux fund. and fines collected under the migratory bird treaty act. all told. nawca received $43 million this past year. of which $11.7 million was appropriated. since nawcas inception. 575 projects involving more than 800 partners have received $240 million in federal funds under nawca. matched by more than $360 million in federal funds. these projects have covered about 3.8 million acres throughout the continent. these numbers are impressive. but in the scheme of things. nawca is a relatively modest law. even so. it enjoys broad support. this is because. quite simply. nawca works. in fact. it works so well that it should serve as a model for other environmental laws. i would like to outline what i believe are the four components of its successand thus. it popularity. 1. nawca focuses on habitat conservation as the key to saving species. ducks and other waterfowl are extraordinarily dependent on climate. they need wet weather to thrive. during years of drought. waterfowl populations dwindle. if their habitat vanishes as well. waterfowl populations do  stand a chance of rebounding when the rains return. the beauty of nawca is that it seeks to protect the habitat itself. whether the waterfowl are there or . that way. when the rains come and the waterfowl. return. the habitat is waiting for them. thus. habitat conservation is the means to achieve the end of waterfowl protection. if waterfowlor any other creatures threatened with population decline or extinction--are going to survive. they must have available habitat capable of sustaining them. in focusing on wetlands habitat. nawca reaches far beyond waterfowl species. also sharing the same habitat are migratory birds. raptors. songbirds. shorebirds. and even black bears. otters. and other mammals. among these species. the habitat is the common currencyprotect the habitat and you protect all of them. professor e.o. wilson has said. when a natural ecosystem. say a forest remnant or a freshwater stream. is protected to save a particular species. an umbrella is thrown over hundreds or thousands of other species ... [and.] the great paly of lesser kn. often unkn. and frequently invisible organisms are what sustain natural environments. this is a basic principle of biology. however. nawca has transformed this principle into design. let me read from the 1989 senate committee report on the original nawca: one of the purposes of this legislation. is to broaden the focus of (the th american waterfowl management] plan with respect to conservation of wetland ecosystems and the other migratory birds and other fish and wildlife dependent thereon. this purpose was further reinforced in 1994. when the plan was amended to explicitly consider the needs of migratory birds when developing projects. 2. nawca makes use of coordinated. comprehensive. continentwide planning to achieve its wetlands conservation goals. it is important to protect habitat. but the key is king which land to protect. this is where the th american waterfowl management plan comes in. without the plan. nawca would be just aher grants program. giving money to worthy projects for a worthy cause. but without any sense of the whole picture. the plan identifies broad goals and strategies for recovering waterfowl populations across th america. ten joint ventures across all four flyways have been formed to refine the goals and strategies for their specific regions. the joint ventures also coordinate projects to conserve wetlands. partnerships among federal. state. conservation groups. and landownersbig or smallform to develop projects and submit proposals for federal matching money under nawca. the proposals are then reviewed by the th american wetlands conservation council. which makes recommendations to the migratory bird conservation commission. which then approves the funding. the council consists of nine members. as follows: the director of the service. the secretary of the board for the national fish and wildlife foundation. four directors of state and wildlife agencies. one from each of the four flyways. and three representatives of charitable and profit organizations actively participating in wetlands conservation projects. the state agency directors and the representatives of charitable and profit organizations are appointed by the secretary for threeyear terms. thus. the plan and act work in concert with one aher. beginning with -broad planning guidelines for the entire continent. and ending with individual projects for protecting and managing specific acres in our very communities. a perfect example of this holistic approach is an initiative. in the mississippi alluvial valley. which stretches from the mouth of the mississippi river up into tennessee. this is where the cutting edge of conservation planning is taking place. through modern satellite imagery and gis techogy. habitat types can be identified and mapped. this ecological mapping is then compared with land ownership. giving federal. state. and local governments. as well as private owners. an idea of the most important lands to conserve. the result. areas of habitat fragmentation can be pinpointed. and reforestation and wetlands restoration can be targeted to meet the needs of sensitive and declining species. 3. nawca relies on publicprivate partnerships to achieve its wetlands conservation goals. the partners are a big reason for nawcas success. instead of the heavy hand of government regulation. nawcas wetlands conservation goals are achieved by voluntary cooperative partnerships involving very diverse people and organizationsbusinesses. profit environmental groups. hunters. farmers. state. tribal. and local governments. and of course the federal government. under the auspices of nawca. people and groups with widely divergent. often opposing points of view have found common ground in wetlands. the kind of cooperation that nawca has engendered is heartening indeed. through this work to achieve the goals of the plan. a broad array of people have had the opportunity to develop a deep and abiding appreciation of wetlands and the need to protect them. e has contributed to the program more than ducks unlimited. - has anyone been more vital to its success. that organization alone has contributed in total about $20 million to the projects in the u.s.. and about aher $60 million to projects in canada and mexico. the nature conservancy has also been a tremendous supporter of the program. contributing $17 million to projects in the u.s. and aher $4 million to projects in canada. however. these groups do more than raise money. they educate landowners. coordinate partnerships. and give the program the exposure it deserves. because du plays such an important role. we are amending s. 1677 to place them on the council for one additional term of 3 years. while at the same time requiring the service to develop a policy. subject to ice and comment rulemaking procedures. to develop a fair and formal process for making future appointments to the council. i expect the service to balance the policy between groups such as du and tnc. whose support is invaluable. and between other groups that might be smaller but who bring new ideas and new forms of participation to the program. nawca has also reached out to private landowners across the continentsmall. family owned farms. large developers. and private individuals. in my own state of rhode island. it is private individuals who have made the difference for some of the best remaining waterfowl habitat in the state. in conjunction with the nature conservancy and state and federal government agencies. we have a phased restoration in progress to rectify years of damage as a result of dredge spoil deposited along a tidal channel. poorly planned road construction. and a recent oil spill. in phase i of the south shore habitat protection project. mr. oliver hazard donated an 80 acre tract of land to the nature conservancy valued at $900.000. in phase ii. william viall donated 110 acres valued at $640.000 to the town of th kingston. on the opposite side of the continent. it was a partnership among two state agencies. the metropolitan services district of portland. several national and local conservation groups. and a local dairy farmer. e.f. steinborn. who collaborated to restore 500 acress within the tualatin river floodplain near portland. oregon. the project converted a large dairy farm to seasonal and permanent wetlands providing habitat for thousands of waterfowl. shorebirds. and songbirds. complementing wetlands on the adjacent refuge. the projectlocated on the outskirts of portlandis a wonderful example of how we can reclaim lands for conservation before they get swallowed up by urban expansion. aher example is an area in swan lake basin. located in a wildlife refuge in the san joaquin valley of california. swan lake basin was a dry channeled area. but with nawca funds and four months of restoration work it has been transformed into a lake with freeflowing drainage. the area  provides nesting and resting groups for hundreds of white pelicans. as well as doublecrested comorants. grebes. 8.000 canvasback ducks. 6.000 thern shovelers. and 40.000 gadwalls. the benefits of these partnerships go far beyond specific projects. however. they facilitate the flow of ideas and inations across borders. only in the last decade. for example. has canada begun to use conservation easements and servitudes to protect land from development.. legislation within the provinces has been enacted to broaden the use of this valuable tool for conservation. it is without doubt that the partnerships under nawca have stimulated this awareness and can take part of the credit for these new developments in canada. here is a case where the united states. canada and mexico have come together to identify a common need. consider just one nawca site in quill lake. canada. banding data reveal that waterfowl using that site have visited other nawca sites. represented by the blue circles. all across the continent. imagine the synergies of all nawca projects helping each other. and. by enacting nawca. the united states has lead the way in providing a reliable funding structure to address it. we have been able to turn good international intentions into superlative international action. 4. nawca leverages federal dollars with private funds for wetlands conservation. we all k how tight the federal budget is. inative funding mechanisms are the best hope for ensuring the viability of important environmental programs. the th american wetlands conservation fund. which was established by nawca. provides grant money with a matching requirement to leverage each federal dollar. in fact. the ratio of nawca funds to contributions from other partners usually approaches 1:2.  let me inject a word of caution. we can afford complacency. nawca has been a success. but part of the credit for the recovery of waterfowl species has to go to the heavy rains weve had in the past few years. this year is drier than it has been in the past. already. duck counts are leveling off. in drier conditions. the need to conserve duck habitat is ever more urgent. and this urgent need to conserve wetlands is in direct competition with severe development pressures on wetlands. by the year 2020. more than half of the u.s. population will live in coastal plains. laws like nawca will become ever more important in protecting these fragile areas. the proper tribute to the success of nawca is to let it inspire us to do more. let us reauthorize this fine bill. let us ensure it is adequately funded. let us support the other important laws that protect wetlands--such as swampbuster and section 404 of the clean water act. and most of all. let us build on the strengths of nawca in all our environmental protection endeavors. again. those strengths are: 1. focus on conserving habitat. 2. use a comprehensive plan--continentwide. if possible. 3. rely on publicprivate partnerships--both national and international. 4. leverage federal dollars with private funds. i exhort my colleagues to support s. 1677. and reauthorize the very worthy th american wetlands conservation act. i thank the chair.
. i would like to commend my colleague from louisiana. senator landrieu. for her herculean efforts in developing this legislation. she has worked tirelessly with other senators. the house. and numerous stakeholders. including industry groups and environmental groups alike. the bill she introduces today reflects her tremendous dedication to this issue. i also applaud senator landrieus efforts to shape this legislation into a significant conservation initiative. her legislation includes two titles devoted to environmental protectiontitle 11 for funding the land and water conservation fund (lwcf). and title iii for funding game species protection by the states. kn as teaming with wildlife. these worthwhile programs have  received the attention or funding they deserve on their own. and the inclusion in this legislation gives them an opportunity to fulfill their potential. in particular. the lwcf was created in 1964 with the principle that revenues from- a resource extraction activityoffshore oil drillingshould be reinvested in the acquisition and protection of other natural resources with lasting value. senator landrieus bill remains true to this principle. s. 2566 is a major piece of legislation. with much promise. it deserves careful consideration. i intend to give the bill this consideration during recess. i intend to consult with different groups here. and with constituents in my home state of rhode island. some groups have raised concerns that this bill will encourage offshore drilling. despite the senators strong statement that this bill is "drillingneutral." i would like to reach my own conclusion on this score. different interest groups have made suggestions to improve the provisions in all three titles. and i would like to explore those as well during recess. senator landrieu has expressed a genuine openness to consider new ideas. anda genuine willingness to incorporate good ideas into her legislation. i look forward to working with my colleague from louisiana during the coming months on this initiative. and again. i wholeheartedly congratulate her on how far she has come already.e
. we are here today because we believe that climate change presents a serious threat. we believe it makes sense to get started . and. as many leading american companies do. we believe that there are sensible. fair and voluntary methods to get on the right track. we encourage our colleagues to use the time between  and next january to review this legislation carefully. we are open to suggestions. most importantly. we are looking for others to join us in this effort.
. in accordance with the rules of the senate. i ask that the rules of the committee on environment and public works. . adopted by the committee january 28. 1997. be printed in the record. the rules follow:
 of them all. teddy roosevelt. this is what he said 86 years ago. "of all the questions which can come before this nation. short of the actual preservation of its existence in a great war. there is e which compares in importance with the central task of leaving this land even a better land for our descendants than it is for us." those are pretty good words for us to remember as we celebrate earth day in 1997words to be considered while thinking of the future and preserving the environment for our children and grandchildren and those who come after us.
. senator kempthorne and i have. been working diligently together to reauthorize the esa. we issued a discussion draft for reauthorization in late january 1997. and we have since been negotiating with the miity members of the committee on environment and public works and the administration. my strong preference is to avoid any amendments relating to the esa in this. or any other. appropriations bill. the proper context in which to discuss whether the esa needs to address emergency situations better. and how the esa should define reasonable and prudent measures. is our reauthorization process.  here. my other goal is to avoid a contentious debate on the esa when we are trying to pass an appropriations bill expeditiously. and when we are trying also to reauthorize the esa itself expeditiously. i believe that our amendment accomplishes both of those goals. in sum. our amendment will ensure that the requirements of the endangered species act will  impede actions to address emergency situations. it removes any uncertainty that the emergency procedures in the esa and its implementing regulations shall apply in those situations. and it further resolves several ambiguities in those procedures. it is a significant resolution that will  only expedite passage of the supplemental appropriations and rescissions act. but also represents a promising step in our ongoing efforts to reauthorize the esa itself. for these reasons. i encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. i thank my colleagues for their hard work in this issue. especially senator kempthorne. who worked tirelessly with me to bridge the differences between the original craig amendment and the reid amendment. the amendment on which we agree today is based on an amendment filed by senator
. i had a brief colloquy i was going to enter into with the distinguished senator from west virginia. it is as follows: senate resolution 98 includes two important conditions for u.s. agreements to any future treaty to limit greenhouse gases. quoting directly from the text of the resolutionthat is. senator byrds resolution: the united states should  be a signatory to any protocol to. or other agreement regarding. the u.n. framework convention on climate change of 1992. at negotiations in kyoto in december1997. or thereafter. which would-(a) mandate new commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the annex i parties. unless the protocol or other agreement also mandates new specific scheduled commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for developing country parties within the same compliance period. or (b) would result in serious harm to the ecoy of the united states. without losing my right to the floor. i wish to ask the primary sponsor of the resolution a couple of questions. i am curious as to whether the senator from west virginia intends for his resolution to speak to the scientific understanding of global climate change.
senator hagel has been active in all of this. and we have dealt iwith his folks. and wherever i refer to the byrd resolution. i really should have referred to the byrdhagel resolution and will attempt to make that change in the transcript. with regard to specific provisions contained in the resolution. i am interested in what the senators intend on page 4. lines 9 through 11 by the phrase "new specific scheduled commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for developing country parties." is it the senators intentions that the developing country parties. irrespective of the national incomes and greenhouse gas emission rates. be mandated to the very same commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions for the annex 1 parties.
because greenhouse gas emissions from the developing world will. on a cumulative basis. exceed those of the developed world sometime during the first quarter of the next century. the senators position appears quite sound on both environmental and ecoic grounds. and i thank the senator very much.
. today the united states confronts a choice that must be made soon on how best to conserve marine life in the pacific ocean. negotiators have worked out a compromise that will allow the united states to choose the best option. this option entails joining our neighbors in implementing a binding. carefully crafted international agreement that includes strong mandates that will protect dolphins and other species. aher option involved going it alone. sacrificing what little leverage we have in an increasingly foreign fishery. keep in mind that the etp is completely outside the jurisdiction of the united states. we can simply go in and tell others how to fish. instead. our best chance of promoting conservation is through a multilateral. rather than a unilateral. forum. but other signatories to the panama declaration will  wait forever while the united states congress continues to debate this issue. the time to act is . if we had chosen to go it alone. dolphins would  necessarily have been saved. indeed. more dolphins may well be killed if the united states rejects the panama declaration. as fishermen will likely abandon the voluntary provisions of the la jolla agreement. what incentive would these fishermen have to conserve if the largest consumer of tuna maintains an embargo on their product and refuses to participate in international conservation efforts. because the panama declaration offers the best hope for marine conservation in the etp. s. 39 has been endorsed by greenpeace. national wildlife federation. center for marine conservation. environmental defense fund. and world wildlife fund. these groups recognize the merits of this multilateral approach. i again commend the tireless efforts of the authors of this legislation. and urge my colleagues to support s. 39.
that is correct. with respect to longterm secondary uses. the amendment has met with the approval of the department of the interior. as stated by secretary babbitt at a hearing on s. 1059 before the environment and public works committee on july 30. with respect to shortterm uses. the service has also agreed with my understanding.
. i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from new york for his very fine comments. coming from him they mean a lot. as we all k. he was the principal author of the bill that emerged from the conference in 1997. the socalled istea legislation. it is due. principally. to senator moynihan. that that bill came out as it did. all of us were there. the senator from montana and i and others were there during those negotiations. the senator from new york was  the chairman of that conference. the chairman was the representative from new jersey.  of the environment and public works committee at that time. the senator from new york. out of that came a bill that i think has been a model. i have always said it and i will say it again that the principal credit for doing that. achieving that. was what the senator from new york did. regarding the magnetic levitation. i agree with him. the senator from new york. based upon his urgings. i went over to bremen. germany. to see the magnetic levitation demonstration tracks. it is about a 10mile track that is in the form of a figure 8. we attained at that time speeds of over 300 miles an hour with a cruising speed of 240 miles an hour. it was so calm you could rest a glass of water on the table or you could write a letter with ease. as the senator from new york mentioned. there were considerable sums in the istea legislation. but those sums. as i recall. were  spent but were taken back by the appropriators over the years. so we have $30 million more from that in here. from that. we believe the department of transportation can arrive at the site. we ought to try one of these. where it will be. i dont k. it could well be in texas or florida. moving vast amounts of people back and forth in some fashion wherever it might be. i am sure it will  be in the state of rhode island. but i am for it. and i am  necessarily saying we have to develop new techogy. i think the germans have developed some outstanding techogy. i have  seen the one in japan. i think we ought to get on with it and see how it works in this country and see  only if the construction costs can be amortized but the operating costs. likewise. again. i thank the splendid senator from new york for his comments and appreciate the support he has given this legislation from the word go.
s of one of the oilproducing countries of the world had to say. i would like to also point out a statement by the chairman of the ford motor co. finance committee. e other than william clay ford. jr. this is what he had to say on october 11. just 10 days ago. as quoted in the washington post: ford motor executive william clay ford. jr.. called global warming a genuine threat to the environment and said automakers who oppose a proposed treaty to address the problem risk being "marginalized" in the court of public opinion. this is what someone. whose family owns 40 percent of the voting stock of ford motor co.. had to say. the remarks by ford. a leading contender to become chairman of the  2 automaker. distances himself from several detroit executives who. in recent months. have criticized the proposed global warming treaty saying the phee might  exist or its causes are uncertain. so thats what the leader of the second largest automobile manufacturing company in our country had to say. all i am saying to my colleagues. and substantiating what the senator from massachusetts said. is lets examine this thing carefully. lets look at what the scientists have to say. we can say we dont agree with them. i dont k how many el laureates there are in that group--are there 10 el laureates in that most recent group. it is something like thatplus a total of 2.500 scientists. i believe this thing is serious. and i think we ought to approach it with that attitude and  say. " were  going to have anything to do with it because if we have anything to do with it and try and solve the problem it will be very expensive." well. that is way to approach things. i commend the senator from massachusetts for the remarks he made. and i hope that all our colleagues were listening. this thing is serious. lets take it seriously. we may  agree. we may have different scientific evidence. but lets  just trash it because it is going to be expensive to comply with.
. this is a very. very contentious issue: fortunately. in our environment and public works committee we were able to report out this basic legislation 18 to 0. then we have to do this socalled stopgap legislation. because we werent able to consider the big bill due to a variety of factors. this bill  is a result of bipartisan cooperation. as we mentioned. senator baucus has been deeply involved in this. and of course. senator warner. senator bond. myself. and others. i join in the salute to the staff. they have been really terrific. i would like particulaly to offer the names of those who worked so hard: jimmie powell. tom sliter. kathy ruffalo. dan corbett. ann loomis. peter rogoff. with senator byrd. and tracy henke with senator bond. every single one of those staffers was absolutely terrific.
. on ember 7. 1997. the committee on environment and public works filed a report (s. rept. 105142) to accompany s. 1287. a bill to assist in the conservation of asian elephants by supporting and providing financial resources for the conservation programs of nations within the range of asian elephants and projects of persons with demonstrated expertise in the conservation of asian elephants. the bill is kn as the asian elephant conservation act of 1997. the bill was placed on the senate calendar. an identical companion bill. h.r. 1787. subsequently was passed by the senate on ember 8. 1997. under the senate rules. a cost estimate prepared by the congressional budget office must be submitted with the filed report. because the cost estimate was  available when the report was filed i ask that the letter from the director of the congressional budget office. received on ember 21. 1997. be printed in the record. the letter follows:
i thank the distinguished senator from wyoming very much for his kind comments on the work we have done. the senator from wyoming is a very valuable member of the environment and public works committee. he has worked with us. as he pointed out. he had one of the major bills that went into the final amalgamation we had herethe star bill. and he had deep concerns. as he has outlined here. in certain particular areas. i am glad that we were able to take care of those areas. indeed. when we meet tomorrow. i believe we will be. as i pointed out to the senate a little earlier. able to do even better in some of those particular areas he is concerned with. so our committee will be meeting tomorrow at 9:30. and i look forward to working with the senator from wyoming as we proceed with an amendment incorporating some of the provisions that have come about as a result of the additional money that has come forward just in the last--well. just agreed to earlier this aftern. so. again. i thank the senator. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
madam president. i rise in support of the amendment which has been offered by my colleague who is the chairman of the clean air subcommittee of the environment committee. he has identified some important concerns about the implementation of the recently revised socalled national ambient air quality standards. .this is a very complicated area. the senator from oklahoma has invested a good deal of time and energy studying this and educating our committee about it. his subcommittee. as he mentioned. held seven hearings on the subject here in washington and aher in oklahoma. he and his staff led the sometimes difficult negotiations on this amendment to. as he ed. a successful conclusion. i want to applaud the senator from oklahoma for his efforts both on this amendment and on the larger issue of the naaqs rule. he has invested a great deal of energy and time in studying this complicated matter and educating the environment and public works committee about it. his subcommittee held seven hearings on the issue here in washington. and aher in oklahoma. he and his staff led the sometimes difficult negotiations on this amendment to a successful conclusion. his efforts and patience have served us all well because the amendment before us will improve the implementation of the naaqs. this amendment seeks to ensure that commitments made last year about how the standards would be implemented are upheld. the environmental protection agency said it would cover 100 percent of the costs associated with installing and operating the new monitors needed to measure fine particulate matter. having made the promise. the federal government must ensure that it is kept. this amendment would do that. the amendment would also require three years of data collection before planning starts for additional pollution controls. the epa has decided that it needs three years of data to ensure that chronic sources of particulate matter are accurately identified. complete data will enable states to develop appropriate control strategies. reducing pm 2.5 is important to the public health but we must be sure that new controls are used where they are needed. without sufficient monitoring data. we will  be certain the right sources are targeted for controls. and we may  achieve the improved air quality or the health benefits that we are seeking. along the same lines. we need to be sure we can chemically distinguish one type of particulate from aher. that is the only way state air officials will k if they need to reduce pollution from wood stoves or power plants. this amendment requires a field study of the monitors to ensure that they are serving this purpose effectively. the epa promised the states that they would have both the resources and the information necessary to implement the naaqs rule. through this amendment. the senator from oklahoma is attempting to enforce those commitments. all of the goals of this amendment are worthy and reasonable and i urge everyone to support it. essentially what the amendment does is the following: there have to be monitors set up to measure particulate matter and ozone levels and other matter. the question is. who is going to pay for these monitors. is it going to be the federal government. the administrator indicated it would be the federal government. but there seems to be some backing off from that. the amendment of the senator from oklahoma says that the environmental protection agency would cover 100 percent of the costs of installation. you have to install these things and operate them. you have to go out and check these new monitors to measure the fine particulate matter. that is the first thing the senator has accomplished in this amendment. that is a very welcome provision because the -state budgets are having trouble keeping up with the requirements of the clean air act. the other part of his amendment would codify the requirement under the national ambient air quality standards. that calls for 3 years of data collection before there can be a designation of attainment for this particular part of socalled particulate matter. so. the epa has decided that 3 years of data are necessary to ensure that chronic sources of particulate matter are accurately identified. as i understand the amendment of the senator. it requires 3 years. am i correct.
. i thank the distinguished senator from nevada for his kind comments. he has been a very valuable member of the environment and public works committee. i guess. ever since he came here to the senate. we have worked closely together on a whole series of matters. he has particularly been involved with the endangered species act. revisions of which i hope- we can bring to a conclusion .pretty soon. so i thank the senator for all his very constructive work in our committee and on this legislation likewise.
. i want to salute the senators who worked so hard on this: senator wyden and senator graham. we are very proud that they are members of the environment committee. they are very valuable members of that committee. and senator smith worked very hard. and is likewise. so we are ready to go to a vote.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on agriculture. nutrition. and forestry be allowed to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 1998. at 9 a.m. in sr328a. the purpose of this meeting will be to hold a hearing examining the kyoto treaty on climate change and its effect on the agricultural ecoy.
i will take 30 seconds. and the senator from idaho will take 30 seconds. more than half of all the endangered species in the united states are in private lands. in the endangered species reauthorization act. we put in moneys. we provide for assistance to private landowners. most of them small landowners. we do that. the chairman of the budget committee provided that if any blm lands are soldif they are sold. those moneys. instead of going into the general treasury. will be used for the endangered species act to help landowners. mostly small landowners.
. i express my sincere gratitude to the manager of the bill. senator stevens. and to the chair of the subcommittee on interior. senator gorton. yesterday. i raised with them an issue of concern regarding amendments to the coastal barrier resources system. a program under the jurisdiction of the committee on environment and public works. that the conferees were considering. these amendment would have adjusted the boundaries of several units currently in the system in florida. and they are quite controversial. senator stevens and senator gorton were both very gracious and accommodating to my concerns. they chose  to include the amendments. and instead included language in the report stating that the managers will work with the committees of jurisdiction to explore the possibility of a legislative remedy in the context of future appropriations bill or other legislative vehicle. i very must appreciate this collaborative approach. again. i express my sincere thanks to my esteemed colleagues. senators stevens and gorton.
. page 67 of the committee report accompanying the departments of veterans affairs and housing and urban development. and independent agencies appropriations bill of 1999 includes $8 million for the national rural water association. in addition to the appropriation to the national rural water association. the committee es that "states are authorized to set aside 2 percent of the funds provided under their drinking water state revolving fund allotment." i ask my friend from missouri if he and other members -of the appropriations committee are implying that the 2 percent set aside authorized in section 1452(g)(2) of the safe drinking water act amendments of 1996 is to be used for grants made to the national rural water association and various regional community action organizations.
. i believe this is an important bill that will go a long way in helping protect some of the worlds most ecologically sensitive and vital areas. the tropical forest conservation act promotes debt reduction. investment reforms. community based conservation and sustainable use of the environment. in addition. it stretches limited federal dollars making an effective use of international environmental assistance. i urge my colleagues here in the senate to support s. 1758.
yes. it is my opinion that providing drinking water state revolving loan fund money to the community of colwich to create a public water system will further the health objectives of the safe drinking water act amendments of 1996. therefore. the state of kansas has the authority to allocate dwsrf money to the community of colwich.
i agree with the senior senator from vermont that although the epa mercury report does the best job so far in quantifying mercury emissions. many believe that the report understates the actual amount of mercury being released to the environment. along with senator leahy. i voiced my concern when the release of the epa mercury report was delayed. it is my understanding the epa is taking a number of longoverdue steps to address mercury emissions. toward the end of obtaining better data on mercury emissions from coalfired power plants. we should begin collecting information from these facilities on the mercury that they emit. as chairman of the environment and public works committee. i intend to hold hearings in september on the issues raised by the epa mercury report and senator leahys amendment in order to foster a broader public discussion from all concerned parties about the information and findings that are contained in the epa mercury report.
. for the past year. the majority leader. senator bob smith. and i have been working with our colleagues on the environment and public works committee and the administration to draft legislation to address some of the requirements of the resource conservation and recovery act ("rcra") that currently impede the cleanup of literally thousands of contaminated sites across the nation. this socalled "rcra rifleshot" would have been an important piece of legislation. it would have demonstrated once again that we can improve our environmental laws. without jeopardizing human health or the environment. and reduce unnecessary costs. just last year. the government accounting office reported that eliminating those impediments to cleanup could save up to $2.1 billion per year and. at the same time. significantly expedite environmentally responsible cleanups. it was our hope to craft a bipartisan bill that could be enacted this year. our goal was a shared oneto develop legislation to eliminate overly restrictive treatment standards for mediation waste. to streamline permitting requirements. and preserve existing state cleanup programs. all while still ensuring that human health and the environment are protected. under senator lotts leadership. we worked hard to achieve that goal and i believe that we made significant progress in resolving our differences. unfortunately. we were  able to reach a final agreement and we have essentially run out of time. i remain committed. however. to the goal of improving the remediation waste program. i continue to believe that this is an important issue and that with appropriate legislation we can achieve a significant environment benefit--cleaning up thousands of contaminate sites and saving billions of dollars. that is clearly a worthwhile goal. therefore. i intend to make rcra reform a priority for the environment and public works committee in the next congress. building on the progress that we have made this year. and with senator lotts continued leadership. it is my hope that we will move legislation through the senate early in the next congress.
madam president. senator hollings. on july 31. 1997 introduced a bill that makes a boundary change to unit m09. edisto island. which was referred to the committee on environment and public works. it is my understanding that the amendment he is  offering is identical to your bill. is that correct.
. i am pleased to have an opportunity to talk about s. 1677. the wetlands and wildlife enhancement act of 1998. this bill will reauthorize the th american wetlands conservation act (nawca)a law that has played a central role in the conservation of wetlands habitat across the continent. i am joined by 58 of my colleagues from 42 states in sponsoring s. 1677. there are 35 republican cosponsors and 23 democrat cosponsors. this tremendous showing of bipartisan support is a tribute to one of the great success stories in wildlife conservation. nawca has helped to bring about the recovery of more than 30 species of ducks. geese. and other waterfowl and migratory birds from their lowest population numbers just 12 years ago to some of their highest population numbers this year. why was nawca originally enacted. in the early 1980s. we were alarmed to discover that populations of duck and other waterfowl had plummeted precipitously. the numbers were stark: in only ten years. breeding populations of ducks fell an average of 31 percent. with some species declining by as much as 61 percent. this decline was due to several factors. including loss of habitat and an extended drought in many parts of the u.s. in 1986. the u.s. and canada worked cooperatively to develop the th american waterfowl management plan. mexico joined the plan in 1994. so that the entire continent  participates in this effort. the plan established ambitious goals and inative strategies for conserving waterfowl habitat. under the leadership of senator george mitchell. congress approved nawca in 1989. primarily as a vehicle to implement the plan. the law provides a permanent funding source for wetlands conservation projects. many of which fall under the auspices of the plan. these sources includefederal appropriations. interest generated from shortterm investments on the pitmanrobertson fund. money from the wallopbreaux fund. and fines collected under the migratory bird treaty act. all told. nawca received $43 million this past year. of which $11.7 million was appropriated. since nawcas inception. 575 projects involving more than 800 partners have received $240 million in federal funds under nawca. matched by more than $360 million in federal funds. these projects have covered about 3.8 million acres throughout the continent. these numbers are impressive. but in the scheme of things. nawca is a relatively modest law. even so. it enjoys broad support. this is because. quite simply. nawca works. in fact. it works so well that it should serve as a model for other environmental laws. i would like to outline what i believe are the four components of its successand thus. it popularity. 1. nawca focuses on habitat conservation as the key to saving species. ducks and other waterfowl are extraordinarily dependent on climate. they need wet weather to thrive. during years of drought. waterfowl populations dwindle. if their habitat vanishes as well. waterfowl populations do  stand a chance of rebounding when the rains return. the beauty of nawca is that it seeks to protect the habitat itself. whether the waterfowl are there or . that way. when the rains come and the waterfowl. return. the habitat is waiting for them. thus. habitat conservation is the means to achieve the end of waterfowl protection. if waterfowlor any other creatures threatened with population decline or extinction--are going to survive. they must have available habitat capable of sustaining them. in focusing on wetlands habitat. nawca reaches far beyond waterfowl species. also sharing the same habitat are migratory birds. raptors. songbirds. shorebirds. and even black bears. otters. and other mammals. among these species. the habitat is the common currencyprotect the habitat and you protect all of them. professor e.o. wilson has said. when a natural ecosystem. say a forest remnant or a freshwater stream. is protected to save a particular species. an umbrella is thrown over hundreds or thousands of other species ... [and.] the great paly of lesser kn. often unkn. and frequently invisible organisms are what sustain natural environments. this is a basic principle of biology. however. nawca has transformed this principle into design. let me read from the 1989 senate committee report on the original nawca: one of the purposes of this legislation. is to broaden the focus of (the th american waterfowl management] plan with respect to conservation of wetland ecosystems and the other migratory birds and other fish and wildlife dependent thereon. this purpose was further reinforced in 1994. when the plan was amended to explicitly consider the needs of migratory birds when developing projects. 2. nawca makes use of coordinated. comprehensive. continentwide planning to achieve its wetlands conservation goals. it is important to protect habitat. but the key is king which land to protect. this is where the th american waterfowl management plan comes in. without the plan. nawca would be just aher grants program. giving money to worthy projects for a worthy cause. but without any sense of the whole picture. the plan identifies broad goals and strategies for recovering waterfowl populations across th america. ten joint ventures across all four flyways have been formed to refine the goals and strategies for their specific regions. the joint ventures also coordinate projects to conserve wetlands. partnerships among federal. state. conservation groups. and landownersbig or smallform to develop projects and submit proposals for federal matching money under nawca. the proposals are then reviewed by the th american wetlands conservation council. which makes recommendations to the migratory bird conservation commission. which then approves the funding. the council consists of nine members. as follows: the director of the service. the secretary of the board for the national fish and wildlife foundation. four directors of state and wildlife agencies. one from each of the four flyways. and three representatives of charitable and profit organizations actively participating in wetlands conservation projects. the state agency directors and the representatives of charitable and profit organizations are appointed by the secretary for threeyear terms. thus. the plan and act work in concert with one aher. beginning with -broad planning guidelines for the entire continent. and ending with individual projects for protecting and managing specific acres in our very communities. a perfect example of this holistic approach is an initiative. in the mississippi alluvial valley. which stretches from the mouth of the mississippi river up into tennessee. this is where the cutting edge of conservation planning is taking place. through modern satellite imagery and gis techogy. habitat types can be identified and mapped. this ecological mapping is then compared with land ownership. giving federal. state. and local governments. as well as private owners. an idea of the most important lands to conserve. the result. areas of habitat fragmentation can be pinpointed. and reforestation and wetlands restoration can be targeted to meet the needs of sensitive and declining species. 3. nawca relies on publicprivate partnerships to achieve its wetlands conservation goals. the partners are a big reason for nawcas success. instead of the heavy hand of government regulation. nawcas wetlands conservation goals are achieved by voluntary cooperative partnerships involving very diverse people and organizationsbusinesses. profit environmental groups. hunters. farmers. state. tribal. and local governments. and of course the federal government. under the auspices of nawca. people and groups with widely divergent. often opposing points of view have found common ground in wetlands. the kind of cooperation that nawca has engendered is heartening indeed. through this work to achieve the goals of the plan. a broad array of people have had the opportunity to develop a deep and abiding appreciation of wetlands and the need to protect them. e has contributed to the program more than ducks unlimited. - has anyone been more vital to its success. that organization alone has contributed in total about $20 million to the projects in the u.s.. and about aher $60 million to projects in canada and mexico. the nature conservancy has also been a tremendous supporter of the program. contributing $17 million to projects in the u.s. and aher $4 million to projects in canada. however. these groups do more than raise money. they educate landowners. coordinate partnerships. and give the program the exposure it deserves. because du plays such an important role. we are amending s. 1677 to place them on the council for one additional term of 3 years. while at the same time requiring the service to develop a policy. subject to ice and comment rulemaking procedures. to develop a fair and formal process for making future appointments to the council. i expect the service to balance the policy between groups such as du and tnc. whose support is invaluable. and between other groups that might be smaller but who bring new ideas and new forms of participation to the program. nawca has also reached out to private landowners across the continentsmall. family owned farms. large developers. and private individuals. in my own state of rhode island. it is private individuals who have made the difference for some of the best remaining waterfowl habitat in the state. in conjunction with the nature conservancy and state and federal government agencies. we have a phased restoration in progress to rectify years of damage as a result of dredge spoil deposited along a tidal channel. poorly planned road construction. and a recent oil spill. in phase i of the south shore habitat protection project. mr. oliver hazard donated an 80 acre tract of land to the nature conservancy valued at $900.000. in phase ii. william viall donated 110 acres valued at $640.000 to the town of th kingston. on the opposite side of the continent. it was a partnership among two state agencies. the metropolitan services district of portland. several national and local conservation groups. and a local dairy farmer. e.f. steinborn. who collaborated to restore 500 acress within the tualatin river floodplain near portland. oregon. the project converted a large dairy farm to seasonal and permanent wetlands providing habitat for thousands of waterfowl. shorebirds. and songbirds. complementing wetlands on the adjacent refuge. the projectlocated on the outskirts of portlandis a wonderful example of how we can reclaim lands for conservation before they get swallowed up by urban expansion. aher example is an area in swan lake basin. located in a wildlife refuge in the san joaquin valley of california. swan lake basin was a dry channeled area. but with nawca funds and four months of restoration work it has been transformed into a lake with freeflowing drainage. the area  provides nesting and resting groups for hundreds of white pelicans. as well as doublecrested comorants. grebes. 8.000 canvasback ducks. 6.000 thern shovelers. and 40.000 gadwalls. the benefits of these partnerships go far beyond specific projects. however. they facilitate the flow of ideas and inations across borders. only in the last decade. for example. has canada begun to use conservation easements and servitudes to protect land from development.. legislation within the provinces has been enacted to broaden the use of this valuable tool for conservation. it is without doubt that the partnerships under nawca have stimulated this awareness and can take part of the credit for these new developments in canada. here is a case where the united states. canada and mexico have come together to identify a common need. consider just one nawca site in quill lake. canada. banding data reveal that waterfowl using that site have visited other nawca sites. represented by the blue circles. all across the continent. imagine the synergies of all nawca projects helping each other. and. by enacting nawca. the united states has lead the way in providing a reliable funding structure to address it. we have been able to turn good international intentions into superlative international action. 4. nawca leverages federal dollars with private funds for wetlands conservation. we all k how tight the federal budget is. inative funding mechanisms are the best hope for ensuring the viability of important environmental programs. the th american wetlands conservation fund. which was established by nawca. provides grant money with a matching requirement to leverage each federal dollar. in fact. the ratio of nawca funds to contributions from other partners usually approaches 1:2.  let me inject a word of caution. we can afford complacency. nawca has been a success. but part of the credit for the recovery of waterfowl species has to go to the heavy rains weve had in the past few years. this year is drier than it has been in the past. already. duck counts are leveling off. in drier conditions. the need to conserve duck habitat is ever more urgent. and this urgent need to conserve wetlands is in direct competition with severe development pressures on wetlands. by the year 2020. more than half of the u.s. population will live in coastal plains. laws like nawca will become ever more important in protecting these fragile areas. the proper tribute to the success of nawca is to let it inspire us to do more. let us reauthorize this fine bill. let us ensure it is adequately funded. let us support the other important laws that protect wetlands--such as swampbuster and section 404 of the clean water act. and most of all. let us build on the strengths of nawca in all our environmental protection endeavors. again. those strengths are: 1. focus on conserving habitat. 2. use a comprehensive plan--continentwide. if possible. 3. rely on publicprivate partnerships--both national and international. 4. leverage federal dollars with private funds. i exhort my colleagues to support s. 1677. and reauthorize the very worthy th american wetlands conservation act. i thank the chair.
. i would like to commend my colleague from louisiana. senator landrieu. for her herculean efforts in developing this legislation. she has worked tirelessly with other senators. the house. and numerous stakeholders. including industry groups and environmental groups alike. the bill she introduces today reflects her tremendous dedication to this issue. i also applaud senator landrieus efforts to shape this legislation into a significant conservation initiative. her legislation includes two titles devoted to environmental protectiontitle 11 for funding the land and water conservation fund (lwcf). and title iii for funding game species protection by the states. kn as teaming with wildlife. these worthwhile programs have  received the attention or funding they deserve on their own. and the inclusion in this legislation gives them an opportunity to fulfill their potential. in particular. the lwcf was created in 1964 with the principle that revenues from- a resource extraction activityoffshore oil drillingshould be reinvested in the acquisition and protection of other natural resources with lasting value. senator landrieus bill remains true to this principle. s. 2566 is a major piece of legislation. with much promise. it deserves careful consideration. i intend to give the bill this consideration during recess. i intend to consult with different groups here. and with constituents in my home state of rhode island. some groups have raised concerns that this bill will encourage offshore drilling. despite the senators strong statement that this bill is "drillingneutral." i would like to reach my own conclusion on this score. different interest groups have made suggestions to improve the provisions in all three titles. and i would like to explore those as well during recess. senator landrieu has expressed a genuine openness to consider new ideas. anda genuine willingness to incorporate good ideas into her legislation. i look forward to working with my colleague from louisiana during the coming months on this initiative. and again. i wholeheartedly congratulate her on how far she has come already.e
. we are here today because we believe that climate change presents a serious threat. we believe it makes sense to get started . and. as many leading american companies do. we believe that there are sensible. fair and voluntary methods to get on the right track. we encourage our colleagues to use the time between  and next january to review this legislation carefully. we are open to suggestions. most importantly. we are looking for others to join us in this effort.
in response to the question of the senator from colorado. every day that goes by without conservation measures is a further display of our weakness to those who are setting the artificially high price. it proves to them that they are right. that they can maintain their inflated price and they can jack it up still farther. every day that goes by that this nation does  act shows there is inherent weakness in the nation. what i think is unfair is that i do  think the american people are at all weak. but i must confess that the political leadershipboth in the executive and the legislative branches--is speaking some very weak language right . i want to see done what everyone feels in his heart should be done. i want the message to be heard that there is way we are going to be able to stanch the outflow of dollars unless energy conservation becomes a national ethic.
. it has been 5 years since earth day. yet the serious threats which endangered our environment then continue to do so today. clean air. clean water. and a healthier environment are the goals toward which we must strive. but  that earth day is but a mere remembrance of things past. where do we go . what lies ahead. for one thing. we must look to our elected representatives for the guidance and wisdom to restore our environment. one man who has always lent his help is senator hugh scott. every day is earth day for our esteemed miity leader. pennsylvanias senior senator. hugh scott. his enviable record on environment and conservation matters should be an example for all of us to follow. as ranking republican member on the environment subcommittee of the senate commerce committee. i ask unanimous consent that senator scotts achievements in the area of the environment be printed in the record.
this amendment. entitled -the "whale protection and conservation study act." calls for a federal program for the protection and conservation of all whale species found in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the united states. including the newly declared 200 mile fisheries conservation zone which will be implemented in march i am sure that my colleagues are well aware of the disasterous plight of the whale today. every day. some species of whales are hunted and killed to produce such ordinary items as soap. margerine. lubricating oil. and cosmetics. all of which can be produced from synthetic substitutes readily available from other sources. although there are quotas set by the international whaling commission on the numbers of whales permitted to be taken each year. these quotas are established by gross estimates based on insufficient information. such measures can begin to adequately protect these great creatures. whales are of great esthetic and scientific interest to all mankind and the vital role they play in our marine ecosystem we simply can afford to disregard. the sperm whale which is the state animal of connecticut is presently the most heavily hunted species by commercial whalers. each year the size of the animals killed is smaller than the year before indicating that the stock is being overfished in spite of the international whaling commissions regulations. much more kledge and information on these magnificent creatures and their habitats is required before we can even begin to k how mans activities affect and endanger their existence. and apply that new understanding to effective programs of protection and conservation. the purpose of this amendment is to require the secretary of commerce to conduct comprehensive studies on the migration patterns and population dynamics of whales as well as the possible impact of habitat destruction or modification resulting from offshore development and everincreasing pollution. the studies are to be used as a basis for formulation of adequate protection and conservation laws and regulations. the results of the study are to be reported to congress along with recommendations for legislative action by january the amendment also requires that all federal agencies cooperate in carrying out the study and formulating the recommendations. . the time has come for us to act in an intelligent and rational manner to protect all whales from the rapidly approaching threat of extinction. but before we can effectively take the steps needed to do this. we must k more about the lives and ecosystems of these magnificent creatures. along with some immediate conservation measures. this bill provides for those first stepsthe studies upon which we must base our conservation efforts. in order to be accurate and comprehensive. those studies will require time and a great deal of effort. and unless we move quickly to create the opportunity to acquire this needed information . before too much longer. the opportunity may disappear along with the whales.
the shell is stuck in the breech and somebody had better open it. what worries me about this legislation is. if we pass it the way it stands. the american people will have every right to believe that this great leadership has provided a conservation ethic for the united states of america. it has provided hing. it is a name on a bill. the content does  support the name. so i hope that my colleagues will see fit to pass this first step toward conservation where. indeed. a small sacrifice is required of our people. but the savings would be emous. the message it would send to the rest of the world is that. indeed. we do have some steel up our back. that we have been pushed around more than egh. you can take your prices of your oil and do youkwhat with them. i think that is what is important. rather than have to sit here and accept that which is thrown at us in the way of price increases. rather than sit here and. in effect. have our whole foreign policy. to some extent. dictated by those who are involving themselves in blackmail. these are the matters that are far more important to this nation than are being pointed out by the leadership.
i think the answer to that is as the answer was back in 1973: all those cars that were in line at the cutoff time were allowed to get gasoline. there are many small details such as this i am sure can be worked out. as i said. if my colleagues object to this form of rationing. let them choose the plan i offered. or i will withdraw both of my amendments if the committee will put into this puffball bill just one provision requiring some form of mandatory conservation on the part of american that they are directly going to be involved with and feel. i have pride of authorship. and i am  saying that my idea is necessarily the best. but the concept of mandatory conservation is what is important. the concept that senators are going to go to all their constituents and say. "i have a plan here that is going to cost you something in your lifestyle." so long as we achieve that. let somebody else stand up. and i will be glad to support his offer. i assure senators that a thousand deficiencies can be found in each of these amendments as to its administration. let us face it: the senator from hawaii ks. as the senator from louisiana ks. as my colleagues on this side of the aisle k. what it is we are running away from. we are  running away from some administrative detail. we are running away from the concept of mandatory conservation. because a majority of americans are  involved in the mandatory conservation. and it is majorities that elect politicians. that is what is involved here today.
and. where the situation exists in the case of biologically dependent species. this is a matter that would have to be taken into consideration. with the exact result that the senator from wyoming correctly statedof. in effect. creating aher endangered species by breaking the food chain.
the shell is stuck in the breech and somebody had better open it. what worries ine about this legislation is. if we pass it the way it stands. the american people will have every right to believe that this great leadership has provided a conservation ethic for the united states of america. it has provided hing. it is a name on a bill. the content does  support the name. so i hope that my colleagues will see fit to pass this first step toward conservation where. indeed. a small sacrifice is required of our people. but the savings woulc be emous. the message it would send to the rest ol the world is that. indeed. we do have some steel up our back. that we have been pushed around more than egh. you can take your prices of your oil and do jouk. what with them. i think that is what is important. rather than have to sit here and accept that which is thrown at us in the way of price increases. rather than sit there and. in effect. have our whole foreign policy. to some extent. dictated by those who are involving themselves in blackmail. these are the matters that are far more important to this nation than are being pointed out by the leadership.
there we have it in a nutshell: conservation without rationing. that is what the united states of america wants. conservation without rationing. how preposterous and ridiculous can we get. there is rationing at the present time. as i pointed out anyway. it is rationing by price which apparently is all right since it does  affect the majority of the voters. how can there be any conservation without rationing in some form. i find i suppose my argument is a little difficult before the chair. before you. . but it seems to me we are getting into the very substance of the debate. whether it be on the bill or whether it be on the amendment. i think the very nature of what it is i am saying proves the germaneness of what it is i am offering before the senate.
 of the united states. while he got his political house in order. and by other nations of the world who are taking advantage of our lack of selfdiscipline. that is what is involved. pure and simple. i suggest to senators that the way to handle this matter is to get to work. to continue to do it in committee and on the floor and wherever it occurs. if need be. fine. go home to your constituents on the weekends. i do  think they have many nice things to say to many of us. and they will have fewer nice things to say when we appear in our bathing suits or in our tennis shorts or whatever. while they are paying more for a gallon of gasoline. if they can get it. i will show you how we act and why it looks ridiculous. in 1977. i offered my modified conservation proposal of a 6day week for the automobile. and it was defeated by a vote of 83 to 7. one month ago. i had it up againa few things changedand i was beaten by a vote of 79 to 10. it was exactly the same result. the same piece of legislation. but a few things have changed. and the things that have changed. i think. have to change our style in the senate and our attention to detail and to duty. i k we have that capacity. i am sorry we had this done to us. but i am sure the american people are just as sorry about what has been done to them. so let us march along with them and do what has to be done.
i thank the distinguished senator from new york. as i understand the amendment which  to establish an appropriate target. and would change the base date for computation of the national and state monthly conservation targets from ember 1. 1979 to january 1. 1979. in addition. certain technical and administrative changes would be made. i accept the changes made by the amendment of senator javits.
. it is under section 6 of the endangered species act that the secretary is given the authority to enter into management and cooperative agreements with the states for the purposes of managing habitats of endangered and threatened species and engaging in other joint activities. these efforts are funded through federal matching grants to the states and represent the. major provision of the act for effecting recovery. one needs only to examine the legislative history of the act to find that congress intended that a cooperative federalstate relationship be initiated and sustained. the house recognizes the importance of the states cooperative recovery of endangered species and has added $4.000.000 to restore the program. i would hope that my colleagues on the interior appropriations conference will view the $4.000.000 favorably and concede to the house.e
. during debate on h.r. 6211. the surface transportation act of 1982. it had been my intention to offer language which would address a critical bridge problem along the theast corridor. my amendment would have directed the states in expending their apportioned bridge funds to give strong consideration to bridges which overpass the theast corridor improvement project. it would  have siphoned money away from the states major bridge projects. however. in deference to the need to approve this important legislation before the adjournment of the 97th congress. i instead engaged in a colloquy with my distinguished colleague.  of the committee on environment and public works. and i commend senator stafford and his- staff for their cooperation and assistance in this regard. the colloquy focused on 209 bridges which overpass the theast corridor for which neither amtrak  the states claim responsibility for their upkeep and maintenance. while states do  dlaim responsibility. they do include these bridges in the bridge inventories upon which apportionments for federal bridge assistance are calculated. since h.r. 6211 establishes a new. strong federal commitment to bridge rehabilitation and replacement. the following bridges have been indentified as "orphan bridges" and clearly would qualify for bridge assistance funding under the bridge repair and rehabilitation program authorized under section 144 of title 23 of the united states code. the list follows:
. i rise reluctantly to oppose the amendment of my good friend from kentucky because again this is a matter that has been of concern to him over a period of time. he has been responsible for the various asbestos inquiries that have been launched. on the other hand. i have a budgetary problem. it is hard egh -to live with. never mind situations wvhere the necessary reports and conclusions are yet to be in hand. i e that the house bill does include the $50 million for the startup of the asbestos hazards control loan program as authorized by section 6 of the asbestos school hazards control act of 1980. the committee is also deeply concerned about potential health hazards posed by the incidence of asbestos in our nations schools. several months ago. the committee requested that the department of education submit a report by september 1. 1983. on the extent of the problem confronting school districts that must remove asbestos. where it has been identifiled. as well as the cost of removal. number of districts affected and the availability of any federal support for such purposes. although the report had been requested to be submitted later than september 1. 1983. the department recently. has requested a 1menth extension in order to obtain the full information requested. accordingly. the committee believes it would be prudent to await the report in order to study the full magnitude of this probltm before considering possible funding of a major new asbestos removal program. i might suggest to my good friend from kentucky that with the report in hand. once we have an assessment of the extent of the problem.. we should review its connection with the supplemental. since that is what supplementals are meant to encompass. if indeed the occasion so demands. so i rise to oppose the amendment. but very frankly. i point out that in a short period of time. we may all be together on this issue. i hope that the senator from kentucky would see his way clear to having the report in hand and then consider exactly what financial requirements are required by that report and i suggestthat we can move together on the problem at such time.
i am willing to support my colleagues proposal but i want to make it very clear. putting epa on ice. that it had better fully cooperate with a in the expenditure of funds contained in this legislation. i fully expect epa to utilize a resources in the assessment and monitoring activities that are provided by this appropriation and plan to follow up with epa to assure that such cooperation is taking place. i also expect a and epa to provide an informal report to the environment and public works committee and to the hud appropriations subcommittee on the progress made in the transfer of funds and on the start up of the monitoring and assessment work by
. i rise reluctantly to oppose the amendment of my good friend from kentucky because again this is a matter that has been of concern to him over a period of time. he has been responsible for the various asbestos inquiries that have been launched. on the other hand. i have a budgetary problem. it is hard egh -to live with. never mind situations wvhere the necessary reports and conclusions are yet to be in hand. i e that the house bill does include the $50 million for the startup of the asbestos hazards control loan program as authorized by section 6 of the asbestos school hazards control act of 1980. the committee is also deeply concerned about potential health hazards posed by the incidence of asbestos in our nations schools. several months ago. the committee requested that the department of education submit a report by september 1. 1983. on the extent of the problem confronting school districts that must remove asbestos. where it has been identifiled. as well as the cost of removal. number of districts affected and the availability of any federal support for such purposes. although the report had been requested to be submitted later than september 1. 1983. the department recently. has requested a 1menth extension in order to obtain the full information requested. accordingly. the committee believes it would be prudent to await the report in order to study the full magnitude of this probltm before considering possible funding of a major new asbestos removal program. i might suggest to my good friend from kentucky that with the report in hand. once we have an assessment of the extent of the problem.. we should review its connection with the supplemental. since that is what supplementals are meant to encompass. if indeed the occasion so demands. so i rise to oppose the amendment. but very frankly. i point out that in a short period of time. we may all be together on this issue. i hope that the senator from kentucky would see his way clear to having the report in hand and then consider exactly what financial requirements are required by that report and i suggestthat we can move together on the problem at such time.
i am willing to support my colleagues proposal but i want to make it very clear. putting epa on ice. that it had better fully cooperate with a in the expenditure of funds contained in this legislation. i fully expect epa to utilize a resources in the assessment and monitoring activities that are provided by this appropriation and plan to follow up with epa to assure that such cooperation is taking place. i also expect a and epa to provide an informal report to the environment and public works committee and to the hud appropriations subcommittee on the progress made in the transfer of funds and on the start up of the monitoring and assessment work by
. i ask unanimos consent that the committee on environment and public works be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. september 10. to hold a hearing to consider s. 2340. the oil pollution liability and compensation act of 1986.
. there have been several poorly understood incidents of diseased or dying marine life over the last few years. these include the die off of sea urchins in the caribbean. unprecedented numbers of porpoise and whale deaths off of new england. the bleaching of coral reefs acro s the caribbean. and the many localized fish kills in estuaries up and down the atlantic coast. these events all tell us t: at the marine environment is under severe stress. i would a:.k all of my colleagues to support the provisions of the legislation before us today whieh seek to improve our limited kledge of the marine environment and of the ways in which we affect. it through ocean dumping.
. on april 25. the new center for space research at the massachusetts institute of techogy was formally dedicated. massachusetts has long been in the forefront of the research activity of our national space program. and this center is both a fitting tribute to her efforts thus far and a suitable environment for future breakthroughs. in his remarks on this occasion. gover volpe portrays our space program as a new frontier of kledge to be harnessed for peaceful purposes. i ask unanimous consent that the govers thoughtful statement be printed in the record.
. i hope i may be permitted to add a final comment to the significance of this petition. one of the perplexing facts of our time is what we might call the paradox of progress. as science and techogy have modified the environment in the service of man. they have created new problems and new challenges of their own. largely because progress has brought its own perils. public confidence in the name of science and their works has waned. it has often been rejected by an overt hostility to the products of modern science and to a suspicion that the men of the laboratory are. in a familiar stereotype. dr. strangeloves. like all stereotypes. this one is a disservice to the scientific community and to the public at large. it is true that scientific progress poses grave questions to public policy. ren6 dubos. the distinguished biologist. captured the bittersweet quality of sciences impact on society in a bit of doggerel some years ago: science seeks out ingenious ways to kill strong men and keep alive the weak and ill. that these a sickly progeny may breed. too poor to tax. too numerous to feed. it is easy to be disheartened by such a gloomy prospect and to lose sight of the affirmative aspects of scientific progress. yet a fair perspective must recognize that research and development themselves contain some of the most promising approaches to relieving the unwanted byproducts of their own evolution. it would be very serious indeed if the festering ill will between some citizens and the research community should lead to a breach in the productive relationship which has long existed between american scientists and the society in which they dwell. we need to take e of the manner in which the diverse energies of american research are seeking channels for service. one should observe. for example. that much of the drive to cleanse our environment has come from an awakened scientific community. one needs to remember that important contributions to the impending population problems. particularly kledge and techniques for family planning. are the product of concerned scientists. and all americans need to remember that by far the most informed critiques of the arms race. together with farreaching concepts for arms control. have originated in the scientific fraternity. the expression of 436 members of the massachusetts institute of techogy faculty is but the latest in an endless series of efforts by american men of science to steer the techogy they spawn in the most constructive direction. i believe it is especially timely that they have spoken .  only because of the unique phase in which the arms race finds itself. but because of the extraordinary tensions which have surrounded american universities and their relation to the public. regaining our national composure and securing the blessings of a stable peace will require other such initiatives. i have every confidence that these and other scientists will work diligently to insure that modern techogy promotes human welfare. succors human misery. and curbs human conflicts.
 nixon has said. it is an historic report. and as such it deserves our close attention. the main value of the report lies  in the facts and figures it contains. but in those that it does  contain. the report points out many dangerous gaps in our information on the environment and in the application of that information. compiling the information for this report and putting it into written form took many man hours. but the real task is still before us. and that task is ours. if we are truly serious in our determination to achieve a quality environmentand i believe that we arethen we must act to close our information gaps. it is crucially important. for example. that we develop adequate environmental monitoring systems. that will take much of the guesswork out of determining our environmental needs. we should k. better than we do. what the effects of various changes in the environment are on people. we need to understand what effects things like crowding. se. and smog have on human beings. and we need to k where these conditions exist and whether they are increasing or decreasing in severity. to take but one example of how such research can be helpful: the mercury poisoning of our water would  have reached such grave proportions if we had adequate monitoring systems. -other critical areas discussed in the report include the need to find more practical and less expensive methods of recycling solid wastes. and the need to develop ecoic incentives that will discourage waste and pollution by industries. communities. and private citizens alike. it is my sincere hope that this report by the council on environmental quality will. motivate the congress to pass some strong environmental legislation. the report makes it clear that we can. with good conscience. avoid this responsibility any longer.
. this legislation is designed to allow trade in antique scrimshaw work to continue while assuring that living whales will face any danger. when the 93d congress enacted the endangered species act a technical error prohibited interstate commerce in scrimshaw art. many of our antique dealers were left with old and valuable pieces of scrimshaw art of which they could  dispose. these antiquarians are themselves firm environmentalists who would  for an instant tolerate any contemporary killing of the worlds remaining whales. they deserve to be able to carry on their trade in examples of this art form which. under our new laws. is a thing of history. both senator kennedy and i worked hard for the passage of both the marine mammal protection act of 1972 and the endangered species act of 1973. our commitment to the preservation of the whale is total and unswerving. this legislation admits possibility of changing or violating the moratorium on whale killing which is in effect. i hope. indefinitely. neither the marine mammal protection act  the endangered species act is in any way weakened or threatened by this proposal. in fact. it simply makes the 1973 act technically consistent with the marine mammal protection act by permitting the trade of antique scrimshaw pieces. there is way in which this objective is in conflict with protection of living whales.  would i tolerate any move which did in fact endanger this. or any other. species. i trust my colleagues will enact this relief for our antique dealers without delay.
. that such realistic conservation initiatives are long overdue. i urge my colleagues to enact h.. 8650 and to resist any weakening or crippling amendments that may be offered to this important legislation.
. when we passed the clean air act in 1970. we stated that the bills purpose was "to protect and enhance the quality of the nations air resources." subsequent to our action. the courts determined that the congress intended to prevent the air from "significant" deterioration in areas where the air is cleaner than the standards. that court ruling. which has shaped the environmental protection agencysepapolicy regarding clean air. is  being addressed by the congress. i do believe it was the intent of the congress to prohibit "significant" deterioration in clean areas and i do  believe that we should take a step backward from our original stand on this issue. my state of massachusetts was one of 16 states which filed a brief prior to the court ruling on this matter stating that secondary air standards would cause harm to our ecoic base. and. the senate report in 1970 on the act supported the courts interpretation of the epas role regarding significant deterioration. furthermore. the same pollutants that reduce visibility have an impact on crop production. according to a national academy of sciences study. a "significant" deterioration of our air quality on the east coast could produce a 25 to 100 percent loss of many agroic and horticultural crops and cause severe injury to many natural species. however. my concern about crop production. my desire to support the position of my state and my refusal to detract from the senates original intent on this matter seem in opposition to the claim some make that a strong deterioration policy was syymous with a "growth" policy. i certainly believe that industry should be given the opportunity to expand and employment should  be prevented from growing. but. i feel that a strong deterloration policy will  preclude further growth by industry. first. the policy would pertain only to international parks. national parks and national wilderness areas in excess of 5.000 acres which are in existence today. future parks and wilderness areas would be placed under a less stringent standard and the states would be given the option of placing them under the more stringent standard. also. the stronger deterioration policy would  be applicable for national forests. second. to insure a flexible policy. those areas which are placed under the less stringent standard will have to reduce pollution by using techogy as determined by the states on a casebycase basis. therefore. many companies will  be required to install extremely expensive antipollution controls to reduce the level of their emissions. third. major emitting facilities whose allowable emission releases would be less than 50 tons for all pollutants after compliance with degradation standards would  be required to demonstrate compliance under the less stringent standards. i believe that these provisions give us the best of both worlds by insuring that our national parks will  be destroyed by pollutants while providing industry with flexibility for future growth. aher controversial issue to be debated by the senate later today concerns the attainment provision. the provisions we have considered require that new sources of pollution in areas where pollution levels exceed health standards will have to meet certain requirements before they can begin functioning. these requirements will strive to attain national health standards in 3 years by insisting that emissions for existing and proposed sources are less than the current emissions in the area. however. to provide industry with a degree of flexibility. the provision also allows the states to grant waivers from specific emission tradeoff requirements if certain criteria are met. to receive a waiver. it must be demonstrated that the cleaner air standards will be met by the proposed compliance date in 1987. this too provides state or industry with the flexibility we need to insure growth that is properly managed.
i certainly do. let me just point out to the distinguished chairman:  only does it  then require implementation of the program to prevent unfair. deceptive. or anticompetitive acts and practices of the program. it also does  require them to adopt procedures to assure that charges would be fair and reasonable or to adopt the procedures for approving suppliers and contractors who sell and install residential conservation measures. including procedures for loss of such approval or adopt procedures for adjusting complaints against suppliers and contractors. i just fail to see why regulated utilities should be exempt from these requirements when regulated utilities are. and if it is  the intent that regulated utilities be required to provide for the programs and procedures which i have referred to in that case. may i respectfully suggest to the distinguished floor managers a possible amendment to clarify this situation. for example. if the chairman would refer to page 13. line 2. i think if we were to strike the period and insert in lieu thereof the following. "and which contains the programs and procedures required by subsection (d) (3). (d) (5). (d) (6). and (d)(7)." that would correct it because all these refer to regulated utilities but  to unregulated utilities. so i would hope that the chairman would seriously consider an amendment to that effect. he may want time to look at that. and i am  going to offer it personally as an amendment at this time. but i do suggest serious consideration of putting unregulated utilities under these requirements. i think it is only fair. i think it is only equitable and gives the protection that i am sure the committee wants.
. there is very little in the conservation package which provides incentives for retrofitting these apartment buildings which are the characteristic dwelling type in so many of our older urban areas. we have  succeeded in designing a plan which assures that tenants would enjoy the benefits of conservation measures taken by their landlords. by making conservation investments eligible for loan guarantees established under the national housing act. we can at least expand the availability of credit for conscientious owners who wish to weatherize such units. it is my understanding. again. that the distinguished floor managers for the majority and the miity have examined this amendment. together with their able staff. and it is my understanding that they will accept the amendment.
as the gentleman ks. he has cooperated with me in an attempt to quickly analyze some figures sent up from the federal works agency yesterday at the chairmans request. having to do with a report made under date of december 30. 1947. it is my understanding the report is from the public buildings administration to the federal works agency. i called the chairmans attention and the attention of the staff to the fact that within recent days mr. steelman has sent a report to me in behalf of a new england delegation subcommittee. which was charged with the responsibility of working out certain developments along conservation lines. that letter. with the accompanying letter from general fleming. is as follows:
as the gentleman ks. i have discussed with him and the clerk of the committee again the question of whether there is contained in this bill any appropriation for the purpose of installing new oilburning equipment or converting from coal- to oilburning equipment. while it is my understanding there is . and therefore there would be need of my pursuing the matter further. i k the gentleman and i are in full accord as to the desirability of making certain  that we carry on this conservation program during our absence in the recess. and that the government also carries that on. i have in mind the item on page 10 that calls for the construction and rebuilding or extension of shore facilities. which i think is explained in the committee report as including only $285.000 for lifeboat stations. which call for heating whatsoever.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate agrees to the report of the committee of conference on the disagreeing votes of the two houses on the amendments of the house to the bill entitled "an act to give to the secretary of agriculture permanent authority to make payments to agricultural producers in order to effectuate the purposes specified in section 7 (a) of the soil conservation and domestic allotment act."
on the point suggested by the senator from louisiana that there may  be a requirement of a local contribution specified in the engineers report. i wish to point out that in the amendment presented by the senior senator from ohio it is provided expressly thatthe work shall  be undertaken until there has been formed under the laws of ohio a conservation district covering the area in question and competent under the laws of ohio to maintain the dikes and levees so repaired and reconstructed. that certainly is as strong a reservation and obligation upon the locality as i have ever seen in bills of this nature. it makes the project absolutely conditional upon the formation of a local conservancy district to maintain the dikes completely.
i understand the people in those neighborhoods draw some of their water supply from that river. and therefore incidentally there is a benefit from it for example at beaver falls and in the areas below it helps to control the steady flow of water.
for himself. mr. gravel. and mr. moss). was received. read twice by its title. referred to the committee on government operations. and ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: s. 2312 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives o the united states of america in congress assembled. that (a) this act may be cited as the "department of conservation and the environment act". (b) it is hereby declared to be the policy of the nation that the safety and general welfare of the people require that the environment of the earth on which we live must be protected. that the people have a right to the preservation of their neighborhoods and communities. to the enjoyment of natural areas and the wildlife indiges thereto. and to the wise and prudent use of all natural resources for the benefit of existing and future generations.
 and the congress. if the secretary made an adverse report. the project could be delayed an additional 120 days while congress decided whether further action is required. this is a strong provision. to be sure. but the environment can be protected by halfway measures. i am confident that if this provision is enacted the various agencies of the federal government will include environmental protection in planning a project rather than risk costly delays at a later date. each day seems to bring news or warning of environmental contamination. only recently the federal food and drug administration seized 22.000 pounds of lake michigan coho salmon because the fish contained dangerous levels of ddt. a few months ago a massive oil leak off santa barbara. california. alarmed the nation. scientist barry commoner of washington university in st. louis told a senate subcommittee recently: "the new techogical man carries strontium90 in his bones. iodine131 in his thyroid. ddt in his fat. asbestos in his lungs." at the present rate of contamination. says mr. commoner. the environment may be irreparably destroyed in perhaps 50 years. the choice before our nation is clear: we can reverse the tide of environmental destruction while there still is time. or we can permit apathy. igance or downright stupidity to bring on a nightmare that may rival nuclear war in its horrors. i am certain that most. if  all. americans will opt for saving our environment while there still is a chance to do it. if this is the course we choose. as i believe we should. then the first step must be a decisive reorganization and strengthening of the federal structure and authority that will carry the burden of salvaging and safeguarding the environment.
. today as never before. the public is rightly concerned about its environment. around us air and water are fouled. se proliferates. parks and open space are swallowed up. the tangible evidence of our history is as much a part of our environment as all the rest. our lives are enriched by visits to the places that recall for us the names. events. and ideas which shaped the growth of our nation. to alter or destroy an historical structure is as much a desecration of the environment as to fill in a marsh or run a freeway through an established neighborhood. i predict that if the congress grants the architect the planning funds he has requested. this will be a downpayment on the extension of our capitol. there will be turning back. extending the west front of the capitol must be held off until we k whether restoration is a possibility. i urge the adoption of our amendment for this purpose.
 and the congress. if the secretary made an adverse report. the project would be delayed up to an additional 120 days while congress decided whether further action was required. this is a strong provision. to be sure. but the environment can be protected by halfway measures. and the successful experience of the state of montana with similar legislation shows how effective the provision can be. i ask unanimous consent that a march 24 article in the new york times. describing the results achieved in montana. and a march 29 article from the same newspaper in regard to the activities of the ash council. to which i referred earlier in my remarks. be printed in the .record.
s reorganization plan calls for giving the environmental protection agency control over the environmental radiation protection functions currently held by the atomic energy commission and the authority to register pesticides which currently is held by the agriculture department along with other transfers of environmental functions. but i am concerned that the new agency would stop short of providing the type of coordination and increased authority for the protection of our environment which is provided in my bill to create a new department of conservation and the environment. although the plan covers much the same area as my bill would cover. it does  include all of the agencies which have environmental functions and would be incorporated into a single department by my bill.  does it provide the additional authority to halt projects which the agency finds to be detrimental to our environment. such as my bill would provide. because these additional provisions are needed. i will continue to work for enactment of my bill to provide for more complete protection of our environment.
. today our environment is in grave danger. with the aid of techogical and scientific developments we have accelerated the pollution of the soil. the air. and the waters to a point where irreparable harm to the health and livability of our surroundings is a distinct possibility. the choice before our nation is clear: we can reverse the tide of environmental destruction while there still is time. or we can permit apathy. igance or downright stupidity to bring on a nightmare that could rival nuclear warfare in its horrors. i am certain that most. if  all. americans will opt for saving our environment while there still is a chance to do it. cxvi2180--part 26 if this is the course we choose. as i believe we should. we must make sure that there is conflict between decisions designed to protect our environment and those designed to develop new resources. it was with this purpose in mind that i introduced more than a year ago. s. 2312. a bill to create a new department of conservation and the environment. my bill was designed specifically to eliminate the disarray and confusion which exists between. and even within. federal agencies over their role in protecting our environment. in my view. reorganization plan  4 contains some elements which could lead in directly the opposite direction. among other things. i am concerned about the inclusion of the bureau of sports fisheries in the national oceanic and atmospheric administration which would be created within the commerce department through reorganization plan  4. the bureau of sports fisheries. particularly through its marine laboratories such as the one located at sandy hook in my state. has contributed a great deal to the protection of our marine environment. there is some question over whether it would be able to continue to make this contribution if it were to be placed under the commerce department. which has primary responsibility for development of our resources. at a press conference anncing submission of reorganization plan  4. russell train. chairman of the counci on environmental quality. was asked why the national oceanic and atmospheric administration was  incorporated in the environmental protection agency proposed by reorganization plan  3. he replied that the environmental protection agency is "intended to focus on the control of pollution while oceans programs. obviously. go far beyond that. development efforts of all sorts." experience has shown that man. government agency. can serve two masters effectively. we can provide adequate protection of the environment by placing responsibility for this function upon agencies which also are charged with the development and exploitation of natural resources. it seems to me. therefore. that the bureau of sports fisheries is being incorporated into the wrong agency. it is oriented to the environment and should be included in the environmental protection agency.  a. which has development efforts of all sorts. therefore. i shall oppose reorganization plan  4 and continue to press for a reorganization of the environmental functions of the federal government into an agency singly devoted to environmental protection.
. as one of two senate members of the u.s. delegation to the united nations conference on human environment in stockholm next year. i am happy to join in sponsoring this resolution which gives congressional support to the objectives i intend to seek at the conference. the resolution expresses the sense of congress that the stockholm conference should consider the international ecoic and social consequences of environmental standards and regulations. it has long been my position that as we seek to protect the environment we must also consider the social and ecoic effects of these efforts. this is true of efforts made on a national basis and it is even more true of those made on an international basis. particularly in regard to the social and ecoic effects on underdeveloped nations. attempts to limit the use of ddt and other harmful pesticides. for example. are bound to fail in impoverished. hungry nations of the world unless we can provide adequate substitutes to control destruction of their food supplies or in some other way alleviate the hardships that might be caused. pollution is the special product of any society which places a high value on the production of goods and has the means to provide those goods in abundance. this means the developed nations of the world are the largest contributors to the pollution of the earths environment. as such. they have a special obligation to bring it under control and to assist the underdeveloped nations. as they increase their living standards. to guard against a corresponding increase in pollution. i believe this resolution recognizes this responsibility and i believe it would lend support to those of us who will represent the united states at the stockholm conference.
s proposal to protect the water supply of the florida everglades by -acquiring big cypress swamp. i have been informed that this legislation will be submitted in late january or early february. this is good news to those of us who for many years have been working to protect the unique ecology of the everglades and adjacent areas. as a member of the senate appropriations committee. i worked during the past few years to insure that premature commitment would be made for construction of a jetport in the big cypress swamp. i am happy that those efforts were successful and the jetport issue  appears to be laid to rest. at the same time. members of the interior and public works committees have taken an active role in defending the everglades from diversion of its vital water supply. positive contributions toward the protection of the everglades also have been made by both the nixon administration and the state of florida. during these years. however. the everglades have been living on borrowed time. there never has been any assurance that water for the western everglades would  be diverted. the high quality water needed by the natural environment of the everglades is provided by big cypress swamp. the quality of the water is maintained only because big cypress swamp has never been significantly invaded by manmade development. but to date this has been merely a matter of fortune. there is hing to assure protection of big cypress swamp from such development. indeed. this year the oil industry has been seeking to undertake exploratory drilling there. obviously. oil seepage. let alone a major spill. would doom much of the everglades. at the same time. projects to drain portions of big cypress swamp for development purposes have been proposed and one drainage canal has been partially excavated. these developments. if allowed to proceed. would doom the western everglades and extinguish the public values of the big cypress swamp. the administrations proposal will establish a big cypress national reserve. consisting of 547.000 acres of the swamp to be acquired by the federal government. senators on both sides of the aisle have already expressed an interest in legislation designed to accomplish this purpose. it is my hope that. with this bipartisan support for acquisition of the big cypress swamp. we will be able to act on legislation in this area early in the next congress.
. i ask unanimous consent that mr. mcintyre. mr. stevenson. mr. hathaway. and mr. leahy be added as cosponsors of s. 1336. the bill i introduced before the easter recess and which amends the clean air act to provide for research on the effect of chlorofluoromethane compounds. of which freon is one. on the environmental ozone layer.
. recent hearings by the house subcommittee on public health and the environment have brought out the fact that we may be destroying ozone in our atmosphere through the use of freon as a propellant in aerosal spray cans. ozone acts as a protective shield to life on this planet. and most scientists agree that life on the surface of the earth did  begin to evolve until the ozone layer had formed. as the ozone level decreases. the risk of skin cancer increases because there is  egh ozone to filter out the ultraviolet rays. if a 5percent decrease in the ozone level should occur. there might be a 10percent increase in the number of cases of skin cancer. it also seems obvious that there may be a relationship between increased ultraviolet radiation and the surface of the earth. and the crops growing on it. which we consume as food. to a layman reading the articles on ozone depletion that have appeared in scientific journals. one conclusion is immediately obvious. there is insufficient kledge  available on the subject to enable us to make sound judgments and decisions as to whether the ozone level is in fact decreasing and. if it is decreasing. whether this decrease is caused. in part. by the release of freon into the atmosphere. in our industrialized society. we use great quantities of freon. freon is used in closed systems. such as in refrigeration and airconditioning. we assume. but we do  k whether we are right. that this freon is never released into the atmosphere. but it is also used as a propellant in aerosol spray cans. where it is released directly into the atmosphere. the legislation i am sponsoring. and which has been introduced in the house by representative paul rogers. requires a report by the national academy of sciences on the potential effects of freon on the public health and the environment. recycling methods. methods of preventing the escape of freon into the atmosphere. and safe substitutes for freon. the report is required 1 year after enactment. a second report is required to be done by the national aeronautics and space administrationnasaalso within a year. on the nature and likelihood of potential effects of freon on public health and the environment. recommended standards to be applied on limiting freon emissions are required to be submitted to congress by nasa 3 months later. unless. after consideration of the reports. consultation with concerned federal agencies and scientific bodies. and public hearings. the administrator of the environmental protection agency finds that freon poses significant risk to the public health. safety. or the environment. the manufacture and sale of aerosol spray cans discharging freon into the air will be banned. the ban will go into effect 2 years following enactment of this legislation. or 1 year following completion of the reports. we have an obligation to ourselves and to the generations to follow to make sure that we are deliberately and kinglycreating an irreversible and potentially dangerous situation through our consumption habits today. that is why it is so important that this research be undertaken.
. he says. and i quote:  it is clear beyond question. however. that the urgent need for the utmost conservation of food will  cease with the completion of our emergency program. conservation will be an imperative necessity for a considerable period of time. and the statesmanlike act which follows that statement is that mr. luckman resigns and says his agency is going out of business and somehow or other we can look after conservation through other government departments. the committee on foreign affairs has tried to do something really constructive in this bill in response to the gentlemen who support our private ecoic system. and who say. "we want controls. we will look after ourselves. just give the great heart of the american people an opportunity and they will deliver like hing on earth that you ever saw." this section seeks to give the great heart of the american people such an opportunity. it rejects any implication. which i reject and i believe that the gentleman from wisconsin would reject. that the farmers of the country do  -want us to have a conservation program. but want us to bring about more and more and more the spirailing of food prices which threatens to destroy our salaries in the cities and to destroy people with fixed incomes.
will the gentleman. in the course of his very interesting presentation. deal with the subject of conservation and use of agricultural land resources to which $256.500 is provided from this point of view. i have read a good deal. including a very interesting editorial in the st. louis postdispatch. a paper in the farm area. about the fact that these conservation payments need  be made and the farmers will take care of their own problems if their income permits. and as their interests require.
. this is the largest single item in this bill. it is an item which is controversial even in the farm ranks themselves. as i understand it. the american farm bureau federation has suggested that the program should be reduced to $100.000.000. last year they suggested that it be reduced to $150.000.000. which was a $100.000.000 reduction. the question here is a very simple and a very clear one. we are asked to decide whether or  farmers will engage in conservation practices. the character of which has been so eloquently described by the gentlemen handling the bill on both sides of the aisle. whether or  they are paid the total amounts which are called for by this bill. my amendment does this: it takes the amount which the committee has allocated for direct payments to farmers for conservation practices. and cuts it by 50 percent. the amount. if members will refer to page 1262 of the report. as carried in the last column of the table on that page is $221.500.000. which the committee has reduced by $6.500.000. making a total of $215.000.000. which i have cut by 50 percent. i have added to that the amount set up here for the pma. county committee operating expense which is roughly $30.000.000. plus national and state office operating expenses. which is roughly $5.000.000. making this total of $142.410.000. i point out that cut is intended whatever in the personal services to be rendered by pma. county committee. or county agents. that cut is intended in the national or state direction of the program. but. the one thing that is cut is the 50 percent in the actual payments directly to farmers for conservation practices. i respectfully submit that where you have an argument like this one between one of the most influential of the farm organizations. and the views of our colleagues in the house here as to what farmers will do for themselves in conservation practices. that in a time when these gentlemen have been advocating great and stringent ecoy on the floor. the least we can do is to see if we cut the payments 50 percent rather than providing the full amount in the bill we are nevertheless. likely to get the very same kind of conservation practices that we want. i hope very much the house will decide this on the merits. perhaps city members who do  have farms in their districts can look objectively on what is appropriated in the farm situation. my colleagues who have farms in their districts are certainly entitled to. and do seek as they state to look objectively at the problems we have in the cities. i hope. therefore. that we will discuss this question on the merits. and i think the least we ought to do in deference to ecoy is to see if we can save $100.000.000 in round figures in these direct payments to farmers for conservation practices in their own selfinterest. which the farm bureau federation implies they will probably do anyhow.
. i will support this amendment. because we hear so much here about the conservation of resources and we hear so little about the conservation of human resources. the gentleman is trying to see that we utilize our human resources to the full in the areas where skilled workers and facilities are available because of the displacements of the defense mobilization. i am all for that.
i understand the gentleman is a member of the committee and can perhaps answer this fundamental question: i find from a questionnaire sent out by our colleague from iowa . who represents a farm district. that his farmers voted 67 percent to 32 percent for agricultural conservation program payments only on permanent soil conservation practices. and voted exactly the same way against agricultural conservation program payments as at the present time. which bears out the gentlemans argument. i would like to ask the gentleman how much we should allow instead of the $195 million. how much we should allow for agricultural conservation program payments on permanent conservation practices.
. earlier in the debate upon the civilrights bill. i discussed the birthplace. education. residence. and environment of the judges. marshals. and united states attorneys of the courts in the south. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks brief biographies of all those officials. which show that the overwhelming majority. with very few exceptions. were born in the south. educated in the south. and had complete life environment in the south. i shall refer to that subject in my address on the bill on monday. i wish to have the information available for the perusal of senators over the weekend.
i understand. but at least it is broken down on the basis of local responsibility. even in the conservationist area. title ii entitles the states themselves to use personnel for conservation within the states. i see reason why that is  a very mature. balanced approach. following the lines of the area redevelopment act and the manpower retraining act. in case the senator from pennsylvania has any worries. i intend to vote for the bill. however. i shall lend myself to the effort to strike title i. because i do  believe it provides an ecoical use of our resources.
ial appointees were messrs. laurance s. rockefeller (chairman). and samuel t. dana. dean emeritus of the university of michigan school of natural resources. mrs. marian s. dryfoos. of the new york times. and messrs. bernard l. orell. of the weyerhaeuser co.. joseph w. penfold. of the izaak walton league of america. m. frederik smith. of the prudential insurance co. of america. and chester s. wilson. former commissioner of conservation of the state of minnesota. i ask unanimous consent that i may have printed at this point in my remarks an editorial praising the sound conclusions of the commissions report which i feel have formed the basis for a great national future in the recreation and conservation field. of which this particular bill is a very important part.
. the 88th congress has frequently. of late. been called the conservation congress. this congress has established a very outstanding record in the conservation field which includes action on h.r. 3846. the land and water conservation fund bill. the wilderness bill. the fire island national seashore bill. and the tocks island national recreation area measure among many others. i ask that an editorial describing these accomplishments. from the new york worldtelegram of august 4. entitled "the conservation congress." be printed in the record.
. i join my colleague. the senator from new york l mr. keating] in approving the house bill. this is a landmark measure with respect to conservation legislation. affecting the state of new york and the atlantic area. it will be of importance to visitors from across the nation.  only have senator keating and i inspected the fire island seashore area. but he has spent a great deal of time there. i have lived there and have raised my children there. i can testify to the beauty of this area and to the critical importance of preserving it in its present condition for the benefit of the people of the united states. it is  being opened up with two bridges. one at each end. yet this national seashore will  be spoiled by commercial exploitation or by undue travel. it is a long and very narrow area. 32 miles long and about 2.000 feet wide at its widest point lying between the atlantic ocean and the bay behind it. it is one of the most magnificent strips of ocean front in the world and one of the last unspoiled stretches of natural beach left on the east coast. the need to protect this area is great. as stated in the outdoor recreation resources review commission submitted to the congress in 1962. "highest priority should be given to acquisition of areas located closest to major population centers and other areas that are immediately threatened." a great responsibility is  put upon the local summer residents of this area. they must cooperate with the department of the interior to keep this area in its natural beauty and isolation.  much money is provided in the bill. the federal government will  be able to do limitless things with respect to it. at the same time i am hopeful that local residents will assist in the progess of the national seashore. i am sure the residents of fire island. as i k them. will have that very much in mind. we look forward to this national seashore being for the use of the 30 million americans who live between boston and washington. it is fully available to all of them. as well as to what we hope will be many visitors from all over the united states. this is a place of such natural beauty that it ought to be as popular as any of our national parks. i k that the people who live on fire island are cognizant of this and will do their utmost to create a climate of hospitality for all who may visit this seashore. there are certain rare areas in the united states. i believe it is a privilege to serve in this body and be a party to the protection of such an area of beauty. which i k will survive me and my children. and their children after them. and be a blessing to millions of americans in the decades to come.
the senator from kentucky has stated that he has supported all these programs. he has been so preeminent in that support that i did  wish to add my own voice at the point when he was speaking. although it is a fact that i have. on this side of the aisle. also supported these programs. both in committee. when i was a member of the committee on banking and currency. and on the floor of the senate. i am kn. and proud to be kn. as a liberal. anxious to have my state. which pays the most taxes of all the states. support the wellbeing of the country. withstanding the fact that it is often said. in answer to my votes that new york pays $3 for every dollar that it gets back. as long as i am a member of the senate that will never be a factor in determining my vote. however. i appreciate and am ready to support conservation where conservation is appropriate in terms of these projects. when the president of the united states requests $250 million. and the amount is raised by the committee to $400 million. i expect eventually to hear facts stated that will support the increase. the senator from kentucky. a strong supporter of the bill. proposes to cut the increase by 50 percent. on the theory that it is necessary to have a good reason to raise the figure by $150 million. and that in the absence of such a good reason .the least that can be done is to cut the increase by onehalf. if one is to be a liberal. he must be a hardheaded liberal. therefore. i am glad to support the amendment of the senator from kentucky.
s assuming increased importance as. a annual leave on the basis of a beginning bill as introduced by the senator from source:of human food and we are filling employee and for the purposes of detexas . i will offer it. thiem withi residues of persistent pesti- termining seniority for a .reduction in i expect. sometime within the next week cides like ddt. . force. his ascs service is  considered. or 10 days. it is  necessary to report all- the there is. therefore. little incentive at the i state this merely for the information tpresent time for th employee to accept studies that have shown. the harmful peettm o hsepoe oacp of senators who may be reading the effects of ddt..-. the factsare cle r- a position in the department of agriyarborough bill and the statement with. we qhaie sucede in the d rs culture when he ks that the only difrelation to it. -oe s been in the fars ference insofar as employee benefits are since ddt has been on thle markit in concerned is that his salary may be repolluting our environment with it. we dcdadhssyaolhd prohibition of the sale or hav6 seriously polluted in 20 years an i believe that enactment of this legisshipment for use in the. environment which was unpolluted.. for lation would be of gredtassistance to the united states of the chem- billions of -years. " dat e ofgreat in to e ical compound kn as ddt. banning ddt alone is  the answer ment of experienced. qualified persons sintro- the pesticide problem. pesticides are  serving in the ascs county offices.
. on behalf of my colleague. senator kennedy of new york. and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide a payment of $40.000 to the village of highland falls. n.y.. toward the cost of a water filtration plant constructed in because of the location of the u.s. miltary academy at west point. which is adjacent to highland falls. the turbidity of the water supply in the area was increased. necessitating the construction of a water filtration plant 13 years ago. initially. the federal government conveyed land for the plant. and authorized the payment of $85.000 toward the project. total construction costs. however. were $250.000. considerably higher than had been anticipated. legislation to provide a larger federal contribution was first introduced in the 83d congress and has twice been passed by the house. i hope this year that congress will act to discharge this longstanding obligation to the people of highland falls.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record certain excerpts from a booklet entitled "threefourths of our land." published by the national association of soil and water conservation districts. league city. tex.
. i simply wish to say that we have had this argument before. i gather this flurry arose about the essentiality of this expenditure in terms of the priorities of our nation. those of us who are for it take the position that it ranks with defense expenditures. and. indeed. that it is more a measure of conservation than expenditures for sterile hardware. in terms of the effort to keep peace in the world. it takes great genius to fight. the question is how we are going to obtain a world in which we do  have to fight.
. in an effort to reinforce the necessity for cleaning up our nations water supplies. i direct the senates attention to this article and the list of cities with substandard drinking water systems and request that it be printed in the record.
 nixons stated policy set forth in executive order 11593. that: the federal government shall provide leadership in preserving. retaining. and maintaining the historic and cultural environment of the nation. that such a bill as this one should have received such prompt consideration and reporting by the senate interior committee and should  be brought to the floor of the senate. i urge that this inative and necessary bill be enacted into law.
i wish to associate myself with the remarks of my colleague from new york. i think he has put the situation exactly right. and i wish to express my appreciation to him for contending for principles and policies with respect to this legislation which would be equitable to the nation and equitable to our state. we of new york have constantly taken the position that water is a national resource and have shown it in many policies we have adopted. the senator has referred to the policy of the state. we would certainly hope that states which are  riparian states would take the same position that the needs standard is the basis for the country. we realize that political problems occasionally arise which may make it necessary to do less than the optimum. but i think the decision of the senator from maine (. i would have been deeply disappointed if the committee had gone to the 50percent figure which was originally discussed. i think it is encouraging that it has gone to the 75percent figure. we in new york have been just as vigorous in spending money for others when it will do us good but will do the nation good. as we have done in irrigation matters. dams. flood control. to take some of the more breadandbutter aspects of the matter here. we have a natural resourcewater. and when a conservation measure is made to apply the test to that. it is very refreshing to my mind and to the country as a whole.
. it is very dangerous to our country. and i rise to protest it. and will do my utmost. in company with other colleagues who feel as i do. like senator humphrey and. i am sure. senator jackson himself. to improve upon the very weak provisions of this bill regarding the seriousness of our conservation efforts.
the reason it arose is the pressure of creditors. creditors claims here are $1.600.000. and the pressure of creditors imposed by suits will force hud to foreclose. that will shut out the creditors probably. and shut out the local people and very seriously jeopardize huds own guarantee which is based upon the fact that. to whatever extent this can be operative. probably a more limited extent than the original program. that at least they can redeem the amount of their guarantee and perhaps do something as far as creditors are concerned. too. in short. it is a conservation proposition at this stage.
. i address this question to the manager of the bill and to the ranking miity member. i would like to discuss a question relating to the interrelationship between section 113(g) (1). the socalled attainment provision and section 110 (a) (3) (a) (iii). which deals with the. requirements of state implementation plans for those states which have air quality control regions which will  meet primary air quality standards. it is my understanding that the proposed section 110(a) (3) (a) of the clean air act amendments  under discussion requires that a state. in its revised implementation plan prepared in accordance with this act. identify air quality control regions in which a national primary ambient air quality standard will  be attained or maintained by july 1. 1979. and that the implementation plan include strategies for reducing emissions from existing and/or new sources in the region and achieving primary standards within 3 years of 1979. this section does  seem to require an offset for attainrpent of secondary standards. i ani concerned about an apparent inconsistency between this section and section 113(g) (1). the socalled attainment provision. my concern is that the language of section 113 may be interpreted as extending the coverage of the attainment provision for period 1979 beyond the public healthrelated primary standards to the public welfarerelated. secondary standards. if this interpretation were to be correct. i am concerned about the devastating impact it would have on the development of new and expansion of existing industries in those portions of our states in which secondary standards are  exceeded. i am specifically concerned about the possible impediments to construction of new. coalflred powerplants in such regions and conversion of existing plants. which construction and conversion is critical to our national energy policy. it is common kledge that whereas many air quality control regions in the united states have achieved or are well on the way toward achieving the primary standards. great difficulties are being encountered by many states. including new york. in achieving secondary standards. for example. in new york state many portions of air quality control regions currently exceed secondary standards. this is true for the states major urban centers such as the new york metropolitan region. the buffaloniagara area and the hudson valleyalbany area. is it a correct interpretation of section 113(g) (1) (1) that offset will be required of new or modified major emitting facilities constructed or modified after july 1. 1979. if the state has obtained approval of a revised implementation plan for pollutants which meet the primary standards but exceed secondary standards so long as the facility can comply with the approved revised state implementation plan.
. we have had a very difficult time with this situation. because it is a sudden emergency. it deserves federal attention. and this is a very appropriate opportunity to get that attention. if i could invoke the assistance of senator proxmire. if he would be good egh to hear me. i think we can help to work this out. i k the builtin problems are  to increase the amount provided by the budget and what the committee already has done in this situation. i realize that $15 million is available for grants to states for solid waste programs under section 4008(a) (1) of the resource conservation and recovery act. the easy way to do it would be to earmark $4 million of the $15 million as a maximum for these purposes. and our amendment calls for 50 percent matching. so there is question about that. i realize. also. that we have brother senators who are dependent upon the fact that the $15 million would be earmarked for this purpose. and neither they  we had the remotest idea in advance that this situation would face us in the niagara falls area. i realize. also. that there is a specific provision by which this kind of emergency can be met. and that relates to section 504 of the water pollution control act of 1976. i realize that that particular provisionto wit. section 504has  been funded and that the manager of the bill on the part of the majority does  feel that he wants to get into that funding in this particular time and in this particular amendment. also. we have reason to believei am sure the senator will rely on us to that effectthat if  more than 10 percent of the $15 million which is already appropriated as i have described. under the resource conservation and recovery act. is made available for the purpose of this problem in niagara falls. the senators who are deeply interested in the $15 million would have serious objection. we have estimates which indicate that that amount is inadequate for the purpose of dealing with the situation. therefore. we have proposed an amendment which will give the managers of the bill complete flexibility and confidence. and we k that when they take the amendment. as we hope they will. they will use their flexibility in order to negotiate a situation which will endeavor to help this particular problem without invading their principle that they do  want to exceed the budget. we k that. however. in order to give them that flexibility. it may be that when the matter is in conference our colleagues who have deep feelings about the $15 million will consent to perhaps some amount in addition to the $10 million which we have been discussing as capable of being made available for this particular problem. it may be that there will be some other source which can be tapped for the purpose. without interferring with these principles. because we understand all the hazards and the fact that we might come out of it with hing. we have tried to draft an amendment which would give the conferees complete flexibility. if we limit it to the $15 million they do  have the complete flexibility and we are under the problem of invading a fund. which they have negotiated and stipulated for. beyond the point where some of our colleagues are willing. it is for that reason that i hope very much the managers could consider the possibility of taking an amendment to conference which will give them the flexibility to try to help us. and that is all i ask for. we have tried to draft one. if we are  doing it effectively or efficiently. then we will do our utmost to meet their views. second. i understand that the proviso which we have written in here with respect to the limitation on the federal share. et cetera. may be subject to a point of order. if that point of order is made. i am prepared to submit an amendmentsenator moynihan will. who is the proponentto leave out that proviso. and we will state affirmatively that this is simply a matter of authority on the part of enabling the administrator of epa to provide assistance that we understand that he will  provide assistance unless he is satisfied that there be an equal sharing between the united states and the state. upon all those bases i hope very much the managers may consider simply taking this to conference as a means for trying to find a way to help in a situation in which they are obviously sympathetic but also have been seeking some way in which to work it out practically.
