. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleagues in introducing a civil rights bill which will go far toward insuring all americans the rights they have been so unjustly denied. in the most critical areas .of race relations today. this bill will prohibit businesses operating under state authority from denying their services to members of the public solely on the basis of race or color. furthermore. it will extend private and federal authority to bring civil suits to prevent further deprivations of constitutional rights. this will be a tremendous source of new strength for the efforts to eliminate discrimination in public accommodations and in public education. our nation is  free so long as we deny any american child equal education. equal opportunity. indeed. equal existence. as a member of the foreign affairs committee. i am particularly sensitive to the impact of the recent events in some parts of the nation. these events are grist for the communist mills which daily proclaim our inability to secure the promise of our constitution even to our own citizens. but it is  for international opinion .that we must pass this legislation. we must do it because it is right and because it is just. the time for deploring the growing tension in our race relations has long since passed. a firm expression of congressional conviction is needed more than ever before.
 does  reduce the totals of their budgets by more than 20 percent. he can cut as much as he wishes from a specific program. i can vote for this bill. it seems clear to me that there is a fundamental constitutional question involved in these blanket grants of authority over what is and has always been a congressional prerogative: the "power of the purse." in a time when the imbalance between the congress and the executive branch is growing wider. we in congress must  broaden the gap. i appeal to my colleagues to oppose this bill. and protect  only the constitution but also the rights of the congress.
. i fully support the rights of private property owners and am committed to upholding the integrity of the u.s. constitution which provides for just compensation when a federal action amounts to a taking. i believe the symms amendment to be unnecessary and fraught with potential problems. i hope my colleagues will look closely at its content.  just its title. and join me in voting to oppose it.
i will confess to the senator from california that i and my other cosponsoring colleagues consider this amendment redundant. we happen to feel that the press is well protected by the first amendment. however. let us face it. we have to do this because of the cranston amendment. the senator from california does hing to protect the freedom of the press. he gives an ecoic advantage to those in one part of industry. that is why this approach. to the extent that the senator might think it is redundant. i would concur. to the extent that he thinks it is loose. i do  happen to think that the rights guaranteed under the first amendment of the constitution are at all loose. i think the senator is making them loose in his amendment. i would hope that the senate again today would realize the weakness of the position of the senator from california. the senator from th carolina and others who have cosponsored the amendment. they would  be in here today with this modified. lesser version unless there was weakness in their argument. this is  a constitutionstrengthening amendment. it has to do with excepting a particular group of people from a national sacrifice in which we are all engaged in the united states. i do  think it is fair. i think it is wrong. i think the american people will be able to see it for what it is. 
. to digress briefly. i do  k how many more occasions i will have to speak of my admiration for the distinguished senator from th carolina. an admiration that has grown during my years here in the senate. as i have seen him devote his energies to a piece of paper that. very frankly. has almost been forgotten. specifically. the constitution of the united states. you k. there is greatness in this land that does  spring from that doculnent. that which is good. tangibly good. that we see around us. is the manifestation of its great concepts and its great ideals. at a time when so many people had frgotter those concepts and ideals. it was the senator from th carolina who gave them legislative meaning and. indeed. very practical meaning. to the people of this country. so. regardless of our respective po3itions on any amendments that i have to offer to this bill. the fact is that i want to express  my humble admiration for senator ervins great contribution to this nation. at a time when such was very specifically called for. he was the only one. at a certain time. to stand up and be counted. i am today offering an amendment to the federal privacy board act to require the full disclosure of net worth by highranking officials in the executive and congressional branches of government. this amendment is the same as the net worth disclosure bill. s. 4059. which i originally introduced before the senate i ask unanimous consent that the name of the distinguished senator from oklahoma be added as a cosponsor of the amendment.
. i believe that any partisan argument on this matter is ridiculously out of place when presented to a nation that uses entirely different standards today than was the case years ago. years ago this matter could have been resolved in a partisan fashion and. really ody would care. or probably better still. ody would understand. but that is  the case today. i think the american people expect us to apply standards of commonsense. of fairness. of legality. of logic. of relevance. these are what count. clearly. the systems that we have used in the past in a matter such as this do  meet those standards. i do  mean to demean what it is we have done in the past relative to resolving elections disputes. but this is a different day. and whereas these matters used to be decided behind closed doors and by the fewest possible number of people. today they are out in the open with the greatest number participating. if. indeed. we have changed the entire process in this country as to participation when it comes to election. why should we  change it for ourselves. i am  here engaging in a constitutional debate saying we do  have the right to judge the qualifications of our members. what i am saying is that the decisions by a rules committee. or the decisions we are being asked to render here today. just are  the best way to handle the matter. i stand with the chairman in upholding our constitutional rights relative to determining the qualifications of our members. where we depart is on how that is best done in this case. and that is the entire thrust of my argument. the 17th amendment of the constitution of the united states is there for very much the same reasons that i am arguing today. it used to be that state legislatures elected the u.s. senators and then somebody came up with the idea that it would best serve the republic to have the people. all of the people. make that choice. so the 17th amendment was enacted. and from the decision being made by a few it is  made by many. and we are better off because of it. point  2 is that some have said that the republicans in this matter intend to filibuster it. hing could be farther from the truth. yes. i do believe it is important that each one of these points be gone over very carefully because. as the chairman has stated. and as i would agree. we are in a quasijudicial proceeding. it is  something that can be thrown out. everybody raise their hands and go home. rather. we have to hear the evidence. i would  lend myself. and i have  talked to one of my colleagues on this side of the aisle that would lend himself to a filibuster on this matter. we have always in the past used facetiously the term "an educating process" when talking about a filibuster. indeed. this is an educating process here. these are highly complex matters. it is  sufficient that we just explain them to ourselves or we k what is going on. rather. on this historical occasion it is important that the people of the country understand what is involved. point  3 the matter of precedet has been referred to. this is aher reason why it is important that  just we ourselves. but the entire country. understand what is involved. the point is made that precedent is being set. and it is very bad precedent. i went into this particular matter at the time i presented the vacancy amendment 6 months ago.
i am going to get to the evidence in a minute. the fact is that article i. section 5. which the distinguished senator from montana refers to. says: each house shall be the judge of the elections. returns. aud qualifications of its own members. . i have to ask a rhetorical question of the distinguished senator from montana. where does article i. section 5. say that each house shall be the judge of the elections. returns. and qualifications of its own members. and shall make such determination by referring it to a rules committee or by votes on the sefiate floor. it says hing. it is silent. what i am saying to the7 distinguished senator from montana is that the cofistitution leaves open the question of how each house shall do this. it could very well be a rules committee determination is the best way. or on the senate floor. for myself. feeling politics has very much opened up in these things. they do  take place behind closed doors and in the senate chamber any more. i feel the best determination can be made by the people of new hampshire themselves. this is the open. clean way. and  wheel and deal in the cloakroom or in the rules committee or on the senate floor. i happen to be a great admirer of the distinguished majority leader. i do  think anybody has more courage than he. but on the issue of the constitution. he is just plain wrong. and trying to go ahead and raise a false alarm. which is  the case at all. the constitution provides that we shall be the judge of the qualifications of our own members. it does  say how we do it. but it has been suggested . almost 6 months. that a far better determination can be made by the people of new hampshire. that is a far better mechanism to use than sitting here and negotiating out what are the rights of the people of new hampshire. point two is to the issues. unfortunately. for the distinguished senator from montana. the last time we had the issues discussed. there was a rollover right here in the well of the senate chamber and the distinguished senator from montana will remember the issues had been decided a minute or so before the rollcall in favor of the position taken by the miity side. and with 1 or 2 minutes to go on that vote there was a great deal of scurrying around in the well of the chamber here.
i do  k the tenets of all the religious faiths in this country. i do  really care to k them all. i do k there are those that find abortion a matter of murder. of being against that which they believe in. who they are. i do  k and i do  care to k with specificity. i have only one guideline to what it is i talk about and what i do on the floorthe constitution of the united states.
i repeat i would resume my comments on this amendment--busing is  the issue at all. civil rights is. constitutional rights are. these are the issues. but i think the importance that when the headlines get written. it is . a question of who stood up for busing. but who stood up for the constitution of the united states. who stood up for the civil rights of 250 millionand that is all of usamericans. that is what this is all about. because if this legislation passes and you take the principle and apply it -to any other fact situation. any time we do  like directions from that third part of our government. the judicial process. then we will just give them the political orders from the floor of the u.s. senate. and that is  good egh for a government of laws. does the senator from maryland have a question.
there may be a political end to all of this. and i am sure that is why we are here spending the time. it is  popular for anybody to stand up here and defend the proposition called busing. but i think we do have a great obligation. a stated by the state supreme court justices. in the sense of our oath of office to uphold the constitution of the united states. that is the issue before the u.s. senate. i gathered in the dialog between the distinguished senator from michigan and the distinguished senator from louisiana . that the senator asked what should we do. we have always had it in t ir power as a senate to do anything at all in terms of righting the wrongs brought about by discrimination. what are we going to do. we make the laws. we control the money. we set the policy. the fact remains that we have  done any of these things so the matter goes to the supreme court. the supreme court acts. and we do  like what they do. so we want to nullify that. if we nullify that. we will sit right back and continue to do hing. but the constitution. you see. does  allow you to do hing. it says that there shall be equal opportunity and that we all have equal rights. if those rights are being denied. you just can sit back and do hing. that is the final upshot of what is being done here. to do hing. if somebody is murdered on the street. do you do hing. if somebody is raped. do you do hing. what. the destruction of the constitution because it is a little more sophisticated. a little more difficult to understand. that makes its destruction something less than the destruction of human life.  at all. what gives value to life are the principles espoused in the constitution and when they go. you do  sit back and do hing. the reason why this has to be fought on the floor of the u.s. senate is so that we can complain when the courts take action in the absence of our action. it is very easy to pass the buck. to let the president do it. we all k the president is  going to do anything in this area. what appalls me is  that he believes in policies that are different from my own beliefs. but he certainly has an obligation by the powers of his office. he can exercise through the powers of the executive. or he can create through the powers of the executive. those policies which tend to back off and make a full commitment to civil rights. that is his privilege. it is the privilege of every member on the floor. but i can assure each one of my colleagues that if anybody tries to erode the powers of the u.s. senate there would be a hue and a cry and we would say. "" this president is quite satisfied to let part of his office float out to sea. that should be his bother and concern.  mine. but it is going to come to pass that there will be other men and women sitting in his chair. in his office. i want to make sure that they have every bit of power that was given to him by his predecessor. because these powers. taken in conjunction with each other. the legislative branch. the executive branch and the judicial branch. are what give a guarantee. the fullest guarantee. to the rights of all americans. we are  safe from all power in any one of those branches. and sometimes two of them fail us. but never have three of them failed us. that is the issue before us. yet this amendment attacks two of those branches. both the executive in limiting what it is the justice department can do. and the judicial in the sense of what the courts in this nation can do. really. is there any american who wants to leave their entire fate and all of their rights in the hands of the senate and the house of representatives of the united states of america. we are very good as to polls and very good as to trying to articulate and manifest the tempers of the times. really. i think history shows us we are a little short on that area called courage. that. rore than anything else. is needed in defense of the constitution of the united states. because that is the toughest document you can possibly imagine insofar as what it demands of each one of us and the nation.  i do  want my fate left in the hands of the senate of the united states and the house of representatives. because i realize they might one day fall short. as they have more often than . i want to make sure that i have a second arrow in my quiver. the executive branch. and even a third. the judicial branch. indeed. when it comes to tough decisions. more often than  history shows it has been the judicial branch that has stepped in on behalf of all of us and the rights that are ours under the constitution of the united states. to leave the constitutional arguments that i have tried to put forth this aftern. let us for 1 minute try to bring our judgment of busing back into the framework of the times when it was ordered and the times that have transpired since. brown against the board of education was a 1954 case. is there anybody who will deny the dramatic change that has taken place in education in the past 28 years. that is the bottom line. do you think that is the same system out there. do you think the same people are getting educated. do you think the same people have the opportunity today they had in 1954. way. there are thousands of americans that have opportunities available to them because of our great public education system and the opportunities presented therein and the lack of discrimination thereinthousands. hundreds of thousands. that could look upon their future back in 1954 as consisting of hing more than the most menial and physical of tasks. that is the bottom line. 
there might be a surfeit of opinion. but there certainly is  surfeit of fact as established by the senate. let me say this: if busing is a leech on the body politic. then discrimination and racism are the dracula. if you will. on both the constitution and the body politic.
. in responseand i will try to be briefto the distinguished majority leader. i have stated all along that. in my opionion. the essence of this debate is the circumvention of the constitution of the united states. last night. this body. in the tradition of the main issue. chose to circumvent the rules of the senate. to go ahead and  grant the right to a roll call vote. to my way of thinking. might have been proper in terms of the ultimate objective and in terms of expediency but certainly did  conform to the traditions and procedures we have established for ourselves in this body. i supported my southern brethren several years back in their resistence to changes in rule xxii because i felt it was important to protect the rights of the miity. they were the miity. i am the miity right . the rules call for 100 hours of debate. after cloture is invoked.  just as my friends on the issue would like to have a game played on the field without referees. that is. courts. obviously the leadership here on the floor of the senate  takes rule xxii .that we voted as a procedure and throws it out the window. and we are  playing under rules. i do  see where that encourages accommodation and compromise. so. even though again i repeat i k i am in the miity on the issue and ultimately must lose. at least i will do so in an hoable way.
. the senate  has before it s. 2719. which would provide settlement of certain claims of the mashantucket pequot indian tribe of connecticut. and which would establish federal recognition of the tribe. it is with pleasure that i bring this measure to the senate floor. as my colleagues are aware. the senate has spent a great deal of time this session considering the essential concept of this bill. which is the guarantee that the rights of miities must be protected under the constitution. the majority often rules in the democratic process. but our constitution guarantees miities access to due process and the right to fair and equal consideration in any legal claims. this bill addresses that issue for the mashantucket pequots. it is a bill motivated by the wish to provide a fair settlement to all involved parties. and i believe that it accomplishes that aim. s. 2719 has the unanimous support of the connecticut delegation. the connecticut state government. the pequot tribe and the affected property owners. the connecticut delegation is proud of this bill which represents the stateoftheart in indian land claims settlement legislation. we believe that it could be a precedent for connecticut in future cases of this nature. i urge my colleagues to support s. 2719.
let us put it out there for all to vote on. and let us have them held accountable. that is why i want to make the point that the courage in this matter is with those who vote to table this amendment. they are  willing just to have an academic exercise. they understand the message it sends to the rest of the nation. regardless of the format. and the format. as i say. is a vacuous exercise. never meant to become law. but to put the screws to people on a very passionate issue. as i say. the courage belongs with those who stand up for the constitution of the united states. there are these three separate but equal branches of government. and they are our final guarantorany one. two. or all threeof all the rights we have -as american citizens. if this amendment is adopted. you own just a little bit less in terms of those rights. when i took the oath of office when i came to the u.s. senate. it was to make sure that whatever i left was just as great. just as capable of realization of all the ideals we believe in.  something less because the tempers of the times made it politically popular to stamp on that document. you k what is going to happen. if this amendment is tabled it will be withdrawn and it will  be law. and if it is  withdrawn there are those of us who are going to stand up here and talk for 6 and 9 months. and it will  become law. so i would hope that.  1. it is tabled. but when the rollcall is read as a matter of the record the badge of courage attaches to those who opposed the amendment of the senator from th carolina. they indeed are true patriots i suggest the absence of aquorum.
a "simple majority" is quite different from a "constitutional majority." usually when the term "majority" is used without further qualification. the person using it means a simple majority. thus. when the adjectives "barest" and "slimmest" are used to describe a minimal senate majority. the writer properly can have reference to more than 26 senators the 50 required by our modest proposal. it has also been pointed out frequently that the senate was deliberately designed as a frank check on unqualified majority rule. certainly the senate was frankly designed to act as a check on the kind of majority rule which would have resulted if the general government had consisted of only one house. or even two houses. the members of which were apportioned among the states solely on the basis of population. the smallby populationstates wanted protection from complete domination by the large states. and secured it by the great compromise. under which the senate was to consist of two senators from each state. so far as population is concerned. this was a frank majority provision. but in 1789 ody dreamed of providing that the senate itself was to act as a parliamentary body other than on the basis of simple majority rule. except in the specific situations set forth in the constitution. such as the twothirds vote required in passing vetoed bills. and in proposing constitutional amendment to the states. and except for the proviso that a majority of the whole body is necessary to constitute a quorum to do business. to read into the checks against total majority rule of the people of the nation taken as a whole. the ion that the senate itself is to act on some basis other than simple majority rule finds warrant in history. surely. one will deny that the constitution requires only a simple majority of senators26 could do itvoting for a bill to pass it.  will anyone deny that the senate has . and has always had. majority rule in voting on legislation. under the constitution it is perfectly clear that even a simple majority of senatorseven 26could close debate if the senate made such a rule. i submit that our proposal. which would require at least 50 senators voting for cloture. is most modest and reasonable. we do  mean to change the constitutional structure. we mean to implement it. and if the objection is to majority rule in the senate. why  say so and let us debate the wisdom of a constitutional amendment. let us  hide behind the free debate myth if we want to have a further check on majority rule in senate proceedings. let us openly espouse calhouns theory of concurrent majorities. and openly provide that bill shall pass unless twothirds of those present vote affirmatively. finally. we are charged with blaming the filibuster for inability to enact civil rights legislation. we do. indeed. we k from bitter experience the difficulties and frustrations inherent in securing legislation to assure their constitutional rights to a miity. true. we finally achieved passage of a civil rights actof a sortlast yearthe first such legislation in nearly 75 years. but we are still far from assuring effective protection of the constitutional rights of all our citizens. this is the real heart of the objection to our proposal. and the objection that has been made to similar proposals in the senate. and it goes back to a time long before i was a member of this great body. 
. that we can lightly pass over this question because there may be some difficulty in getting a vote under the rules of the senate. under its procedures. or under its practices. and if we do so upon this relatively modest measure. in circumstances in which pressing for very much stronger legislation has been deferred so there could be a test of the sentiment of the senate upon the simplest kind of legislation. then i think the country will rightly. in its own good time. come to judge this congress and the members of the senate in this session the way we should be judged. there has been much talk. there have been many speeches made. there has been much energy expended. great talent. skill. considerable learning. and indefatigable diligence have been shown on the part of those who oppose this measure. for myself. i can only say that i wish all that diligence. learning. energy. and devotion had been expended in a better cause than that of defending a system which has involved deep injustice for american citizens. and which we can look upon with equanimity. much concern has been expressed. and rightly so. of course. for the dignity of this body. for the constitutional rights of citizens of the united states. and for the majesty of the states in their sovereign character. all with the suggestion that this legislation. or that the adoption of a cloture rule to cut off debate and bring this matter to a vote in the senate. would in some way be endangering this great institution. its traditions. and democracy in this country. but. as the miity leader pointed out so well yesterday in his concluding remarks. democracy is in danger in this country only if injustice is permitted to go unrebuked and unrestrained. and to suggest that the modest action of the sort provided for by this bill. to put an end to some of those injustices. would in some strange way impair the dignity of this body or the sovereignty of our states. or of democracy itself. is ironic indeed. i suggest it is time to cut through all these shibboleths and to see the matter as it really isthat the rights of the senate and of senators. of the institution to which we belong. our federal system. and all the rest. exist  for themselves or for us. but are in existence only for the preservation of democracy and decency in this great land of ours. and that anyone who attempts to make us here in the senate or in the country or the world think otherwise is misusing the constitution of the united states and all the instruments that exist under it. i say again. we will  let this matter rest with a sham vote on monday. matter what the outcome. we will  permit this travesty upon justice. upon constitutional processes. to exist. or to go into effect. without the kind of protest that will be heard. i hope. and quickly heard. beyond the boundaries of this chamber. too long this injustice has existed. it is incredible that it should exist in the united states of america. in any part of this country. and to suggest that our laws and our constitution and the dignity of this body and the traditions of it and the preservation of democracy in some fashion require the perpetuation of this dastardly injustice is. i suggest. to misunderstand the whole meaning of american life.
. i merely wish to state that in  making a point of order against the procedure adopted by the chair. it should be made clear that the senate rule with respect to limitation of debate. namely. rule xxi. itself is  being acceded to. and withstanding the fact that the rules are  being followed. the point will be made that the rules for closing debate on the question of whether this resolution will be considered are rules which the chair will have to applyso we shall contendunder the constitution of the united states.  under the rules of the senate. and we do  consider ourselves prejudiced by the procedure  being pursued. because it does  inhibit the pursuance of the fundamental rights of the majority to change the rules. uninhibited by rule xxii.
 at the moment i always enjoy discussing questions with the distinguished senator from th carolina. the federal government devotes large amounts of money to aid the state of mississippi. we who see this question as we do have a right to protest the expenditure of money by the state of mississippi for purposes of this character which. in our view. tend to nullify the constitution. it seems to me that when we speak of sovereignty. we speak of the sovereignty of a state within the area in which it is sovereign. it can use its sovereignty to nullify the rights of citizens of the united states under the constitution of the united states. it seems to me to be most elementary that what is being contended for affirmatively by the opponents of this bill is discrimination. the most that any. opponent of the bill could say is that we should  enact a federal law. but it is almost inconceivable that one could contend affirmatively for discrimination on the basis of color in any state. and justify the use of federal money on that ground.
the only point i am trying to establish hereand i did  mean to interrupt the senators speech for this longwas that there are certain rights of the people. whether they are children or grownups. which arise under the constitution and laws of the united states. and they are just as effective and binding within any state as are the laws of that state. therefore. one can say. "well. this is the way our state believes it should be." that might be an argument which the distinguished senator would make to dissuade us from enacting the bill. but i do  think it can be put on any constitutional or moral ground. or on the ground of governmental. policy. because what we are trying to do we are. trying to do under the constitution. which by its very terms is paramount to the laws of the individual state. i think the differentiation between a citizen as a citizen of the state and as a citizen of the united states is something which apparently senators from states which feel strongly about the racial question find extremely difficult to accept. but i do  see how it can be iged.
 feelsand there are reports. we understand. that he does so feelthat additional laws are required because the situation is so serious. the additional laws should be asked for. and should be asked for promptly. on the highest priority. the leading question in this country remains. as it has for some time. whether we have made good the guarantees of the constitution to the millions of americans who are negroes. we should seek gratitude or special thanks in respect to our strong interest in this matter. because for too long those rights have been frustrated. if manmade problems stand in the way. problems either of staff or money or enforcement authority or of the necessary law. there is a way to repair that situation and repair it promptly. accordingly. i urge upon the attorney general. whose ination has  been confirmed. that he take this action without a moments delay because. in my judgment. a subject of the highest priority and responsibility is before us.
. i thank the senator. i consider the senator from new jersey to be one of the best constitutional lawyers in congress. i value emously his support. this is but the opening gun. in many cases there has been an unwitting overshooting of the target and this is a very critical matter and involves the constitution and the bill of rights itself. it is far more critical than many of the legislatures realize. i repeat: this may be a wideopen convention. as a matter of law. if it is called. therefore. it could be a runaway convention. so the country had better ponder it very carefully. as it is a first. and it can be an extremely dangerous and damaging one.
does the submission of the resolution represent the end of the phase of the organization of the senate. and the beginning of the business of the senate. i ask that question because it is the understanding of the senator from michigan and myself. as well as other senators. that the rights of senators who desire to seek a change in rule xxii under the constitution of the united states will be preserved. withstanding these proceedings. i would greatly appreciate. therefore. the appropriate information from the chair.
which constitution protects the rights of individual americans. and the law of the land is. according to the way in which we develop the law. that until there is a constitutional amendment or some change. every child shall have an opportunity for an equal education-
. the concerns here have always been rooted in the constitution. we must be against barbarous punishment. and everything the constitution sets outrespect for courts. law. and the rights of any defendant support this i would be less than true to my oath if i were to try to pass on a matter of this importance in 1 hour or 2 hours of debate and without any understanding of its real consequences or in light of the law and the circumstances. for those reasons. and in the interest of sheer prudence and humanity the senate will send this matter to the committee on the judiciary with instructions.
i thoroughly agree with my colleague. except that i point out that the words should be "threatening to usurp" because under the constitution of the united states i do  believe we can bind any future senate. the foregoing debate. quoted from the record of january 12. 1959. clarifies our intent. confirmed by 16 years of senate action on this matter. as to the effect of rules purporting to bind future congresses on the right of members to raise constitutional arguments against such restrictions. in adopting a new rule xxii todaya rule which. as i said in 1959. "threatens to usurp" the rights of future congressesi want to make it clear that i have the right. as i did in 1959. to argue this question on constitutional grounds in the 95th congress. finally. . he was. in every sense of the word-
