. first i should like to express my appreciation and what i feel is the countrys appreciation for the service upon this commission of the senator from massachusetts . on the republican side. and the senator from oklahoma on the democratic side. second. to show how other senators and i have reacted to the report. it is interesting that withstanding our deep involvement it. the very subject with which the commission dealt. we have stood aside to permit senator brooke to develop this legislative approach. and to fill in what he considered to be interstices left by the commissions report. in the group of bills which needed to be introduced to implement what ought to be done. according to the commissions recommendations. that stage is  completed. i express the appreciation of many senators and of the country to the distinguished senator from massachusetts for the great job he did. capped  by his introduction of the legislation he considers necessary to implement the commissions work. i do think it needs to be said and i have joined with the senator in cosponsoring a certain number of these measures and hope that we can whip certain other bills into shape so that i may stand shoulder to shoulder with the senator on all matters incorporated in his legislative ideasand it needs to be emphasized. especially as the senator from massachusetts speaks as a member of the commission and has introduced the legislation based upon that experience. that what he has said and what i have said is critically important to the understanding of the american people. if we pass these five measures today. we would  be implementing the report of the commission on civil disorders. massive approval is required. with respect to the problems of the cities. to go into the areas of manpower and manpower training and perhaps into the areas of law enforcement and corporate investment in terms of dollars and cents in the way of small entrepreneurship. housing construction. education. and a good many other fields which the senator from massachusetts has touched upon. but which do  represent. as he has said. the total package. the senator does  call his legislation a package. and he is quite right. however. there is a package which congress and the country must realize will cost in the multimilliondollar area that is necessary to materially affect this consideration and consummate the work which this commission. in my judgment. has so historically inaugurated. i deeply appreciate recognition of this fact and pledge as one senator to stand shoulder to shoulder with the senator from massachusetts and others in both parties to try to get this legislation enacted as we were able to get the 1968 civil rights act enacted. through monumental labor in which the senator from massachusetts joined. time is of the essence. the situation in the country with respect to public order can be materially affected by what we do between  and june. i hope very much that we all realize that this situation can get away from usdangerous as it is. and it is by means over. however. we can affect the situation materially and constructively and hopefully by putting the great bulk of people. including negroes. on the side of public order and tranquillity by having the public. joined by the private enterprise system. see that justice is done. i hope very much that all senators. in the spirit of which the senator from massachusetts has spoken so eloquently. will have that very clearly in mind as we face the days ahead and realize what needs to be done. that time is of the essence. that we can affect the situation. and that we do  have to face the stern decrees of grave jeopardy to public order and tranquillity which so many millions in the country contemplate with great concern. and quite justifiably.
