. i am pleased to introduce together with senator kennedy a bill to preserve and protect the beautiful. historic nantucket sound islands. this bill is the product of years of effort to arrive at a means of protecting these lovely islands in a manner consistent with the rights of local citizens to govern themselves. senator kennedy. congressman gerry studds. and : have worked very closely with gov. francis sargent. the local state representatives and. most importantly. the island residents in devising legislation which balances the desires of island residents for local control with the evident need of state and federal participation. gover sargent and state representative terrance mccarthy played a particularly significant role with the introduction of a landuse planning act for the island of marthas vineyard. this  only opened the door for more meaningful citizen participation in the planning of the islands future. but it became the catalyst for the previously elusive unique partnership under which the island residents could best pursue the preservation and protection of their island. i am hopeful that similar state legislation will be considered for nantucket and the elizabeth islands. the bill we introduce today reflects this unique partnership between the federal. state. and local governments. its basic intent is to afford islanders the needed tools with which to develop and implement a sound planning and preservation program. in contrast to previous legislative efforts. major responsibility in both the development and the implementation of these programs lie with the local citizenry. in short. this bill help islanders help themselves. clearly then this bill is  so much a remedy as it is a challenge. and it is a challenge to which i am confident the people of marthas vineyard. nantucket. and the elizabeth islands will rise. it is because of their endless hours of effort that senator kennedy and i can introduce this bill today and it will be because of their dedication and enthusiasm that this bill will achieve its goal. in the weeks and months ahead. we expect further comments on this bill as we continue our efforts to bring forth the best possible legislation. and we will be working closely with the local selectmen and planning boards in assuring citizen input into the important formulation of the classification maps. but i believe the bill we are introducing today sets forth the format by which we can best insure the nantucket sound islands preservation and protection from the unchecked development which threatens so many of our nations scenic and historic places. i look forward to its early enactment. by mr. church (by request):
 you. i did  attribute it to you. rich women can do so. because they do have the money to pay. you k this is unfair. that there is inequity in this country and unfairness in this country. i pray to god we will never accept that as a national policy. we have always got to strive for equality. fairness. and equity in this country. and i can see how we can discriminate against the poor. that is what the distinguished senator from new york is saying. we are  stopping abortions by this bill. if we want to do that. do it someplace else. al we are saying by this bill is that women who are raped. children who have been violated by incest. or if it is medically necessary. can get an abortion if they are too poor to pay for it. we are saying to you we hope the senate will stand firm in its position. and reject the house position.
. i welcome. at long last. some direct line of action by which the majesty and power of the united states will be exercised to give to all its citizens what everyone has agreed. time and time again. is. of all the rights provided by the constitution. the most unquestioned and most elementarythe right to vote. if this bill does  accomplish that purpose. i feel certain that i shall be joined by many other senatorsi hope a majority. in standing on the floor of the senate and proposing perhaps aher law. until our goal is achieved. but do it we will. and do it we must. if the motto of the united states is "in god we trust." which means that in gods morality we trust. is really true. and we really believe in it. we will implement it with our votes. our strength. our voices. and our resources
. this year the soviet union is marking the 50th anniversary of the russian revolution and commemorating a half century of communist rule. but today in the u.s.s.r. there remains a substantial group of people being denied even fundamental religious and cultural rights guaranteed to them by soviet lawthe 3 million jews of that nation who comprise the second largest jewish community in the world. although the soviet union is an atheistic country. soviet law does provide for those who would observe their religious faith. however. unlike other faiths in the u.s.s.r.. the jews can publish devotional literature. manufacture religious articles such as prayer shawls. and can have official contacts with their coreligionists abroad. other religious groups may have a central or coordinating structure. the jews are denied this. the discriminatory treatment by the soviet union of its jewish citizens in contrast to the equality accorded them in other communist countries in eastern europe. according to reports by the world jewish congress. the 110.000 jews in rumania. the 80.000 jews in hungary. the 18.000 jews in czechoslovakia. and the 6.500 jews in yugoslavia receive substantially the same treatment as do members of other religious faiths. this equality of treatment is what we ask of the soviet union. as the soviets commemorate the 50th anniversary of communist rule we are reminded of the words from leviticus which describe how. in ancient times. during the jubilee fiftieth year the enslaved were freed and. as is written on our liberty bell. liberty was proclaimed throughout the land. we hope that the soviets. too. might ho this ancient injunction: and ye shall hallow the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. it shall be a jubilee unto you. and ye shall return every man unto his possession and ye shall return every man unto his family.
