madam president. i wish to address myself today for a little while to a massive problem in respect of the civil rights crisis which in my opinion seriously endangers the country. that is the problem of federal aid to state programs which are themselves segregated or in which there is discrimination. this is a tragic aspect of the civil rights crisis. there are many things which represent injustice to our negro citizens. which they consider intolerable and which they will tolerate more. of all of themif we can assess them qualitativelyperhaps the most intolerable is the spending by the federal government. dedicated under the constitution to equality of citizenship and required to enforce guarantees of u.s. citizenship within the states. of hundreds of millions of dollars millions.  tens of millions. but hundreds of millions of dollarscollected from all citizens regardless of race in aid of programs carried on by states under conditions of racial segregation and discrimination. this practice is rife almost throughout the federal establishment. and we are almost at the beginning of trying to come abreast of it. i believe one can deeply understand why people are angry when their tax moneys are abused in this fashion. withstanding the declarations of presidents roosevelt. truman. eisenhower. and kennedy. and when a good deal of such discrimination persists in other cases which are only  beginning to be dealt with. i. together with the senator from michigan . circularized the federal government departments in which anything like this has been going on. and we have gathered a considerable body of replies from the departments as to what the present situation is. the situation represents such a very interesting state of facts that i decided. when the senate was  doing any business. to take the necessary time to spread it upon the record. and to analyze it for the senate and for the people of the country. i shall state my objective first. because that is the loyal thing to do. my objective is to demonstrate that we need  wait for legislation.  even for the presidents request for discretionary authority to cut off aid to state programs in which discrimination or segregation is being practiced. if we take the administration at its own word. based upon the administrations own statement of its powers. there are areas in which the administration can move  without waiting for congress to act. this is critically important. because all of us in good conscience are searching for what can be done . we all k that we are in for a hot session. a long session. a hard fight. and that it will take time. summertime is upon us. many people. including myself. are deeply concerned by what is encompassed within the word "demonstrations." when it is used in respect to this grave national crisis. to meet. to speak. to parade. and to agitate for ones point of view is one thing. however. when irritations or unreasonableness. or failure to enforce the law. which we recently saw in birmingham and other places. or the use of police force create a condition which breeds violence. "demonstrations" can become something very serious for america. we are all searching for ways in which hoable changes. urgently required for many decades. can be made without waiting for new law. as important as new law also is. this is the point of view that i shall analyze. in order to show what can be done . that is the constant cry of the negro community. this demonstrates the lines of activity  opened up. which may be accelerated in terms of the timing of the relief which can be given. therefore. i speak in those terms. madam president. the greatest irony in the current crisis over civil rights which is sweeping the nation is the fact that. withstanding all the efforts of the federal government to obtain compliance with the constitution by many southern state and municipal governments. the federal government itself continues in myriad silent ways to subsidize programs* which tolerate racial segregation and discrimination. every program administered by the federal government in southern states is. potentially at least. open to this question. in two such programs. the congress itself has embedded the  discredited separatebutequal doctrine into statutory law: both the morrill land grant college act and the hillburton hospital construction act even today contain such language in clear violation of the 14th amendment. one of the failures of congress in the civil rights field is the failure to undo these anachronisms. in all the other programs. the congress has failed specifically to prohibit such use of federal funds. which are obtained from taxation upon all regardless of color or race. etheless. the federal government is  powerless to prevent such flagrant misuse of the public moneys. the president recognized this in his message to the congress early this month on civil rights by calling special attention to such use of public funds and the efforts which the executive branch has made "to fulfill its responsibilities by banning discrimination in federally financed housing. in ndea and nsf institutes. in federally affected employment. in the army and air force reserve. in the training of civilian defense workers and in all federally owned and leased facilities." but these are only a beginning. both because there are still vast areas  mentioned and because enforcement efforts must follow promulgation of dry rules. the president recognized this by  leaving the matter at that point. however. instead of detailing what further areas he believed the executive branch  has authority to deal with. he indicated that under many statutes the power of the administrator to withhold funds if discrimination were  ended "is at best questionable." for this reason he called for the passage of a single comprehensive provision making it clear that the federal government is  required to furnish financial assistance to any program or activity in which racial discrimination occurs. one provision of the legislation since sent by the administration to the congress calls for such discretionary authority to be given to the executive branch.
