. on the indochinese war very early. it is well kn that he was the originator of the amendment for a funds cutoff. in an effort to bring about a congressional impact in order to accelerate the end of the war. which amendment was dubbed the "amendment to end the war." this concept was a turning point in our vietnam deliberations in the senate. although it was defeated a few weeks ago. i predict that it will be a mighty force for two purposes. namely. one. to bring into the open the nations deep dissatisfaction with an indeterminate continuance of our participation in the tragic conflict in vietnam. and. second. to bring about an earlier end to hostilities there so far as the united states is concerned. on the recent mideast air hijackings. senator goodell was one of the first to call for security guards on our planes. and introduced the bill to "quarantine" countries harboring hijackers. he generally espoused the concept. for which he was given editorial credit. that the united states would hold responsible individual countries acting unilaterally. even if international action. so highly desirable. could  be obtained at this time. on domestic issues. senator goodell struck directly at the heart of our "national priorities" difficulties. and authored with senator proxmire of wisconsin an amendment to require an annual report on military expenditures. in order to focus public attention on both the extent and the details of our massive military budget. and the policies necessary for reconversion to a peacetime ecoy. senator goodell supported. either by introduction or cosponsorship. an extraordinarily broad range of legislation dealing with a wide variety of domestic problems. running the gamut from air traffic congestion to rat control and antipollution legislation. this broad range of legislation includes revenue sharingone of the great opportunities for the urban areas of the countryassistance to the states dealing with problems on drug abuse. city water and sewer facilities grants. revision and improvement of the formula affecting cost limits on subsidized housing. and housing abandonment. and senator goodells office informs me that that some 44 bills. resolutions and amendments authored or cosponsored by senator goodell have been enacted into law since january 1970. indeed. only last night. i was privileged to present to the senate. for senator goodell. an amendment which would make funds from the farmers home administration for water and sewer purposes much more available to the smaller towns and villages in the state of new york. that was praised by the manager of the bill. one of the leading members of the committee on agriculture and forestry. the senator from georgia
