. i should  be urging this amendment on the floor of the senate if the matter were  urgent. one recognizes the need for rules and the need for following rules in a legislative body better than i. however. in this particular instance. due to the fault of ne connected with either house of the congress. we are faced with an amendment which is intended to cure an emergent condition. if  cured this condition will cause serious consequences on long island. fire island inlet.with which i assume the members of the senate are  at all acquainted. connectsthe atlantic ocean with the great south bay. an intercoastal waterway directly south of long island. this inlet is the only means by which ingress can be made from the ocean to great south bay. as a result. the southern shore of long island is dependent to a vast extent upon the use of this inlet for shipping purposes. particularly in respect to fuel oil and oil products. the ordinary means of transportation. namely. railroads and motor vehicles. are  sufficient to handle the amount of traffic of this nature which must be had if the southern part of long island is to have the amount of fuel and other products necessary for its proper maintenance. over the last number of years. because of the currents. because of storms and hurricanes which had occurred in that particular section of the country. the inlet has been gradu.ally closed. only a few years ago the army built a $1.000.000 breakwater at the end of the inlet. that today is threatened. unless the project sought for in the amendment is actually put into .execution. the amendment provides.-on the basis of the report of the army engineers. the necessary amount of dredging to keep the inletopen. as it mustbe kept open. appropriation is here involved. the state of new york itself has appropriated funds to take care of the cost of the dredging. perhaps some day the state may be repaid. but i .assure the senate that in taking the action i am taking here today. i am doing so with a full realization that the state of new york may never be repaid for the $309.000 involved in the dredging project. it is so vitally necessary that we as a state are perfectly willing to go .ahead with the undertaking and pay for it. if granted.the authorization. with the strong possibility that- we may never .be .repaid. in order.to. protect..our- own. peo-. ple on. long island. that is why i am offering the amendment.
. i would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the senior senator from arkansas for the very eloquent remarks he madeand it is so fitting that he did so for this body and for all of usabout what took place in iwo jima. i was  at iwo jima. i do  k if anybody in this chamber was in the battle of iwo jima. there is question that there were fierce battles in the pacific in world war ii. i think senator bumpers has portrayed it so eloquentlythe values. why the whole thing took place. it took place exactly as he saidso that those bombers which were going from tinian. from guam. to japan would have a place. if they were shot up. as they were. to seek a harbor of refuge. as it were. i can remember. i was a young marine at the time on guam. for the bombers on guam. they built two parallel strips for those b29s to take off. and they would take off on the minute on one runway and on the half minute on the other runway. they assembled some 500 of them on these trips to japan. it was between a 16- and 18hour round trip for those bombers. then. of course. when they completed their mission over japan. after flying up there. a 7- to 8hour trip up there with those great loads. then they would start back. many of them badly shot up. and their goal was to get to iwo jima. the time i am talking about was some months after we had secured iowa jima. i had a friend in one of those b29s. he was the pilot. he radioed ahead to iwo jima that he was in a condition 3. as i recall. that was a term for the really desperate to land. and that gave him priority. you set your own conditions based upon the number of engines out and the amount of gas you had left. they said to him. "how much fuel do you have. how long can you circle." he said for 4 minutes. they said. "circle for 3 minutes. your priority is set." so he made it safely. but that shows you the congestion that was at iwo jima and the value of that. so. as senator bumpers so eloquently pointed out. 6.000 men were lost. and it was a terrible thing. it was a case where they gave their lives for somebody else. i did  k the figures. but senator bumpers indicated some 25.000i can well believe that figureairmen were saved. so it was a dramatic period. when the very best came out in our country and those who were there. i am so glad senator bumpers called our attention to it.
. i greatly appreciate the senior senator from iowas desire for prudence in defense spending. i share this desire. however. in seeking fiscal prudence in defense spending it would be unwise to eliminate systems that are clearly able to perform specific needed functions in a manner far superior to other existing systems. the a10 is clearly such a weapons system. it will fill the need for the close air support of our ground troops within the parameters established by defense experts far better than any existing aircraft. including the a7. the battlefield soldiers need an airplane that can be available immediately to support their fluid battlefield situation. this dictates long loiter times. up to 3 hours. and takeoff from very short takeoff and unimproved runways. 1.500 feet to 3.500 feet. the a10 meets these requirements through its high thrust and low fuel consumption engines. the aircraft system to support the ground troops must be able to destroy mobile armor and mobile tanks. this is accomplished by the 30 millimeter tankkilling can. specially designed for the a10. which itself was designed around the gun. this gun has been thoroughly tested and has met all specifications. high maneuverability of the aircraft system to keep the target always in sight was necessary. a large payload with great flexibility in armament to handle a variety of targets was also required. these requirements are built into the a10. in bad weather the foot soldier can be without air support for days. his support aircraft must be able to operate in a 1.000foot ceiling and with a 1mile visibility. this also dictates high maneuverability and visual contact with the ground. the a10 is designed to meet these requirements. operating in a hostile environment. the aircraft must have builtin survivability. special consideration for aircraft survivability and pilot protection requires up to 1.200pound armor plate below the pilot. special fuel tank protection. redundant control systems. capability "oneengineout" flight. loss of one horizontal and one vertical stabilizer. loss of an outer wing panel. et cetera. these features are designed into the a10 to allow completion of a mission and/or return safely. again. addressing the concern about costs the a10 aircraft system was "designedtocost" to meet the important requirements of providing close air support for the foot soldiers in the field. the costs are well established. the entire process of competitive flyoff between the a9 and the a10 for this important mission demonstrated the success of the system. i would like. also. to address the effectiveness of the a10 aircraft system for helping maintain the conventional balance of power. for example. in the future. we will likely be bringing home some of our troops from europe. the a10with its capability of carrying large and diverse payloads and its tank killing capacitywill provide support to the remaining troops to preclude being overrun by perhaps thousands of enemy tanks. e of us want more war. if we are to decrease our troop presence in europe. we would be less than wise  to seek increased firepower in order to maintain some form of credible military capability which must exist if the strategy of flexible response is to remain a viable one. the a10 is the only system that can perform precisely the mission of close air support as defined by the air force. i hope. therefore. that the senate will  eliminate this needed program. the amendment by senator hughes should be defeated.
. i realize. of course. that this bill contains quite a substantial amount of money for necessary fuel in order to operate the naval establishment. but it is also my understanding that this committee has felt. as have all other subcommittees. that great care should be taken by the navy department in spending of these funds so as  to undertake anything in the nature of unnecessary installations of new oilburning equipment or converting from coal to oilburning equipment unless a clear case can be shown that it is wise and cound.
through the nine agencies the senator named there has been inevitable delay. perhaps by reason of the number of agencies and the number of people involved. as a result the senator is pointing out that at this time the greatest need in this country is the saving of time in the production of barges and war material. the investigating committee is devoting itself to speeding up these operations and eliminating confusion. i ice that the senator from new york stated at one point that the agencies had overlooked the fact that there was a committee on diesel engines in the war production board. and that there was an absence of a report from that committee on diesel engines. it is a question of eliminating the extra committees and agencies and individuals. and the need is for greater speed in the production of barges.
. at this time i wish to join with the senator from alabama . and the senator from minnesota . in saying a word in support of senate resolution 114. i am glad that there are in the gallery men from the front line who i believe have an interest in precisely the subject  being discussed. to those who fight and win this war. whetherthey die in it or live through it. the senate owes one special duty. it is our sacred duty  only to do all we can to help them win the war but also to make sure that their efforts. their sacrifices. and their victory shall  be in vain. without their victory. complete in both hemispheres. there can be lasting peace and independence of opportunity. equally. without a just and lasting peace. their victory will be futile. nations can blunder into war. they can blunder into peace. much more. they can blunder into a just. a lasting. and a living peace. by a living peace i mean a peace with machinery to modify its terms from time to time to meet changing conditions. the establishment of the peace the world deserves calls upon this congress. at once. for hard work. high courage. and wellplanned. determined. constructive action. let us. therefore. dedicate the coming recess and the weeks following it to this l7020 duty. those on the firing line are doing more than their full share to plan and win the war. we can ask them also to plan and build the peace. they have. the right to expect us to plan and build a peace worthy of their success in war. to this end. i suggest three lines of thought and a course of procedure: congress is a trustee for the interests of the united states of america. both in war and in peace. today those interests depend directly upon the military. ecoic. social. political. and spiritual progress of both america and the world. first. we must. therefore. establish stability. prosperity. and freedom of opportunity within our borders. each government in the world owes a similar duty to its own people. the success of these internal efforts is. in turn. important to all who have external contact with them. second. likewise the nations in each natural region of nations. such as the region of the americas or of central europe or of the far east. have a special responsibility for stability. prosperity. and freedom of opportunity within their respective regions. the interests of the world will be well served by reserving as many issues as possible for settlement within the respective regions. third. finally. procedures must be established by which worldwide and interregional issues can be brought to reasonable conclusions without war and those conclusions can be enforced without question. at the same time that we thus seek peace and independence. we find that science. business. agriculture. labor. education. the professions. art. and religion offer to civilization greater ecoic improvements than man has ever kn. if there be postwar peace and opportunity for private initiative. the production of new wealth can be comparatively unlimited. examples are the measureless advances being made in transportation by aviation. in communication by radio. and in medicine by sulfa drugs. other examples are electric power. diesel power. automotive power. electric welding. plastics. wood. glass. soybeans and other agricultural products to be grown for industry as well as for food. it remains for man to end wasteful destruction and to encourage constructive initiative and fair competition. it remains for man to secure peace. provide stability. open the door of independent opportunity and attract the investment of private capital with all possible assurance of integrity and fairness in relation to competition and the protection of public interests. this calls for prompt personal conferences amohg representatives of private as well as public enterprise at home and then abroad. it calls for laying the foundations before blueprinting the superstructure. and there should be delay. it calls especially for study and agreements on principles and procedure. within the field of government there is . and there has been for some time. a need that meetings be initiated by the government of the united states.
today the senate has an historic opportunity. there is before us a treaty which is the first concrete step on an international basis to turn the mighty potential of the atom to the good of mankind. this is an opportunity that is  likely to come again. at this point in history the united states longer has a mooly in the nuclear energy field. a number of nations including. of course. the soviet union. are engaged in nuclear development. fortunately. relatively few of them are as yet active in the weapons field. many other nations. especially the underdeveloped countries. are eagerly seeking an opportunity to avail themselves of the marvelous benefits the atom can bring. let us  delude ourselves into the belief that the united states can decide whether these nations shall be cut off from utilization of the atom. that is  within our power. let us rather keep clearly in mind that the question is whether we shall join with and help other nations in their quest. whether we will take the lead in an effort that offers real hope of insuring that the development of peaceful uses of the atom will go forward in ways which will best serve our interests and the peace of the world. it is significant that this statute to establish an international atomic energy agency is the first plan of development and control in the atomic energy field on which virtually all the nations of the world have been able to agree. the united states has an opportunity for leadership. surely we will  forgo that opportunity. to do so would be to discourage the legitimate hopes and aspirations of a large part of the world. and we k that others. basically hostile to us. will be quick to exploit any failure on our part to take the lead. most important of all. hing would seem more clearly in the best interests of the united states than to encourage every reasonable step in the direction of effective international control of nuclear energy. to refuse to take this step. preliminary and modest though it is. can have incalculable consequences in terms of our own interests. the essential question seems to me a simple one. it is clear that atomic energy development is going to proceed. with or without our help. plainly. if we do  help. our chances of influencing that development will necessarily lessen. i realize. of course. that the united states has a number of bilateral agreements with other nations in the nuclear field. this agency will  supplant them. rather. as the responsible officials have pointed out. it should be a most effective supplement in many ways. it will enable us to reach nations who object to inspection by a single nation but do  have the same reluctance to inspection by an international agency. it will provide a pool of information on which we. too. can draw. it will lessen the drain on limited united states technical personnel and facilities. it can make an important contribution in maintaining health and safety standards. this latter consideration deserves greater public attention than it has so far received. as i understand the testimony of the technical experts. there are serour problems involved in the disposal of atomic waste and in avoiding pollution of water sources. for example. these problems k national boundaries. the chances of maintaining proper standards and safeguards such as are  provided in bilateral agreements are certainly far better under an orderly system of international regulation than in the competition likely to develop in the absence of an effective international agency. what of the risks that are involved in membership in this new agency. i understand the risks. but i have been unable to discover any substantial risk that can be avoided by refusing to join the agency. the draft statute specifically forbids the use for military purposes of fissionable material supplied through the international atomic energy agency. to insure the effectiveness of this prohibition. a comprehensive system of safeguards is provided. these safeguards are the equalindeed the same i am informedof any the united states  prescribes in its bilateral atomic agreements with other nations. among the most important of the safeguards is the right of inspection. of free access by agency personnel to all places. persons. and data having to do with a project. the project itself first has to be approved in detail by the agency. this means. of course. that like any other country that seeks agency assistance. any applicant among the soviet satellite countries will have to submit the projects for approval and agree to continuous inspection and accountability procedures. this would at least open a window on an area  cut off from our view. though  from a major source of nuclear materials and techogy. i am  a scientist. but qualified technical experts state that diversion of fissionable materials of the quality specified to military purposes would be most difficult. if  impossible. to achieve clandestinely. first of all. the material itself is below weapon quality so that long and expensive chemical processing would be required to make the material usable for weapons. secondly. the amounts involved are too small to permit production of significant quantities for military use. at the same time the strict accountability features in conjunction with other technical factors and the requirement that excess material be stored in agency storehouses make it most unlikely that diversion could be accomplished secretly. nearly 31/2 years ago president eisenhower appeared before the united nations and pledged this nation to find the way by which nuclear forces could be dedicated to the benefit.  the destruction. of man. his words sparked new hope throughout the world. today we have before us the result of the effort thus launched. to me our choice seems clear. we. less than other nations. want and need in the presidents words. the "new instrument of peaceful progress" this treaty would provide. its ratification will add new strength to our efforts for peace and may yet prove the key to a better future for every man.
. by leave of the senate i attended a conference in london which took place on thursday. friday. and a part of saturday. relating to the affairs of nato. the activities being those of the ecoic session of the nato parliamentarians. at a more appropriate momenti hope todayi shall make a report to the senate on some of the findings. at this point i wish to emphasize to my colleagues the exceedingly great importance which is ascribed by our colleagues and friends in the nato alliance. in an ecoic way. to the approval of the arrangements relating to euratom. i emphasize that factor at this time because it is so appropriate to my return. i express my gratification that i have arrived in time to add my voice to the approval of this exceedingly important development for europe. one ks better than the europeans that they must in some way reorient their energy needs away from oil. with respect to which they are entirely dependent on the middle east. they recognize better than most people the fact that their needs for oil are increasing at the rate of about 3 percent a year. so even if they do have atomic energy for peacetime. they will nevertheless continuethey think until about 1975to have very material needs for oil. in order that there may  be a major dislocation in the worlds ecoic picture. nevertheless. europe will be put into a much better ecoic position. i found a real disposition on the part of european countries. through their representatives at the conference. to join with us in a partnership effort for ecoic aid. about which i shall speak more fully when we discuss appropriations for mutual security. i certainly wish to congratulate our colleagues. both on the republican and democratic sides. who have led in this effort. i feel it is absolutely necessary that these nations be partners with us.  only in a military sense. but in a social and ecoic sense as well. at a time when that is so important in terms of the entire free world. i am. therefore. very glad to express. right from the horses mouth. so to speak. the feeling i found in europe today. which is a feeling of approval that we are considering the euratom treaty at this session. even though there had been some doubt about it before.
. i wish to call the attention of the senate to a very important development with respect to the oil offensive pursued by the soviet union in europe. which also came before me as chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. at the outset. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed as a part of my remarks an article entitled "eastern europe faces fuel lag." published in the oversea edition of the new york times of april 4. 1963.
. i invite the attention of senators to the important role being played by the state of new york. in a most interesting way. in connection with research and development. especially in space and atomic activities. i have long been concerned with the vital role that federal and state governments can play by acting together.. especially with the private sector of the ecoy. to improve the welfare of the nation. this is being done admirably in the state of new york. i am pleased to state that successful evidence of the workability of this concept was made clear yesterday when the state of new york. through its state atomic research and development authority. executed an agreement with the general electric co. to provide for the continued operation under state ownership of this nations original rocket development and test center. the historic formerly federally owned installation. kn as the malta test station. occupies 165 acres in the heart of 7.000acre luther forest in saratoga county. approximately 15 miles th of schenectady. n.y. the test station was sold by the federal government to the state authority for $330.000 after it had been offered for public bid and all bids from private industry had been rejected. in addition to the original v2 rocket facilities which are located at the new york state test site. the station includes six test pits capable of accommodating the static firing of rocket engines in a range of up to 250.000 pounds thrust. as well as equipment for the simulation of spacecraft reentry and facilities for the testing of nuclearrelated missile components and systems. in its program to utilize the station as a comprehensive space techogy and atomic radiation center. the new york authority will construct during the next 18 months a $1.500.000 nuclear pulsed reactor and related facilities to help meet declared national defense requirements for the development and test of electronics equipment utilized in u.s. missile programs. under state ownership. the station will also be developed to improve its service capabilities in nuclearrelated space fields and will continue to perform services to industry and government in the theastern united states similar to those it has been performing in the past under federal ownership. the agreement annced yesterday is the new york state authoritys second major enterprise undertaken cooperatively with private industry in implementation of the authoritys objective of assuring for new york state a leading role in atomic energy and atomicrelated techogies. the new york state authoritys first such cooperative enterprise involves the construction.  underway 30 miles south of buffalo. n.y.. of this nations first plant to reclaim and recycle nuclear fuels utilized in civilian atomic power stations. the $30 million western new york project is being carried out cooperatively by the authority with nuclear fuel services. inc.. a subsidiary of w. r. grace & co.. in which the american machine & foundry co. also has an interest. i am hopeful that this example of constructive work between federal and state governments and private enterprise and of the boldness of new york states planning for the space age will provide a meaningful basis for continued efforts in this area. to me. these activities are extremely important. they demonstrate the way of the future through the cooperation -in great ventures that are impossible at this time for the private sectors of the ecoy alone. but become entirely possible in association with federal and state governments. this is especially so where there is the kind of initiative and understanding of these problems that is displayed in new york under the leadership of gov. nelson a. rockefeller. results of a highly constructive character are achieved for the total ecoy of the nation as well as for the ecoy of the state of new york and the region in which it is located. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record information relating to the subject i have just discussed.
. one could put this question down. as between the two senators from california. as an intracalifornia question. the gover used his authority. which. as senator murphy properly says. is  a veto. to challenge a particular funding. and. of course. the gover can be overruled by the director of the oeo. the difficulty is that mr. carlucci. who i think is eminently qualified to be the director of the oeo. is caught in the squeeze. this is most unfortunate. i do  wish to add fuel to the flames in any way. i rise only as i am the ranking miity member of the committee. very greatly interested in this matter because i felt that the oeo has many problems. as we all k. it has just been funded by the hewlabor conference report we put through. morale in the agency is of the greatest consequence. i still hope. although the hours are short. that we will find some way in which. completely consistent with his conscience and his principles the senator from california might see fit to allow the carlucci ination to be acted upon. either by a meeting of the committee if that is humanly possible. or by polling the committee which is possible also. if there is objection. but i rise  to express my conviction that mr. carlucci will make a fine director for the agency. that it would be extremely deplorable and regrettable if the agency is left. in iact. without a head because mr. rumsfeld has already said he is leaving and mr. carlucci has been designated. and if this problem. which really should  be a problem. as the senator from california (mr. murphy) says. is  resolved in some waya morale problem may result. i k a great deal about mr. carluccis record. it is a most admirable and objective one. i think he would be a very partisan director of the agency. i hope very much that in the interests of holding to the war on povertywhich remains a crying need in this country right to this momentwe will find a way out of this momentary impasse and enable the agency to have a head and  cause a fine man. who is its inee. to be caught in the crack. as it were. the senator from california is right about this if mr. carlucci does it under this kind of situation he will put me in doubt and thers in doubt as to whether he is a suitable inee to serve as director. because he would be deciding off the top of his head something which he has a statutory obligation to look into. so it is a tough one. as i have said. i rise only to affirm my support of this man as the inee and urge the highest exigency be given to this agency to have a head and to express the hope. as i say. without further muddying the waters. that we may find a way. even though our time is short.
