they told us so. i asked all of the witnesses whether the internal revenue service wanted the program. and they said the service was  qualified to handle it and that they had more work than they could handle . in substance. the senator will remember that. in the next place. although we have learned about only 1 or 2 or perhaps 3 funds which have gone wrong in this field. that does  mean that others have  gone wrong or can go wrong. might there  be theft or larceny of one kind or aher in connection with such funds. i k of reason why there can be. i wish to say to my good friend. the senator from arizona. that i do  think it is necessary to investigate fully and completely all these questions. we k that the distinguished senator from colorado is proposing that 90 percent of the plans  be included. yet is it fair to all to have any funds exempt in this entire field. the position of the secretary of labor. which i think is utterly sound. is that e should be exempt. the secretary does  even approve of the 100man exemption which is in s. 2888. we made that concession so that the bill would be workable. we must have something which is workable. i point out that such an exemption would greatly reduce the cost of administration of the program. i can follow the reasoning of the senator at all. i do  think it is a sound approach.
. i would like to repeat that: this independence of the judge is equally requisite to guard the constitution and the rights of individuals. this independence. so consciously sought and carefully crafted by the constitution. would be jeopardized if congress could: remove court jurisdiction depending upon whether it approved of a decision. 1 eview decision before they became effective. or require the court to decide a case in a specific way. two questions are involved here. first. does congress have the authority to restrict federal court jurisdiction. and second. if so. is this good policy. from my perspective. the answer to both questions is a resounding ""0 while some limitations on fedcral court jurisdiction have been enacted in the past. e has come close to doing what is prescribed by the johnstonhelms amendment. in addition. legislative enactment upheld by the courts has ever completely removed the authority either of the lower federal courts or the supreme court. to hear and decide matters of constitutional dimension or to grant the relief necessary for violation of constitutional rights. the statute most often referred to as proof that congress does have the power to withdraw particular subjects from the federal courts is the rislaguardia act of 1932. section 7 of this act. which has been upheld by the supreme court. bars any federal court from issuing an injunction in any case involving a labor dispute. unless a hearing is held and certain findings are made. neither that limitation  the limitations contained in other sections of the act attempt to withdraw the authority of federal courts to enforce existing constitutional reforms. likewise. two other decisions cited by supporters of the johnstonhelms amendment do  apply to legislation as broad as this. this tax injunction act (1867). which was upheld by the supreme court. while prohibiting the courts ability to hear suits involving tax collections. did  deprive the court of its authority to enforce constitutional rights. courts were free to hear any constitutional challenge involved in a suit to recover the amount of tax after collection. ex parte mecardle (1869). aher ease cited by supporters of johnstonhelms. merely removed from supreme court jurisdiction a narrow class of habeas corpus cases over which they had been given jurisdiction only a year earlier. in a variety of instances. congress has attempted to restrict the powers of the federal courts. in 1958. legislation introduced by senator jenner sought to withdraw supreme court appellate jurisdiction of any question pertaining to state bar admissions.
 kennedy when he first urged its enactmentsimple justice requires that public funds. to which all taxpayers of all races contribute.  be spent in any fashion which encourages. entrenches. subsidizes or results in racial discrimination. ... section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 holds that handicapped individuals must . solely by reason of handicap. be subjected to discrimination by institutions receiving federal financial assistance. section 504 has helped to assure equal access to jobs and services for handicapped persons and has provided wider opportunties for handicapped individuals throughout our society. section 504 has helped to eliminate the barriers which once prevented handicapped persons from participating fully in the life of our nation. we must work to assure that there are barriers to enforcement of its antidiscrimination provision. the age discrimination act of 1975 prohibits discrimination by age in the delivery of services by federally supported institutions. this law insures that person shall. on account of age. be excluded from participation in or denied the services of any institution receiving federal assistance. both section 504 and the age discrimination act. like title vi and title ix. prohibit discrimination by "any program or activity" which is federally supported. the legisaltion we are introducing today would substitute the word "recipient" in place of this phrase. thus guaranteeing institution wide coverage. this legislation also carefully adjusts the enforcement sections of these laws. to.insure that federal aid can be withheld from recipients found to be guilty of practicing discrimination. an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring the equal rights for all our citizens. congress must act promptly to clarify the broad scope of coverage intended for these statutes. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. but these four statutes have helped our nation make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas. they opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited.  is  the time to turn back. i hope my colleagues will join in working for the enactment of this vital legislation.*
. i rise to commend senator packwoods amendment of yesterday reaffirming u.s. commitment to furnishing international population family planning assistance under the foreign assistance act of 1961. the united states has taken an international leadership role in funding voluntary population programs. relatively inexpensive family planning programs improve maternal and child health. bring down birth rates. reduce the number of abortions. and contribute to ecoic development. although population growth has stopped in several european countries. 34 third world countries have populations that are expanding at 3 percent or more every year. the result is inadequate housing. health care. education. hunger and malrishment and frustration. in these countries the failure to institute successful population policies is leading to a broadbased decline in the standard of living. this is a trend the united states must help reverse by continuing its support of world family planning programs. an annual population growth of 3 percent will lead to a nineteenfold increase in population in a century. in the attached article. the washington post reports the world bank projection that unless prompt familyplanning measures are taken in poor countries. the worlds population will explode from 4.8 billion to about 10 billion by the year 2050. india alone is projected to add more than aher billion people to its population before stabilizing at 1.84 billion. while neighboring bangladesh and pakistan could increase from 99 and 97 million at present to 430 million and 411 million. respectively. if these projections are correct. the indian subcontinent would be home to 2.7 billion peoplemore than the entire world population in 1950. stopping world population growth requires bringing the number of births and deaths more nearly into balance. the united states must recognize the necessity of continuing its support for comprehensive family planning services at home and abroad. there is humane justification for limiting funds to promote effective birth control. the demand for family planning services is great and continues to increase. slowing population growth will . in and of itself. solve the problems facing developing countries. but it will helg provide a more stable environment in which political and ecoic leaders can formulate development programs. for example. it has been estimated that new family planning programs could prevent over 5 million infant deaths every year by preventing conceptions in high risk mothers and by allowing longer spacirg between births so that infants receive adequate care. adequate feeding. and a better start in life. if the united states were to limit expenditures on family planning services. the results would be disastrous. without birth control information and contraceptive devices. unstanted pregnancies would definitely follow. the number of abortions would rise since some women would turn to abortion as a remedy for an unwanted pregnancy. finally. child abuse and mortality would increase. comprehensive family planning programs focus on limiting pregnancy in high risk mothers. without such services there is little hope that these women would receive adequate care. without internal social stability there can be positive development in the third world. family planning is a necessary component of any national program to increase per capita income and ecoic wellbeing. it is a stimulant to growth and a means to reduce unequal social opportunities. any attempt to decrease expenditures for these pregnancies would be inhumane and foolish and should be avoided. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington post reporting on the world banks "annual world development report." be print-
 kennedy when he first urged its enactmentsimple justice requires that public funds. to which all taxpayers of all races contribute.  be spent in any fashion which encourages. entrenches. subsidizes or results in racial discrimination. ... section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 holds that handicapped individuals must . solely by reason of handicap. be subjected to discrimination by institutions receiving federal financial assistance. section 504 has helped to assure equal access to jobs and services for handicapped persons and has provided wider opportunties for handicapped individuals throughout our society. section 504 has helped to eliminate the barriers which once prevented handicapped persons from participating fully in the life of our nation. we must work to assure that there are barriers to enforcement of its antidiscrimination provision. the age discrimination act of 1975 prohibits discrimination by age in the delivery of services by federally supported institutions. this law insures that person shall. on account of age. be excluded from participation in or denied the services of any institution receiving federal assistance. both section 504 and the age discrimination act. like title vi and title ix. prohibit discrimination by "any program or activity" which is federally supported. the legisaltion we are introducing today would substitute the word "recipient" in place of this phrase. thus guaranteeing institution wide coverage. this legislation also carefully adjusts the enforcement sections of these laws. to.insure that federal aid can be withheld from recipients found to be guilty of practicing discrimination. an institution which receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance should  be permitted to practice any form of discrimination. in order for our nation to make continued progress in assuring the equal rights for all our citizens. congress must act promptly to clarify the broad scope of coverage intended for these statutes. complete equality of opportunity is  yet a reality for all our citizens. but these four statutes have helped our nation make significant strides in eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas. they opened doors to groups in our society whose aspirations and opportunities had previously been limited.  is  the time to turn back. i hope my colleagues will join in working for the enactment of this vital legislation.*
. i rise to commend senator packwoods amendment of yesterday reaffirming u.s. commitment to furnishing international population family planning assistance under the foreign assistance act of 1961. the united states has taken an international leadership role in funding voluntary population programs. relatively inexpensive family planning programs improve maternal and child health. bring down birth rates. reduce the number of abortions. and contribute to ecoic development. although population growth has stopped in several european countries. 34 third world countries have populations that are expanding at 3 percent or more every year. the result is inadequate housing. health care. education. hunger and malrishment and frustration. in these countries the failure to institute successful population policies is leading to a broadbased decline in the standard of living. this is a trend the united states must help reverse by continuing its support of world family planning programs. an annual population growth of 3 percent will lead to a nineteenfold increase in population in a century. in the attached article. the washington post reports the world bank projection that unless prompt familyplanning measures are taken in poor countries. the worlds population will explode from 4.8 billion to about 10 billion by the year 2050. india alone is projected to add more than aher billion people to its population before stabilizing at 1.84 billion. while neighboring bangladesh and pakistan could increase from 99 and 97 million at present to 430 million and 411 million. respectively. if these projections are correct. the indian subcontinent would be home to 2.7 billion peoplemore than the entire world population in 1950. stopping world population growth requires bringing the number of births and deaths more nearly into balance. the united states must recognize the necessity of continuing its support for comprehensive family planning services at home and abroad. there is humane justification for limiting funds to promote effective birth control. the demand for family planning services is great and continues to increase. slowing population growth will . in and of itself. solve the problems facing developing countries. but it will helg provide a more stable environment in which political and ecoic leaders can formulate development programs. for example. it has been estimated that new family planning programs could prevent over 5 million infant deaths every year by preventing conceptions in high risk mothers and by allowing longer spacirg between births so that infants receive adequate care. adequate feeding. and a better start in life. if the united states were to limit expenditures on family planning services. the results would be disastrous. without birth control information and contraceptive devices. unstanted pregnancies would definitely follow. the number of abortions would rise since some women would turn to abortion as a remedy for an unwanted pregnancy. finally. child abuse and mortality would increase. comprehensive family planning programs focus on limiting pregnancy in high risk mothers. without such services there is little hope that these women would receive adequate care. without internal social stability there can be positive development in the third world. family planning is a necessary component of any national program to increase per capita income and ecoic wellbeing. it is a stimulant to growth and a means to reduce unequal social opportunities. any attempt to decrease expenditures for these pregnancies would be inhumane and foolish and should be avoided. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the washington post reporting on the world banks "annual world development report." be print-
madam president. the point is that committee staffs keep growing. i do  think we can have it both ways. if we are having more committeesveterans affairs. elderly. intelligence. indian affairs. budgeti do  think we can say that by having five more committees. and i have just named those five. that we have  reduced the workload of some of the other committees. then something is wrong somewhere. i can believe that attention was given to the elderly. attention was given to indians. attention was given to veterans. attention was given to the budget under the prior system. so as we had more committees and more staff for those committees. clearly the workload of the other committees. existing prior thereto. was reduced. i think that makes common sense. the next point. madam president. is. just look at the total. in 1950. 300 staff. in 1970. 647. and in 1990. 1.203. four times as many as there were in 1950. by the way. i think in 1950. they were putting through some extraordinary legislationthe marshall plan. getting ready for medicare. for example. a whole series of programs. how are we going to stop this. the distinguished chairman of the rules committee said we are throwing him a hot potato. we are asking him to tell some committee to fire people because a legitimate cause has been made for added employees in aher committee. it does  quite work out that way because there are vacancies. actually there are 1.108 people on the staff . or there were as of december 31. so there are vacancies. these positions are  always filled. i think he envisions horrors that just are  there. and so when there comes along a surge. it seems to me it can be handled by making them temporary positions. saying to the chairman. "all right. you have a whole series of judges that you have to get ready for." or "we have expanded the number of circuit court judges. and thus you are going to need more investigations. background checks. and so forth. that is this year. and you can have eight more employees. but they are  permanent. and. . you better plan for that." and people can plan for these things. so i urge my colleagues to support this amendment. what a signal it would send to the country. what a wonderful signal. here we are saying to everybody. you have to be thrifty. cut back. we are trying to balance this budget. we are trying to reduce the deficit. here is a chance to do something about it. here is a chance to take a special step. and it is  that painful. it just says we are going to stick by the number of positions. authorized positions.  filled positions. that we have currently. we are  going to increase this year.  the year after. i reserve the remainder of my time. if there is hing further
. i would say the ball lies in the majority partys court and certainly those of us on this side would cooperate to achieve a good result. but i do  think raising taxes very substantially and spending the money on 83 cents a day per child under 15 is going to get us very far.
. the point is there wont be resources for these programs that are so important. so i dont think that is where we want to be at the end of the day. i dont think we want to end up with these programs losing out because we have adopted the others. if the others are allthat importantthe antidrug provisions. illegal drugs. the marriage penalty reliefthere will be a chance at aher time to address those. but in this legislation lets stick with the objective. which is to reduce teenage smoking. prevent it from occurring in the beginning. and do all we can to encourage those who are smokers to give up that unfortunate habit. sb for these reasons. i urge my colleagues to reject the antidrug and the tax cut amendments. they are  about tobacco. they should hot be in this bill. i thank the chair.
. the point is there wont be resources for these programs that are so important. so i dont think that is where we want to be at the end of the day. i dont think we want to end up with these programs losing out because we have adopted the others. if the others are allthat importantthe antidrug provisions. illegal drugs. the marriage penalty reliefthere will be a chance at aher time to address those. but in this legislation lets stick with the objective. which is to reduce teenage smoking. prevent it from occurring in the beginning. and do all we can to encourage those who are smokers to give up that unfortunate habit. sb for these reasons. i urge my colleagues to reject the antidrug and the tax cut amendments. they are  about tobacco. they should hot be in this bill. i thank the chair.
. i am sorry to find myself in opposition to the distinguished senator from maine. the distinguished senator from oklahoma. and the distinguished senator from washington. becausemore often than  i think we are very much on the same side of this issue. and certainly i think each one of them by their own actions in the senate over the years has displayed his commitment to quality education. but let me just make this statement: cxxii----842part 11 every time a court rules in this country on educational matters and the quality of education opportunity. it means that this legislative body has failed to act or has acted insufficiently. i am delighted to hear about all the statistics on growth and how additional moneys have been spent in this area. one is saying that the problem has been totally iged. but it is clear that the problem has  been adequately addressed. otherwise. there would be court orders. and there would be busing amendments in the chamber. but there are busing amendments and there are court orders. the reason for them is that we have failed to act in an adequate fashion. so as to the statistics that have been cited by the distinguished senator from maine as to what we have done over the years and comments that have been made by other senators as to their deep devotion to the cause of education. there is the old saying. "the proof of the pudding is in the eating." and the eating is pretty bitter stuff for too many americans. and that is the reason why we are e to e in the cities of the nation and in this chamber. i hear a great deal about fiscal responsibility. and certainly i think each one believes in it. but i think there is a higher responsibility that sits on each of our shoulders. and that is constitutional responsibility. this body has evaded its constitutional responsibility to tell the american people that there is a price to be paid. there is a price to be paid to achieve a quality of educational opportunity. it is  something that is going to drop out of the sky. i shall end on our presentation of this matter. i thank the distinguished senator from massachusetts for so eloquently setting forth our case. i heard a great deal of discussion as to how the budget committee sits down. weighs various alternatives. and arrives at its decision. let us talk about alternatives for 1 minute when it comes to quality of educational opportunity. there is the alternative. which obviously  many people seem to appreciate either in or out of this chamber. of a change in life style or. to put it in its more common term. busing. one seems to care to pay that price. then there is the alternative of paying the price in dollars and cents. that is what this amendment is all about. and then there is the alternative of doing hing. apparently wants to -change the life style. apparently. if i can count. we are going to go down the pike again paying the cost in dollars and cents. and so one can only come to the conclusion that this body. along with the rest of the nation. has decided on the third alternative to do anything. let this generation live with a little inequality because actually there is cost that will immediately be felt. i find that a very interesting exercise in putting off until tomorrow or on our kids shoulders what we should be doing today. there is a cost. there is a price to be paid. what form is it going to take. to me this is the positive answer to the problem. i grant obviously we all k that the problem is  only rooted in education. it is rooted in housing. and there is a cost to be paid there. is there any small wonder the confrontation is all the greater today than in the past. we have seen the declining number of those participating in title i. when is someone going to stand up and say to this country that a nickel invested is  fiscal irresponsibility. because in every generation that nickel is brought back 10fold. but it has to be invested. that is what we are talking about: money thrown down the drain.  fiscal irresponsibility. we are talking about young men and women who are going to become the backbone of this nation. become income producing. and become its leaders. instead of becoming a charge on society because society has chosen to sit in its corner and respond by paying the price of a little inequality. shame on this generation.
. i should like to address several comments to the remarks made by the distinguished senator from nebraska and the distinguished senator from louisiana. first. i reemphasize what the senator from nebraska mentioned about these 8.000 cases. the justice department has restrictions at all when it comes to tax evasion. it has hing to do with this amendment. this amendment strictly deals with tax cases. so let us  confuse the issue. if indeed these 8.000 cases are tax evaders. there are restrictions applied by this amendment at all.  2. organized crime. it is great to toss buzz words out here to make it seem that senator haskell and i are for organized crime if we go ahead and push for this amendment. i suggest that the reason we ate here today with this legislation has very little to do with organized crime and has a great deal to do with crime in government. why have we picked this year. in other words. to bring forth tax privacy legislation. why is this legislation before us . does it have anything to do with organized crime. does it have anything to do with white collar crime. it certainly does . the reason we have it before us. the reason it is in this bill. is that one of the main crimes to come out of watergate was the use of tax returns for political purposes. what we are trying to do is address that crime which occurred within our segment of national life: specifically. government. i am all for chasing organized crime and any other crime you want to mention. but it is time we cleaned up our own house. that is the reason i want to emphasize tax privacy. and i believe the senator from colorado feels. the same way. on tax returns. when i make out my tax return. i want to repeat. i am making out my tax return for ody else but the internal revenue service. i am  making it out for the justice department. except as they would pursue a tax evasion case. fair egh. but i am  giving it to them for any other purpose. i am  making out my return for the census bureau. granted. it is cheaper. since we do  have to set up a whole other system for counting es. but that is  what i am making it out for. i am  making it out for the department of agriculture to use the tax return to ascertain certain facts about the farmers of this country. i am  making it out for the white house. i am  making it out for anybody. i am making it out in order to satisfy the requirements of law in the collection of taxes: in order to be a good citizen in the sense of complying with the rules and regulations of the internal revenue service. and for absolutely hing else. gentlemen. . maybe the senator would like to send out aher form to every american and say. "please indicate on here certain facts and data. et cetera. which will enable us to prosecute you for a variety of crimes." then go ahead and say so. i tell the senators what i shall do. would either of the gentlemen who have spoken against this amendment be willing to have printed. on every tax return in bold print. "this return may be used for any purpose whatsoever by your government."  i do  think so. i think it is very clear that what we are asking people to do we are then taking and using for whatever purposes we desire.
while we are on that. along with the kks there ought to be praise. also. and let it be stated that what the committee has done here on the senate side is.  1. unique and important legislation in this area. i do  think there are any provisions. as a matter of fact. in the house bill at all. so my hat is off to the committee. all i am saying is that i k that the justice department is unhappy with the whole section. they would like to go back to the good old days and there would be provisions in here at all. that is the reason i have to stand up and speak for these provisions. in order that we achieve meaningful tax privacy. i say to the senator that what we have done here is a great improvement on the present law. which is hing at all. the difficulty is that. as the senator ks. whatever procedures were in place. let us say. during the last several years were totally ineffective. i refer back to my actual testimony before senator ervins committee on constitutional rights. during those proceedings. i brought to light that there were at least 10.000 to 20.000 tax returns floating around in the various departments of government that had  been obtained by court order. that had  gone through any sort of process in obtaining them. yet they were there. this is what we are trying to shore up at this stage of the game. granted. it is cheaper and easier for justice to go directly to the irs. what i am saying is that if the justice department is deficient in its battle against drganized crime. pay the money. get the attorneys. set up the apparatus so that we do the job constitutionally. but by gosh. i am  willing to go ahead and let a little bit of the constitution go because that is cheap. there is cost to it. there is hing to come out of your pocket. we do  have to ask the taxpayers for anything for that. but oh. my lord. what a sacrifice and what a terrible payment as far as the future is concerned. i understand why justice wants this. it is strictly for matters of expense and expediency. that is something i am  willing to give away as far as the constitution goes. i think. basically. i hit the points i wanted to make. and i wanted to reiterate the point that that amendment in ise can apply to the tax evader. the department of justice can do its job 100 percent with respect to the tax evader. it is tax purposes that we are talking about.
with due deference to the senator from south carolina. i do  think it makes any difference what is going to be said here. or what was said during the course of the appropriations committee hearings. for. it all went down the drain with the substitute amendment. we do  defend the committees studied recommendations. maybe we would have lost. but i think we would have won. i think everybody recognizes this kind of fraudulent amendment for what it is. on the other hand. let us continue with the "old" report of the subcommittee. the august 3 version will be heard. i suspect. for some time tonight. i continue: the committee is concered that certain temporary regulations affecting justice department access to individual tax returns in tax criminal cases. remain in effect 2 years after passage of the tax reform act of 1976. under section 1202 of that act. tax information for tax criminal purposes can be disclosed to the justice department without a court order. the temporary regulations permit justice department access and therefore subvert the law. the committee directs that funds should be used by the justice department in implementing the temporary regulations under section 404.6103(h)(2)1 (a) (2) of the treasury temporary regulations on procedure and administration. that part of the report language probably does  have any familiarity to the distinguished senator from delaware. what it tries to do is insure that. through the appropriations process. we will have tax privacy in this country. tax returns were grossly abused and violated in the past. and this senator determined it will  happen again in the future. the justice department has been very lax in producing those regulations. i have letters on my desk saying. "we are complying. we have regulations. cant you let us off the hook." i do  think i am going to go ahead and let them off the hook this fast. it has taken them 2 more years than was anticipated to comply with the law. i am one of those strange people around here who believe the justice department should comply with the law. just like anybody else. continuing to read:
: the committee recommends an appropriation of $5.353.000. an increase of $161.000 over the 1978 appropriations to date. the amount recommended is the same as the budget estimate and .$5.353.000 over the amount allowed by the house. and will support a total of 136 permanent positions. the funds appropriated for community relations service. which was established by title x of the civil rights act of 1964. provide assistance in resolving disputes. disagreements. and difficulties arising from discriminatory practices which disrupt peaceful relations among citizens. the increase reflects funds requested for discretionary increases offset by a program decrease involving 10 positions. justification material presented to the committee indicated that the decrease would  substantially affect the current program level due to increased staff effectiveness and efficiency. federal bureau of investigation salaries and expenses 1978 appropriations to date_ 1 $529. 454. 000 1979 budget estimate --------- 556. 750.000 house allowance ............ committee recommendation-- 558. 750. 000 1 excludes pending supplemental appropriation estimates of $24.500.000. the committee recommends an appropriation of $558.750.000. an increase of $29.296.000 over the 1978 appropriations to date. the amount recommended is $2.000.000 over the budget estimate and $558.750.000 over the amount allowed by the house. and will support a total of 19.775 permanent positions. the federal bureau of investigation is the principal investigative arm of the department of justice. it collects evidence for use in civil litigation and prosecution of the violators of federal criminal statutes. it has primary responsibility for the internal security of the nation. it assists other law enforcement agencies through the dissemination of information. location of fugitives. training. identification. and laboratory services. i might add while on the matter of this budget i wish to k exactly where it is the senator from delaware recommends that the federal bureau of investigation be cut. i ice the distinguished chairman of the small business committee is in the chamber and i also wish to say to him it is 2 percent of his budget that will be cut arbitrarily. i k of all the thought that went into the development of that budget since i saw it from both the authorization and the appropriations process. it makes difference. the hearings make difference any longer. someone mentions a cut in the chamber and then all that work goes down the drain. i am  ready to go ahead and abandon my position in the development of those budgets and the development of small business just for the sake of satisfying the political whims of a colleague on the republican side and a colleague on the democratic side. to return to the committee report: the committee believes that the reductions made in certain programs by the administration were too severe and would be detrimental to an effective federal law enforcement effort. . apparently this effort is to be even further reduced by the distinguished senator from delaware: the committee pursuant to authorizations by the senate judiciary committee hereby provides $1 million (40 permanent positions) over the budget request to augment headquarters management and coordination of domestic security and terrorism activities. and $1 million (40 permanent positions) over the request for domestic security and terrorism investigations. apparently both these instances are  considered important and these activities can stand a 2percent cut. should there be a terrorism incident and should we  have the proper response to it. then believe me. the senator from delaware can go ahead and use that as a campaign platform among his constituents: at a time when acts of terrorism are increasing throughout the world. the federal bureau of investigation should  reduce its capability to handle such situations in the united states to the extent recommended in the administration budget. the committee believes that restoration of these funds and positions are necessary to provide for efficient and effective coordination of this program and to respond to terrorist incidents under the jurisdiction of the federal bureau of investigation. the committee is concerned about the ability of the fbi to adequately manage and coordinate its investigative operations in view of the substantial reductions made to this progam by the administration. the committee is  at this time recommending full restoration of funds for this program. however. because it was  provided for in the authorization bill but will follow the program to insure that the nations law enforcement effort is  damaged because of the reduced funding. i remember the great concern exhibited by the distinguished senator from south carolina as to the rather severe cuts made by the administration in the federal bureau of investigation. a special session was held with the director in a special effort to go ahead and restore those funds. indeed. if you will recall. it was the director who almost immediately upon his appointment was in disagreement with the administration because of the cuts the administration was trying to make. he so expressly himself publicly. and he received the support of the distinguished senator from south carolina. all that is for naught at this stage of the game. just go ahead and cut it across the board. do  have any deliberation or many making of policy by this body. simply adopt the approach to cut regardless of where the cut takes place. so the federal bureau of investigation and the law enforcement functions of that agency will be all the less by the time the activities are concluded on this floor tonight or tomorrow:
. first. i indicate i am upset at a unanimousconsent agreement to which i clearly had expressed to the leadership on my side of the aisle my opposition. insofar as this amendment is concerned. i understand that it is under a 1hour limitation. which i never would have agreed to. i understand that it is  amendable. which i also never would have agreed to. i suppose what bothers me is that this goes to amending that portion of the law which was finally put into place after 4 years of hard work on both the house side and the senate side. this law is a direct result of watergate and a direct result of abuses by the irs. the justice department. and the white house. it was a tax privacy issue and one that was gone over with -a finetooth comb during hearing after hearing on both the house and senate sides. during debate on this floor. it was amended in a regulatory way through agreement by the justice department. and  here is a simple amendment to tear the whole structure down and go back to squaxe one. i have 20 or 25 minutes to sum up. if you will. to voice my opposition to legislation which was introduced initially in 1975 and was accepted in 1978. there were roughly 3 years of factfinding. 3 years of hearings. 3 years of debate. finally putting into place the safeguards which would have prevented the abuses which occurred during watergate. . as a germane rider to this bill. it comes under a 1hour limitation because of a screwup by the leadership on my side. i can believe it. in any event. let me specifically say that the reason why the law is as it reads today is to prevent the internal revenue service from becoming a lending library to every other institution of government. i do  have to sit here and recite the litany of watergate abuses and access to the irs by the executive branch.  just the white houseby the justice department. by the agriculture department. the agriculture department was brought into the act by the investigations of the deceased representative from missouri. jerry litton. where it was found that irs information was used on a wholesale basis as it pertained to farmers. between mr. littons investigation into the abuse of irs information on the agricultural scene. and mine on the watergate scene. the law was put on the books which at least would guarantee some safeguards to the individuals privacy. i am to testify before the investigations subcommittee tomorrow on this very issue. all the evidence. all the moaning. and groaning. and complaining. that has been heard from the justice department is a matter of record before sam nunns subcommittee. but ody has addressed the issue as to whether those complaints are legitimate. in effect. the way the law reads today. before you go racing willynilly over to the irs. you have to get an ex parte order from a judge. it is  a matter that the information is denied the justice department. but there has to be an unbiased buffer. prior to the legislation being on the books. justice could go to irs. anybody could get that information.  just on a potential defendant or  just on a potential wrongdoer. you could get irs information on the jurors. on the witnesses. never mind the political aspects of that irs information. so the law we put on the books tried to take into consideration the abuses that had transpired in the past and at the same time  deny to the justice department information where it could be proved information was necessary. it is my understanding that because of the internal machinations of the irs. they have been rather loath to go ahead and impart any information. that is an administrative matter. and one which i think could be cleared up with the proper legislation. indeed. i was prepared to support part of the amendment of the senator from arizona. but  that part of the amendment substituting the secretary of treasury for a judge in the independent judicial system. if i had the opportunity to amend. i would so amend. and  ask to defeat what the senator from arizona is trying to achieve. there is a valid gripe. in my mind. as to the time it takes for the internal revenue service to get information to justice. once they have gone through the ex parte proceedings and have gotten the judicial order. that is fair egh. what is  proper is to put into the hands of the secretary of the treasury the duties  held by the courts of this nation. and purposely so. as a protection for each of us. i recall 2 years ago when we had the tax reform act. and senator long was out here indicating that i was aiding organized crime. narcotics. and all the rest. yet. in the testimony before the subcommittee of the senator from georgia. one of the most successful narcotics prosecutions out on the west coast used the system in place today. and it worked.
in direct response to the distinguished senator. under the deconcini amendment. his tax returns on the basis of such an allegation would be made available to the justice department. the distinguished senator from arizona is going to say. "but there is a check. the secretary of the treasury." if i am  mistaken the attorney general and the secretary of the treasury are usually one and the same party. so as far as i am concerned that is check. let us understand very clearly what is being done here by this amendment. first. you are replacing a court. a judge. with a political appointee to make the decision. and then the very three central criteria which are in the law at the present time. one. that there is reasonable causeit is  probable cause but reasonable causeto believe. based upon information believed to be reliable. that a specific criminal act has been committed. second. there is reason to believe that such return or return information is probative evidenceprobative evidenceof a matter in issue related to the commission of such criminal act. and third. the information sought to be disclosed can reasonably be obtained from any other source. unless it is determined that. withstanding the reasonable availability of the information from aher source. the return or return information sought constitutes the most probative evidence of a matter in issue relating to the commission of such criminal act. all those criteria are just eliminated. you read  what it says here and e of those criteria are used at all. the secretary of the treasury is to make the determination. what really is sad. gentlemen. is that we hear buzz words: "organized crime". "narcotics"--words to get us all emotionally charged. to the exclusion of our concern for peoples constitutional rights. to that list may i add a few others. actors and actresses. clergymen. politicians. the whole list. in other words. these also should be included in the list of the distinguished senator from arizona. all of them have had these abuses perpetrated on them during past administrations. republican and democratic alike. there is greater success story in the area of selfenforcement than our tax code. 99 percent of our citizens take it upon themselves to report honestly. when they do. they in effect give up some of their fourth and fifth amendment rights to enforce the law on themselves. indeed. the testimony given before the finance committee at this timei am talking  about before the distinguished senator from arizona or the distinguished senator from georgia were herewas that the degree of confidentiality was related directly to the amount of collections. in other words. if that confidentiality was destroyed. then collections would go down. that is the job of the irs. to collect taxes. and if indeed there is an ancillary purpose which e of us k about when we fill out our returns. then at least there ought to be the protection of a court.  just an administration. to those who think watergate was the story of richard nixon. i say forget about it. i am talking  both to the press and to my colleagues on the floor. watergate was government run amuck. this amendment puts us right back to square one. where those abuses took place wholesale under the former law. if there is an administrative hangup here. i stand to be corrected. but at least afford to senator jepsen and myself and all the rest of the people. afford us the protection of the courts. for whatever reason. for our opposition to the government. the author of the amendment can express himself. but i say at least give us a good reason before you look into my tax return. and do  have the validity of that determined by the attorney general and the secretary of the treasury. . i hope this amendment is defeated. and soundiy defeated. it deserves to be.
under existing law. the secretary of the treasury "may disclose in writing" return information -which is information the irs has obtained from third partiesto aher agency where there is evidence that a tax federal criminal law has been violated. the secretary has statutory .authority to disclose returns or taxpayer return informationwhich includes books and records obtained by the irs from the taxpayerunless aher agency has obtained an ex parte order from a federal district court judge. the standards for an ex parte order are based on standards similar to those established under the fourth amendment for the issuance of a search warrant. the justice department or any other federal agency seeking an ex parte order for disclosure must establish that: there is reasonable cause to believe. based on information believed to be reliable. that a specific criminal act has been committed. there is reason to believe that such return or return information is probative evidence of a matter in issue related to the commission of such criminal act. and the information sought to be disclosed can reasonably be obtained from any other source. section 134 of the continuing resolution would. for the first time. put the irs directly and affirmatively in the tax criminal enforcement business. it must be read in conjunction with the language in the committee report to fully appreciate its scope. in the committee report on the resolution. it is stated that: irs is  permitted by law to release information to any federal law enforcement agency that it obtains by analyzing tax return information indicating the commission of a tax crime . . . in the accompanying bill the committee has recommended language that would permit the internal revenue service to seek a court order to release such information to the appropriate law enforcement agencies. the committee directs the irs to aggressively use this new authority. if enacted and effective. section 134 read together with this report language. would completely negate the privacy safeguards contained in existing law. if. as directed by the committee report. the irs "aggressively use(s) this new authority." it would obviate the necessity of any other agency having to seek an ex parte court order to obtain information provided by the taxpayer that might constitute evidence of tax criminal violations. the irs would be required to spend its time in court initiating applications for disclosure of information obtained from the taxpayer. i might add that this effort would be undertaken at the expense of the irs efforts to collect revenues and enforce the tax laws. because the irs. and  the justice department. would be seeking the ex parte court order. the decision to grant the order compelling disclosure would be based on the standard contained in section 134 of the bill. and  on the standard required by current law. thus. an order would be granted simply upon a showing that the "information is material and relevant to a violation of federal criminal law." obviously. this is a much lower standard than the threeprong test in existing law. thereby undermining the privacy safeguards. this section would also hamper the irs administration of the tax laws. the secretary of the treasury is presently empowered to withhold information if he certifies that "disclosure would identify a confidential informant or seriously impair a civil or cirminal tax investigation." even in the presence of an ex parte order. section 134 contains such provision. thus. the secretary would be forced to sacrifice civil or criminal tax investigationswhich enforce the tax laws he is mandated to administerfor the sake of tax criminal investigation. in short. this section would make the irs a tax criminal law enforcement agency instead of a revenue collector. in testimony before the subcommittee on oversight of the committee on ways and means on july 30. 1980. irs commissioner jerome kurtz expressed opposition to authorizing the irs to seek an ex parte court order to disclose tax information. he stated that: the administration does  believe that there should be any affirmative duty on the irs to initiate a court order procedure to disclose returns of taxpayer return information to law enforcement agences. with respect to this information. the administration believes that the taxpayer is entitled to essentially the same protections that would exist if the taxpayer himself continued to hold the information. we believe that these protections are appropriate both because ours is a selfassessment tax system that depends substantially on voluntary compliance by taxpayers. and because individual taxpayers are entitled to a high degree of privacy protection in the records which they are required to maintain to meet their tax obligations. the administration believes that these interests are best protected by requiring any court order proceeding to be initiated by the department of justice under the disclosure standards 1 described earlier. a provision allowing the service to initiate a court order procedure to disclose taxpayer return information or tax criminal investigations would leave taxpayers in the dilemma of complying with the tax laws at the risk of prosecution for tax criminal violations. the use of the irs as a tax criminal law enforcement agency flies in the face of congressional intent. as ed in "a report to the steering committee for the internal revenue service project of the administrative conference of the united states." there is indication in legislative history that either the irs or the internal revenue code were meant to play any role in the enforcement of tax criminal law. in his letter to me. irs commissioner kurtz expressed the opposition of the treasury department to section 134 as follows: we have authority under section 6103 of the code to seek court orders to disclose tax returns and tax return information to tax related criminal investigators. accordingly. there could be occasion to use appropriated funds for this purpose. even if section 134 were legally effective. the administration opposes service initiated disclosure of individuals tax information. . that we will reject the amendment. the debate that  exists in my mind is whether i will object in a parliamentary sense that this amendment is legislation on an appropriations bill. and it is. but i do  think that is the way to approach this matter. i think it is up to every member of this body to stand up and saylook. it took 40 years to produce the tax reform act of 1976 and many more years of experience before that to produce the result that was that tax reform act. we are  going to throw it out the window in a lastditch effort by those espousing the cause of law and order. do you realize that more crime was committed in the name of law and order in the 1970s and in the late 1960s than in any other name. so i do  want to hear that term used on this floor. respect for the constitution and respect for individual liberties seem to me to be what should be the prime concern to each one. of us here. believe me the protections that are in the present act are entirely capable of assuring the proper enforcement of our tax laws while assuring the maximum collection of taxes while. at the same time. assuring that history will  repeat itself in this instance. and that americans tax privacy rights will be protected. i reserve the remainder of my time.
that is correct. that is all the amendment said.  the senator is saying. "i will be glad to vote for it as long as that enforcement role is one which i agree with." come on. the senator ks our constitution just as well as i do. he ks the whole intent of the three separate branches of government is that we maintain the independence of each and we do  make an incursion on each others responsibility which in effect detracts from the independence of each one of those branches. i k what is going on here and so does the senator from delaware. i stated at the outset.  1. this is  even a busing argument. it is a constitutional argument. it is a civil rights argument. busing is a nifty political buzz word and one that might incite passion and get votes or turn off votes. whatever. we find we have to make a choice  in picking against a constituency and reelection and defending this constitution. i do  think busing is such a hot idea as far as the state of connecticut is concerned. i k i am  going to tell the courts and i am certainly  going to go ahead and tell the justice department what it can or can do to protect the rights of all the citizens of my state. that is what is at issue. so i repeat as i stated at the outset of this argument. busing is a very convenient way to take attention away from the principal issue which is: if this type of legislation passes. then every time the justice and the court system does something that we do  like. we move in. but otherwise they can handle all the dirty problems that we shove out of our chamber. last. the senator mentioned the additional funding for education. that he voted for that every time. i have  taken a look to see exactly what the rollcall was. i also proposed an amendment which proposed a tax to go ahead and raise the money. i had support in the chamber. it is fine to say we are going to vote a little money here to go ahead and take care of this problem. but what about the taxes to pay for that.
. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment adopted this morning.  2277. be modified to read as follows: sec. 308. funds appropriated in any act to the department of education for fiscal years 1983 and 1984 shall be withheld from distribution to grantees because of the provisions of the order entered by the u.s. district court for thern district of illis on june 30. 1983. provided. that the courts decree entered on september. 24. 1980 shall remain in full force and effect.
. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment adopted this morning.  2277. be modified to read as follows: sec. 308. funds appropriated in any act to the department of education for fiscal years 1983 and 1984 shall be withheld from distribution to grantees because of the provisions of the order entered by the u.s. district court for thern district of illis on june 30. 1983. provided. that the courts decree entered on september. 24. 1980 shall remain in full force and effect.
. i do  want to see this country retreat to the circumstances of 1957. or 1960. or 1964. we have come too far for that. we have made too many gains. we have held out too many promises and given people a taste of their fulfillment. men and women in this country have risked their jobs to vote. they have risked their lives and the lives of their families for freedoms which are the birthright of every american. i believe that the 1965 voting rights act has been one of the most effective provisions ever enacted by the congress. it has done far more than any previous legislation to insure equal representation and participation in the political process. but its effects are  immutable. time is required for blacks to become accustomed to the exercise of political responsibilityand for whites to accept their participation. time is required for old customs to be changed. for people of all races and creeds to accept one aher as equals. i do  suggest that all this will happen if this law is enacted for aher 5 years. i do say that we will stand a far better chance of accomplishing this objective if there is opportunity for backsliding. if the present act is changed in any way. if the automatic triggering device of section 4. or the preclearance provisions of section 5. are allowed to expire. we will be back in the pre1957 situation which clearly was inadequate. the burden of proof will once again be on the victims rather than the actual perpetrators of the crime. we will enter a period of lengthy court litigation. of innumerable devious efforts to prevent people from exercising their constitutional rights. of intimidation and fear. good purpose can be served by such a course of action. a far better alternative is to adopt the scotthart compromise amendment. which would extend the 1965 act for 5 more years. and to add new titles to the bill as required. three such additional proposals are presently before us. one. of which i am a cosponsor. would abolish the residency requirement for voting in federal elections. this amendment. introduced by the distinguished senator from arizona
ial task force on womens rights and responsibilities. and for other purposes. s. 2748 at the request of mr. boggs. the senator from wyoming was added as a cosponsor of s. 2748. to amend the omnibus crime control and safe streets act of 1968 to provide benefits to survivors of police officers. prison guards and firemen killed in the line of duty. s. 2571 at the request of mr. mcgovern. the senator from wisconsin was added as a cosponsor of s. 2571. the rural development and population dispersion act. s. 2768 at the request of mr. humphrey. the senator from illis was added as a cosponsor of s. 2768. a bill to require the secretary of the treasury to provide each taxpayer with analysis of the proportionate dollar amounts of his tax payment which were spent by the federal government during the latest fiscal year for which data is available for certain items.
. i rise to support this amendment as a necessary tool if we are to enforce the discrimination provisions in the revenuesharing legislation. this amendment is hing unusual. we have specific legislation where attorneys fees are allowed in such areas as housing. employment. and education. these fees must be reasonable. and they are only awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction. if we are going to have this right of discrimination. as we should. in revenue sharing. then the only way for us to insure that the law will be enforced is to award reasonable counsel fees to plaintiffs who have been discriminated against. i certainly hope. and i think the senator from alaska has made a strong case. that the senate would sustain and uphold his amendment which. as i have said. is a vital tool if this legislation is to be effective.
s decision to veto the fiscal year 1977 laborhew bill. i am. however. pleased that the house has overridden the veto by a solid vote of 31293 and recommend that the senate follow suit. in making this recommendation. i am fully aware that this generally excellent bill does have an important defect. i refer. of course. to the restrictive hyde language on abortions. that language has place in this bill. and i fought hard to have it removed completely. i am convinced that the hyde amendment is unconstitutional and that the supreme court will so rule.
 carter in his revised budget for fiscal year 1978 proposed a package of increases particularly designed to provide services. with the exception of abortion. to young teenage women. secretary of hew califacalls this package of services "alternatives to abortion" and it includes the following: first. a $14 million increase for the community health centers program designed to "extend comprehensive services including family planning. health education. counseling. and outreach. with emphasis on reaching sexually active teenagers.". second. a $5 million increase for the national institute for child health and human developmentnichdto "develop better understanding of the physiological mechanisms involved in reproduction and mal prenatal development. third. a $2 million increase for the bureau of health education of the cen-( ter for communicable disease control for sex education research and demonstration and development and dissemination of information materials. together with a $2 million restoration of funds for the bureau cutback by the ford proposals. fourth. a $2 million increase for hews office of human development for foster care and adoption research. and fifth. a $10 million increase for title x family planning project grants. with particular attention to teenage services. the total amount for the entire administration package is $35 million. i welcome this proposal as an important gesture. demonstrating that. even in the early days of the administration. specific attention is being given to the problem of unwanted nregnancy and childbearing. this could indeed represent an important first step towards regaining the momentum of the family planning program which has been hampered since however. the administration proposals are seriously inadequate. the $14 million increase which the administration asked. and we granted. for the budget of the community health centers program would be earmarked. according to the budget plans. for family planning with emphasis on reaching sexually active teenagers. however. hew internal documents indicate that these funds will also finance prenatal care and maternity care services. therefore. it is unlikely that egh of this increase would be left to have much impact on the expansion of family planning services. in addition. the funds for community health centers have  been substantially increased during recent years. the $14 million increase represents only a 6.5 percent increase over the programs current budget of $215 mililon. hardly egh to offset inflation for the year. therefore. it is  realistic to expect that the community health centers would initiate new or expand existing family planning activities at the expense of other essential current health services to patients. two other proposals in the "alternatives to abortion" package are also inadequate. while a proposal to fund "research and demonstration projects related to sex education as well as the development and dissemination of information materials" is welcome. the federal government has  been very aggressive in its approach to this subject. and the $2 million allocated can begin to meet the need and stimulate sufficient activity around the country. likewise the $2 million for foster care and adoption research is also a minimal effort and represents. until only a few days ago. the administrations opposition to successful congressional proposals to supplement the costs of adontions and care for "hardtoplace" children. and most importantly. the major administration initiative requesting a $10 million increase in title x funds. the most successful family planning program particularly for teenagers. represents only a 10percent increase over this years funding level. this contrasts with the 13percent increase for family planning funds which congress passed for fiscal year 1977. a 10percent increase would be sufficient to offset inflation but it would be clearly insufficient to provide services to "an estimated 278.000 lowincome or teenage individuals" who. according to the hew budget papers "will benefit as a result of these additional funds." therefore. the size of the entire "alternatives to abortion" budget proposal is unrealistic. that is why i strongly urge that at least $140 million. the amount of the senate bill. be appropriated for title x family planning service project grants. training and information and education programs. this level of funding is still  adequate to provide family planning services for all who need them. but it does represent a more substantial effort toward fulfilling the promise congress made when it enacted title x to provide family planning services to all lowincome women than the level of the budget request or the house bill. and it does represent a true commitment to providing alternatives to abortion. to refuse less than the $140 million recommended by the senate will raise cynical doubts about our real commitment to providing such alternatives.
 saw otherwise. g. william miller has had obvious business experience of great magnitude. and i hope that the nation should fare well under his administration as chairman of the federal reserve board. i would just like to add that on the integrity question. i k the chairman has some reservations. particularly  that within minutes after the committee voted yesterday. the sec annced it was making certain inquiries into textron. but. as was said in the committee meeting yesterday. the sec is conducting inquiry into the personal activities of g. william miller. and i hope that hing in that investigation will throw any cloud at all upon the inee. i think it is important that the chairman of the federal reserve board be without suspicion as to his integrity. and as a result of our hearings i think he is above suspicion. insofar as his personal integrity is concerned. i think he would be seriously handicapped if he took this job with any cloud upon his personal integrity. and i think it is important to point out again and again that there was hing in our hearings. which lasted some 21/2 days. and that there was hing in the indepth and thorough investigation by our banking committee staff. which went to the integrity. the personal integrity of g. william miller. and i think it is important for the nation to understand that. because it would be a great injustice to  proxmire in the conduct of the hearings and the conduct of the investigation. in the fairness and in the equity. both substantively and procedurally. during the course of the investigations and the hearings. i support him strongly on the floor of the senate as i did in the committee. even though he has indicated that we are  together in our particular vote on this inee. i am sure. however. he hopes and prays that i am right and that he is wrong in this. as he has done on occasions before. when he has had occasion. because of strong personal convictions. to vote against a inee. i am sure he has always done so in the spirit that he would like to be proven wrong. and i hope this time that he is proven wrong in his judgment on the inee.
. i would just like to point out to my distinguished friend from virginia that even before we take out the $1 billion for fraud and abuse. we are below the budget estimates by $868 million. and below the house amount by $1.110.436.000. so we have been trying to do some of what the distinguished senator from virginia is attempting to do by his amendment. but i would agree with the distinguished chairman. and be willing to accept the recommendation of the senator from virginia.
. yesterday i outlined some of the reasons for opposing this legislation. beginning at page 13418. at page 13422 i referred to the fact that a capital gains proceeding was begun by the civil aeronautics board on i pointed out that the existence of a problem as to how best and fairly to deal with gains and losses upon retirement of the property of airlines. but i referred to the excellent comment as to the value of this proceeding before the civil aeronautics board made by vice chairman joseph p. adams. of that board. when he said: i consider this kind of proceeding the best approach to the problem because it looks toward a policy consistent with the scheme of the civil aeronautics act. fully supported by a complete ecoic record. and geared as closely as possible to the individual needs of the carrier. this capital gains proceeding has reached the stage of a prehearing conference and the report on that was served thirtythree airlines are parties to this proceeding. they are the ones still receiving subsidies from the federal treasury. it is of considerable significance that one of these airlines. pan american. has already received from the taxpayers of this country over onefifth of a billion dollars in subsidies in the fiscal years 193956-$219.768.000as set out in the table on page 13422 of yesterdays record. it is more significant that in the tabulation of capital gains prepared by the department of commerce as illustrative of the amounts which would have accrued to subsidized airlines in the 5 calendar years 195155. had this proposal been law. pan american would have had the lions share from the federal treasury. approximately $17.288.000 of the total of $21.900.700. this makes quite clear pan americans keen interest -in and vigorous efforts to secure passage of this proposal by congress. but it still leaves unanswered why pan american should be so concerned about permitting this civil aeronautics board proceeding to continue to conclusion unless it interprets the decisions of the united states court of appeals. which was unanimously upheld by the supreme court of the united states. as fatal to its efforts to avoid the necessity of establishing "need" under existing law. in order to get subsidy on subsidy. this seems more than likely in view of the fact that the civil aeronautics board has ruled consistently against pan american and other airlines in treating capital gains received from the retirement of flight equipment as other revenue under existing law and as thereby reducing claimed subsidy requirementssee anation 3 in order instituting proceedings. which i  include:
will the senator comment on the decision of the supreme court in the pollock case. in which the court held such a tax to be unconstitutional. and said that the direct effect of a tax of this kind would operate on the power to borrow before it is exercised.
in connection with the discussion of the sixteenth amendment i should  like to leave the record in the shape in which it  is. particularly in view of the formal statement of the.american bar association that it regards the proposal as unconstitutional and that proceedings should be by constitutional amendment. i wish particularly to call attention to the material which was before the house of delegates of the american bar association in march 1941. in which the following quotation was made from senator borah. who argued the issue on the floor of the senate and who was supported by senator ris brown. the author of the constitutional amendment. senator borah said: the words "from whatever source" add hing to the force of the amendment. it would. in constitutional parlance. be just the same if it said "to lay and collect taxes on incomes without apportionment." for who could then say that you would  have the right to lay taxes upon all incomes. the present taxing power would  be a particle stronger if it stated "to lay and collect taxes upon all property from whatever source." then. senator borah. who at that time was one of our great constitutional lawyers. said: to construe the proposed amendment so as to enable us to tax the instrumentalities of the state would do violence to the rules laid down 4ty the supreme court for a hundred years. wrench the whole constitution from its harmonious proportions. and destroy the object and purpose for which the whole instrument was framed. senator ris brown supported him. indeed i understand senator elihu root and professor seligman did likewise. the case has since come before the supreme court in several cases. and mr. justice hughes did  agree with gover hughes on the issue.
in the miity views of the special committee on taxation of governmental securities and salaries. presented by the senator from vermont and senator burke. after making their study of the situation. they included one statement which i think might appropriately appear in the record at this point. on page 1 of the miity views. part 2 of report g140. they said: the shocking argument that the sixteenth amendment. in effect. granted to the federal government what the department of justice itself is pleased to describe as the supreme power to tax the states is as unsupported by the facts and the history of its adoption as it is directly contrary to the decisions of the supreme court that rejected it when it was first suggested.
. if i may have the permission of the senator from michigan. i wish to add in respect to the point made and the quotation read by the junior senator from oklahoma a reference to about five lines from the language of chief justice hughes. language which makes a distinction which the senator probably did  make. the language appears in the decision in the case of james v. dravo contracting company (302 u. s. 134). a case decided in 1937. chief justice hughes said: there is ineluctable logicwhich means insurmountable logic. i did  k what the word meant. and i had to look it upwhich makes the doctrine of immunity with respect to government bonds applicable to "the earnings of an independent contractor rendering services to the government. that doctrine recognizes the direct effect of a tax which "would operate on the power to borrow before it is exercised." chief justice hughes then proceeds to quote from the pollock case. saying that when we tax the salary of an individual we are taxing the individual. but when we tax the interest on a bond. we are taxing the borrower. because it is the borrower who will have to pay increased interest on his bonds the next time he tries to borrow.
it seems to me that the statement the senator from illis made was in the nature of a suggestion that perhaps the constitutionality of taxing income from municipal bonds had  been passed upon by the supreme court. it has expressly been passed upon. the taxation of interest on such bonds has been held to be unconstitutional. and i believe the clearest way to bring that into the record is to quote briefly from an opinion delivered by chief justice hughes. in the case of willcuts against bunn. in 1930. in that case he referred briefly to the matter  under discussion. he first referred to a case in which a state had attempted to tax federal securities wherein it had been held by chief justice marshall that such action was an intrusion of the state government on the federal government. chief justice marshall had said: the right to tax the contract to any extent. when made. must operate upon the power to borrow. before it is exercised. and have a sensible influence on the contract. the extent of this influence depnds on the will of a distinct government. to any extent. however inconsiderable. it is a burden on the operations of government. * * * the tax on government stock is thought by this court to be a tax on the contract. a tax on the power to borrow money on the credit of the united states. and. consequently. to be repugnant to the constitution. that decision held that a tax by a state upon federal stock was unconstitutional. chief justice hughes then continued. reading from page 227. volume 282. of the united states reports. as follows: this language was applied by the court in pol7ock v. farmers loan & trust co.. supra (157 u. s. at p. 586). in holding invalid federal taxation "on the interest" from municipal securities. that was a unanimous decision rendered by the supreme court in 1895. and it stands unchanged to this day. it has been the law of the united states. as interpreted by the supreme court. that the constitution precisely prohibits a statute such as the one  being proposed by the committee on finance.
i have before me the opinion in the willcuts case. i read one sentence from the opinion by chief justice hughes. on page 227. after distinguishing the case before the court. he said: but it does  follow. because a tax on the interest payable on state and municipal bonds is a tax on the bonds and therefore forbidden. that the congress can impose a discriminatory excise tax upon the profits derived from the sale of such bonds. in the case before the court. chief justice hughes said that profits derived from the sale of such bonds might be taxed. but in reaching the conclusion he said: but it does  follow. because a tax on the interest payable on state and municipal bonds is a tax on the bonds and therefore forbiddenit seems to me that the opinion of the chief justice is clear. he thought that the pollock case was in effect. and that such a tax was forbldden.
i thank the senator from new york. i am aware of the interest the senator has taken in this particular problem. and of the bill he has introduced. i commend him for doing so. i appreciate deeply the senators assurance of support to the common effort we intend to make. i am sure my colleague will agree that the average citizen of america has idea whatever how limited is the federal power in this area. the average citizen would be shocked to realize that the federal government in most cases has power at all. so far as investigation is concerned. and particularly so far as prosecution is concerned. the average citizen thinks that anything which is a crime locally is a crime if conducted over state borders. this is  so. . there are limitations on the federal government in most areas. except for the specific ones for which legislation has been provided. as mentioned by my colleague from new york. that is an aid to law enforcement under the wage and tax laws. in both cases the federal government has to use the tax officials and  the federal bureau of investigation. the federal government has power of prosecution except with respect to the rather limited penalties under the two laws. my colleague from new york and i seek to make it clear that the federal government has a right to go into these areas. because we would specifically make federal crimes of these activities involving travel. communication. or transportation across state lines.
. as one of the neighbors of the senator from delaware. i rise to express great happiness that senator john j. williams will seek the ination. i am sure he will receive it. and i am also sure he will be reelected to membership in the u.s. senate. delaware is very much like the southern part of the state i have the ho to represent. and the long line of new jersey which is just across the river from delaware is populated by people who understand and k john williams almost as well as do the people of his own state. and i k they like him and respect him just as muchas we all do. i can add. perhaps. only one little statement of fact to what has already been stated by other senators. namely. that one is always very comfortable in dealing with senator john williams. for one ks he will get straight and honest treatment. i remember very well that when the du pont case was in the courts and when it became necessary to consider whether the tax laws should be changed. in order to permit the entry of a decree which would effectively carry out the decision of the court and at the same time  do harm to many thousands of persons. senator john williams was  happy about the first proposal the company made. and he said so. it was only after changes to satisfy him had been made in the proposed new legislation. that he approved it. when he did. i. for one. was very comfortable in supporting it. because i knew that. despite the importance of the du pont co. in his stateimportance which i. perhaps better than most other people. realized. because that company has a large plant in my own state. just across the bridgejohn williams was determined to do only what he believed right and good for the people of the country. as well as for the du pont co. it is because of the confidence that all of us have in him that his effectiveness is so great. the thought that he will be with us for aher 6 yearspotentially. longer than any of the rest of us on this floorwill make it possible for all of us. when tonight we return to our homes. to sleep more soundly.
the reapportionment decisions of the supreme court involve problems which have given real concern to me as they have to many others. ideally. the political question of how state legislatures are constituted would be much better left to the states themselves. but. in the face of obvious malapportionment resulting from population growth and shifts. many state legislatures have deliberately failed to act. and those affected have effective recourse other than the courts.
 of the united states and entering to the second phase of your visit when the congress and the american people may hear your views. i trust that you will find it appropriate to consider some views of a member of our legislative branch. i believe the effective participation by your country in every phase of the struggle between communism and freedom  going on in the world to be vital to success by the free world in it. undoubtedly you will take occasion while here to recapitulate for the american people the military and ecoic effort in defense of the free world  being made by the british people. an effort second in the world only to our own and the unity of interest of our two countries in this defense. it would be unrealistic to pretend that the conferences you have had are  portentous for the free world. indeed. the angloamerican cooperation with which they deal is strained at this time for reasons with which all are familiar and in view of the fundamental character of these reasons give concern for the future. it may be helpful perhaps for me to briefly state these reasons as understood by an american legislator. they are: (1) differences of policy with respect to communist china. (2) the position of great britain with respect to participation in the integration of europe. (3) reported differences of view with respect to a fourpower conference with the u. s. s. r.. (4) united states concern about the ecoic viability of great britain and great britains trade policy. and (5) great britians imperial relations policy ranging from iran and egypt to ireland. my urgent suggestion in the interests of seeing your mission benefit the whole free world is that the american people be approached in an atmosphere of exposition and practicality rather than with doctrine. the end point being that our people should become convinced that because great britains program for her own place in the world makes sense and has a reasonable chance of success it deserves backing. for this purpose they need to understand the whole program and the part of both peoples in it. this is required. first. by the fact that both our peoples are honest. proud. and worldly. second. that our peoples are blood brothers in a sense like a family in the same home and with the same responsibilities and that we want to live together king that between us there can be reservations and divorce if the free world is to survive. the american peopleas i have doubt also the british peopleare beginning to realize that the financial burden which we will all probably be facing for some years for extraordinary military expenditure could become impossible unless there was substantial expansion of the wealth base upon which it rests. this can best be effected. as far as great britain is concerned. by the intensive and accelerated development of the underdeveloped areas of the free world. great parts of which are either colonies of or administratively closely linked to great britain. in addition. the free world for its own defense needs vastly increased quantities of raw ma. terials which can be made available in this way. there is a deep feeling here that such development can move forward effectively or quickly egh without an effort extending beyond the resources of great britain or any other single major power in a similar position. and accordingly that this accelerated ecoic offensive should be cooperative. the cooperation of which i speak should be invited by great britain from the united states. the united nations. and from the international bank for reconstruction and development. it should be technical as well as financial. it would involve also a great increase in british productivity and replacement of obsolescent plants. it would be a "partnership of productivity" between the two peoples. it is this kind of a vigorous and constructive alternative if presented to the american people which i believe to offer the greatest likelihood of enlisting the support and backing that you seek here. cooperative effort in this direction answers also many other problems: first. the fact that indiges peoples will have the earliest opportunities for enjoyment of the new wealth created and for political independence. second. that the vital raw materials so developed will be available on equitable terms to the whole free world. and. third. that the markets for the industrial and agricultural products of the developed areas of the free world. which are created or greatly enlarged by this accelerated development program in the underdeveloped areas. will also be available on equitable terms to the whole free world. i am convinced that the people of the united states want great britain to be a catalyst in europe.  a lord over europe or a seeker after balances of power. also. our people want full self help and mutual cooperation so that we work together in such a way that each of us will contribute the most to the free world. our fundamental purpose is to offer help to other free peoples to the extent that they are willing to receive help at a given time forcing it on them. in short. we want to help peoples to help themselves. with full recognition of the fact that in todays world there can be tutelage and dependency. but that people are entitled to be free. independent. and to determine their own future. yours is a heavy responsibility. you are personally very popular in the united states. your government succeeds a government which aroused considerable concern as to the ecoic situation of your country in the minds of many americans. you are kn for forthrightness and courage in undertaking great alternatives. all these qualities are called for today. i k that you will understand the feeling of friendship for the people of great britain with which i have undertaken to endeavor to help in your thinking in respect to this mission. sincerely yours.
i should like to ask the senator from virginia. through the senator from texas. whether this is the bill which carries out or comes near to carrying out some of the recommendations of the select committee on small business. which go back to some of the supreme court decisions on taxes of small businesses for business within a state. although the business is interstate commerce.
 perhaps i did  make myself clear to the senator. i said i did  anticipate a filibuster. i think those who filibustered in aher day seem to have come around to the feeling that perhaps a filibuster is  such a good idea. perhaps the whole climate of the country and the senate has changed. this is an extremely hopeful sign of the times. i would wish to encourage it.  discourage it. hence. i shall make my statement as brief as i can. though. as the senator ks. other senators have sought the floor and have taken as much time as i have. i certainly hope every member of the senate will feel free to discuss this subject in any detail he wishes to. and i have every expectation that we shall come to the best conclusion possible within a very modest period of time. my colleague referred to a case. which gives me a good point of departure for this legal argument. that case was similar to the case of pirtle against brown. which was decided in the circuit court of appeals in 1941. and which upholds the constitutionality of the poll tax. so did the case of breedlove v. suttles. 302 u.s. 277. decided in 1937. a supreme court case. we are  here arguing that the poll tax is unconstitutional. it has been sustained as being constitutional. i regret to state. what we are arguing is that the u.s. congress can pass a law which would eliminate it. that such a law would be constitutional. and therefore a constitutional amendment to achieve the same purpose is unnecessary. moreover. in accordance with the traditional legislative practice and the republican form of our government. it is our duty to act by statute where that is proper. rather than seek the refuge of a constitutional amendment. . i have given my reasons for proposing this course of action. i should  like to give a few facts and figures. in the first place. the length of time taken to approve constitutional amendments. including the last constitutional amendment. and the very few constitutional amendments in our history which have been approved. is certainly a matter of the first moment by way of evidence. then. too. the requirements for the approval of constitutional amendments by so large a proportion of the legislatures of the states is a factor. also the fact of the evil of a poll tax and its restriction upon voting. which evil is sought to be reached. is a factor. it is so contrary to the concept of national policy that the country would  expect us to stand still if we can do something about it much sooner by statute than we could by a constitutional amendment. i should like to proceed  to the legal argument. because this is what it finally boils down to. and to start by pointing to the provisions of the constitution upon which i rely as demonstrating the constitutionality of such a statute. again i precede this analysis with the table of enactments by the house of representatives of antipolltax legislation. so called. in the form of proposed statutes passed on five occasions by the house of representatives. i ask unanimous consent that the table upon that subject may be included in the record as a part of my remarks.
 were members of the house of representatives during the period when these bills were voted on there. three of them always voted against the statutory approach. and two of them are from polltax states. four of them split their votes. but all four voted in favor of constitutionality. when that question was raised on a point of order in the 80th congress. twentyfour always voted for the statutory approach. as a matter of sustaining our own reputations for understanding what we were doing on all those occasions. and in order to do what i believe there is question that we should do. and to eliminate a real anachronism from our law. and especially in view of the recent decision of the supreme court of the united states and the clear evidence that the poll tax is a burden upon voting and is an obstruction to voting for federal officials. i believe it is high time that we demonstrate the degree of responsibility and decisiveness that is expected of us by the people who sent us here. by voting this as a statuteas should be doneand thus here and  end this anachronism in our law and this impediment to the enjoyment by all americans of fundamental constitutional rights.
i would rather  pass upon that question until the questions of exclusion and inclusion raised by the senaor have been dealt with in the debate. as i feel certain they will be. the question of constitutionality. which is involved in the statutory substitute i am offering. has been very much discussed. but i think constitutionality is firmly based upon a number of grounds. all of which are recited in my amendment itself. in which the congress finds as a fact that the poll tax is an attempt to interfere with the manner of holding elections and primaries. a tax on primaries. an abridgment of rights and privileges of citizens of the united states. a tax on such rights and privileges. an obstruction of the operations of the federal government. and an impairment of the republican form of government. this relates to the various elements of the constitution upon which i depend in urging the constitutionality of such an approach as this. the first question is: is the poll tax a qualification for voting within the language of the constitution. article i. section 2. which gives the states power. or is it a regulation as to time. place. or manner within article i. section 4. which expressly authorizes the congress to act. the word "qualification" has been defined time and again in the congress. interestingly egh. i find the most exact definition in a message sent by the gover of south carolina to his own legislature in 1947. urging the legislature to repeal the poll tax. in his message. the gover of south carolina said: there has been much misguided agitation about the poll tax as a qualification for voting. capacity. in accordance with the other constitutional provisions. to exercise the right of franchise should be the only qualification of an elector. in short. what the gover was really saying was that any kind of financial or property prerequisite for voting is  a qualification. he himself defines the word "qualification" as syymous with the concept of capacity. it seems to me that that concept is borne out by the cases. particularly the one case upon which the proponents of the constitutional amendment theory constantly rely. the case of breedlove v. suttles (302 u.s. 277). decided in 1937. there the supreme court refers throughout to the poll tax  as a qualification for voting--or. to use the words of the gover of south carolina. as relating to capacitybut as a "prerequisite of voting." i respectfully submit that treated as a prerequisite. as a condition precedent for voting. it falls far more within the time. place. and manner of holding elections. over which article i. section 4. of the constitution gives congress the power. than it does within the term "qualifications." over which article i. section 2. gives the states power. this is also borne out by other cases which have been decided by the supreme court under article i. section 4. but i find a very interesting reference with respect to it in the opinion of the attorney general of the united states. when he testified the other day before a subcommittee of the other body. in which the main thrust of his testimony was with respect to literacy. the attorney general. when he argued the question with respect to the poll tax. said that the statutory method for eliminating the poll tax was in his opinion just as valid an exercise of congressional authority as it was with respect to literacy. however. he said that the administration preferred the constitutional amendment approach. and so he said he preferred that method. but he said. as a basic and organic element of his opinion. that the statutory method for outlawing the poll tax was just as effective and valid as it was with respect to literacy. the cases which can be cited in support of that process go back to 1879. i refer to ex parte siebold (100 u.s. 371) in which there were convictions for jallotbox stuffing under federal criminal law. the convictions were upheld on the ground that congress has the power to assume the entire regulation of the election of representatives and may. as it did in that criminal election fraud statute. undertake only partial regulation. a very important aspect of that caseand it is true of a whole series of casesis the prollosition that under article i. section 4. state regulation applies only unless and until congress steps in. and then only to the extent that those state regulations are  superseded by federal law. so it is plain that federal law can be effective withstanding the fact that the supreme court has upheld the poll tax. the supreme court upheld a state poll tax statute in the breedlove case. to which i referred. cn the ground that it was  discriminatory on its face. the statute made distinctions as to women and certain other categories of voters who were exempt. but that was before congress stepped into the situation and. in terms of its own authority. there is a whole line of cases which holds that so long as congress does  assert its authority. state regulations may remain in effect and may. indeed. be constitutional without contravening the power of congress. when congress chooses to exercise it. i cite next the case of davis v. 0.120 (241 u.s. 565). which dealt with redistricting in that state. there. again. the supreme court stated that congress had the express power to prohibit the way in which redistricting had been done by the state so long as the congress chose to exercise that power. since the congress had  chosen to exercise the power. the court held. the state retained the power. a similar case was smiley v. holm (285 u.s. 355). in which the court stated that congress has a general supervisory power over the whole subject of congressional elections. the most convincing case in terms of the authority that we are discussing today is united states against classic. in which convictions were upheld under a federal statute prohibiting the denial of rights secured by the constitution for altering ballots cast in a primary election. the question was whether constitutional guarantees applied to primary elections. in that case. the court said. at page 310: such right as is secured by the constitution to qualified voters to choose members of the house of representatives is thus to be exercised in conformity to the requirements of state law subject to the restrictions prescribed by section 2 and to the authority conferred on congress by section 4. to regulate times. places. and manner of holding elections for representatives. and at page 315: while. in a loose sense. the right to vote for representatives in congress is sometimes spoken of as a right derived from the state [citations omitted]. this statement is true only in the sense that the states are authorized. by the constitution. to legislate on the subject as provided by section 2 of article i. to the extent that congress has  restricted state action by the exercise of its powers to regulate elections under section 4 and its more general power under article i. section 8. clause 18 of the consti. tution "to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers." madam president . it has also been arguedand quite properly. i thinkthat under present conditions the poll tax is an abridgment of the rights and privileges of citizens of the united states. one of those rights and privileges is the right to vote for federal officials. and it seems to me that the imposition of a tax on any such right is clearly an abridgment of the rights and privileges of citizens. it is argued that there were property qualifications in the states at the time of ratification of the constitution. and that they were  considered as anything other than the mal course of events at that time. but the difficulty lies in the contrast between the situation of the country then and the situation today. when the passage of time has made us feel that the voting right should  be encumbered either by a property qualification or by any financial consideration. and that congress can assert that the developments in our whole social order  result in making what may formerly have been considered tolerable as an institution. an encumbrance under present conditions and an abridgment of the rights of citizens to exercise their rights and privileges as citizens of the united states. and finally there is the constitutional provision--one  too often construedwhich relates to the duty of the federal government to provide for every state a republican form of government. it will be ed that in this discussion of constitutionalitywhich i repeat is mainly premised on the two points of the times. places. and manner of holding federal elections. which are clearly within the power of congress. and upon the obstruction of. or imposition of a burden on. the right to exercise ones rights and privileges as a citizen of the united statesthere is yet aher point. namely. the way in which the poll tax has worked to discriminate against negroes in the exercise of the voting right. so that congress has power to act under the 15th amendment. we do  have as much evidence on this subject as we have with respect to use of the literacy test as a means of discriminating in connection with voting. however. we are by means without evidence on this subject. for instance. it is very interesting to me to e that the senator from florida. in arguing in favor of his amendment. has always argued as a fact. and has given figures from his own state to show. that removal of the poll tax has had a material effect in increasing the number of voters there and also in increasing the number of those who seek to vote. i think that is a most important argument. and it is an additional plea in favor of adoption of this proposed constitutional amendment. but on the negative side. and in regard to use of the poll tax for purposes of discrimination. i should like to refer first to the 1961 report of the civil rights commission on voting. at page 162: a striking situation exists in one of the eight counties. issaquena. miss.. where negroes are registered to vote. a wealthy negro landowner and merchant pays more than $2.000 taxes annually to his county. and when bond issues are approved by the white electorate. he carries a large share of the flnancial burden. yet. he says. as consistently as he proffers his $2 poll tax along with his other taxes. it is refused by the collector. let us remember that in most of these states. the poll tax has to be paid long before the time to register and the time to vote. hence. the poll tax is a tipoff to the authorities that a particular negro may have decided that he wants to vote. and then all the machinery is set in motion to discourage him from what some in that area consider to be a very bad idea. madam president. in the testimony recently taken before a subcommittee of the judiciary committee of the other body in regard to the poll tax. there was evidence from two citizens of mississippi. and i should like to read part of that evidence. if i may. to my colleagues. because it gives some idea of how the poll tax is used. the chairman of the committee was addressing mr. smith. a witness:
the senator from montana has himself been a leader in this field. and is one of the copsonsors of this bill. while i am on this subject. neither the senator from pennsylvania  i have mentioned that there is in the bill provision for a federal advisory council on the arts. a very important aspect. this is a contribution of the senator from minnesota . it is really an administrative matter. as president kennedy had issued an executive order providing for such a council. the bill would provide legislative and statutory support for it. i express the hope that president johnson will promptly appoint the council. it would be auspicious if it were appointed under the terms of the bill. to sum up. the four major reasons why the bill should be passed are as follows: first. the grandeur and dignity of our nation are at stake. we are unique among the great nations of the world in  giving recognition to our artistic development. especially one which is so rich in this country. and which is recognized throughout the world. second. to assist in the growth and development of the arts. this is. after all. as george washington said. one of the fundamental reasons for our nation to exist as a nation. third. to give broad encouragement to the expression of american creativity and to our artists. when we remember that the total number of members of the actors guild is about 12.000. and that only 10 percent of that number. 1.200. have any kind of jobs at any one time during the year. and that that number has diminished by threequarters over the past decade. one begins to realize how important it is to promote creativity in the american arts. third. official recognition by our government of outstanding performances of merit in the arts. president kennedy. again in an act of great foresightedness. established a national award to give such recognition. therefore it is highly important that the nation should show it in its own activities. fourth. and very importantly. as an element of the whole aspect of the united states in the world. the russians and communist chinese are making tremendous "hay" in terms of impressing upon other peoples the fact that they sponsor such extraordinarily gifted organizations and artists as the bolshoi ballet. oistrakh. and others. while we operate our programs through the state department on an emergency appropriation. when we -have such great pride in our own helfetz. van cliburn. bernstein. marian anderson. rubinstein. and other great artists. this is a very important and felicitous day for me. august heckscher. the presidents special consultant on the arts. made this program the central theme of his report to the president. when the strike affecting the metropolitan opera house was settled by arthur goldberg.  an associate justice of the supreme court. he again made this idea the central theme of what the nation has to look forward to in terms of developing its arts. as to the money that is involved. the amount in the authorization is very small. but it can have a tremendous effect. i have estimated that for every dollar appropriated there is a multiplier of 5. thus producing $50 million of cultural activity for every $10 million appropriated. in new york state we have made an estimate. because new york state operates such a program through the new york state council on the arts. i am very proud of the fact that we have legislated such a program and that it is in effect. at this point i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a brief analysis of the respective state programs in the various states which are involved with various state councils.
i point out that the librarys calculations show an even greater disparity between the taxes paid by certain states and the aid received by certain states. most of them in the south. than the tax foundation chart which i previously submitted. again i point out that i come from a state which contributes generally about 19.3 percent of the federal governments taxes and receives about 6.8 percent of grants from the federal government in aid in connection with federal matching programs or programs in which states get aid. as a representative of my state in the senate. i state that we do  want our money spent for segregation in programs to which we contribute through the federal treasury and that it is my earnest duty to protest against it. finally. we have been confronted within the last 2 days in new york with a situation which is deserving of mention in connection with this debate. i refer to the fact that yesterday a story was published that the brooklyn chapter of core proposes to use the opening day of the worlds fairapril 22to stall automobiles by design on the principal highways of access to the fair and thereby create traffic jams. some aspects of this critical question have been debated previously. some senators have claimed that an effort was being made to coerce the senate by demonstrations and threats. other senators have pointed out that we can stop and have right to stop americans from exercising their privileges under the first amendment to express their grievances. provided they did so in an orderly and legal way. that does  deal with the frontal question. which involves. first. illegality. i would be the first to join with others in seeking to punish. if i had the authority of a judge. actions of illegality. there is excuse for illegal actions by anyone in this country. however. this does  deal with the question of public inconvenience.  does it deal with the excesses of police action. which we are trying to reach to some extent by the civil rights bill. or with the excesses of judicial action. bear in mind that the excesses of judicial action have gone to the extent of holding demonstrators in georgia for sedition. a crime punishable by death. this is light matter in that state. then to have the prosecutor state that the reason they were held for so serious a crime. withstanding the fact that undoubtedly it would  stand up in terms of a court proceeding. was in order to teach the demonstrators a lesson so that they would  be demonstrating again. here is the whole complex. therefore. of our problems which has brought so sharply and dramatically to the fore in this threat to the citizens of new york city by the brooklyn core. what has happened is most revealing as to what we have a right to look at in terms of eventuation of the situation. what occurred was that the national committee of the congress of racial equality--core. as it is popularly calledthrough its national director. 1964 co: james farmer. immediately repudiated the action of the brooklyn branch and immediately suspended it from membership in its organization. by authority of its national council. today. core has called a special meeting of its national council for the purpose of certifying their disapproval. this is a salutary action. because core is considered to be one of the most militant in the field of civil rights--allegedly more militant than the naacp or the urban league. the two oldest and more seasoned organizations. . people whose credentials are excellentand i believe mine are goodhave a duty to address themselves to this question. i happen to see sitting beside me a man for whom i have the warmest affection and whose credentials i believe are better than mine in this particular field. the senator from illis [mr. douglas 1and i am glad that he is in the chamber to listen to what i have to say. interestingly egh. to digress a moment. there was an item in the paper the other day that the leading negro magazine. ebony. which has a broad circulation among negroes. polled its readers to find out who were the 10 whites whom negroes trusted the most. at the head of the list was earl warren. chief justice of the supreme court. and other americans who have taken an active interest in this field. and i was hoed to be named one of the 10 persons in the country whom negroes most trusted. in view of my credentials in the field. i hope negroes in the united states will listen to what i have to say and will take it to heart. that would be the best kind of ho i could receive in this situation.
. the senator is referring to the breedlove case. which is constantly cited as authority for the proposition that states have the power to legislate a poll tax. but in the breedlove case. the issues to which i am  referring were  raised. the breedlove case essentially concerned the question of denial of equal protection of the laws by the georgia poll tax. which exempted women and those under the age of 21 even though people could vote at the age of 18 in that state. the court held that that was  an unreasonable distinction. therefore. it sustained the tax as against that challenge. it can be claimed fairly that it impliedly sustained the poll tax against the charges we are making against it. to do so the court would have had to go outside the argument of counsel and the facts of the case presented. it did  do so. furthermore. it is important to e that in 1937 the court obviously was  dealing with the frame of reference it began to deal with in 1954. the court. despite protestors and detractors. in 1954 found that the constitution was  a dead. but a living instrument. and reversed the holding of plessy against ferguson on the question of separate but equal educational facilities. it seems to me that the court is moving toward the view that it will abandon whatever implication might be drawn from its approval of a poll tax in 1937. and will  hold constitutional a federal statute which bans the poll tax on the ground that experience. in the light of the subsequent development of the constitutional issues. dictates that such a statute may lawfully be enacted by congress. that brings up a new point that i should like to mention. it seems to me that the factual finding contained in this amendment is a critically important point. if we adopt this amendment. we make that finding. i believe that we have placed egh evidence in the record to strongly support it. perhaps before we vote. we shall have even more evidence in the record and thus back up the fact that we are  proceeding in this situation without a basis in fact. but have a very solid basis in fact for our findings.
. i hope that the amendment will  be taken lightly by the senate. we have just fought a battle which resulted in a close vote of 49 to 45 on the issue of the poll tax. it is  outside the context of congressional history that we fight a great struggle. and then with an amendment which does  look very consequential. all the ground for which we had fought becomes eroded from under those who fought the struggle. that is exactly what would happen if we should be so unwise as to adopt the amendment. i make that statement for the following reason: we can compel the supreme court to decide a constitutional question on the ground that we told them to decide it. the supreme court is an autoous body. exercising the powers of the judiciary. and its authority is as sacred under the constitution as is ours. if the supreme court should proceed to find the poll tax unconstitutional on the grounds of the 14th amendment as well as the 15th amendment. we could . by the bill. stop them from making that finding. should we be so unwise as to adopt the amendment. we would restrict the kind of suit which the attorney general could bring. let us remember that the argument here and the effort to defeat the ban of the poll tax is based upon the proposition that we would obtain a generic decision much more quickly if we should let the matter stand as it isprobably with the addition of a finding. that is rather implicit in the whole argument. if we should let the question stand as it is. the attorney general would move into court. the attorney general would move into court. he would sue. and in one fell swoop the question would be presented to the court. we would then have a determination as to whether the imposition of a poll tax was or was  unlawful. if the amendment were adopted. all the attorney general could do would be to move into a case which involves the 15th amendment. namely. the denial or abridgement of the right to vote on the grounds of race or color. the attorney general would be required to start  one suit. but many suits. perhaps a suit for each political subdivision. in which the question of fact might be highly controverted. so the efficacy of the remedy which we were promised if we would defeat the ban on the poll tax would be promptly eroded. and would exist more. for all practical purposes. we would be exactly where we were before the leadership substitute was offered. we would end where we were before if we should adopt the amendment. why. to protect one statean hoable. sovereign. and great statethe state of vermont. i do  remember the population of vermont. but let us say it has a population of 11/2 million to 2 million.
on the same theory that we levy taxes within a state. and we do many other things within a state where the federal power is seemingly necessary. i am  arguing that we are going to do this. i am  telling the senator that it is unconstitutional. i am only pointing out what the senate would be doing. in this venture. in this field of law. which is a national police force enterprise. we could quadruple or quintuple the fbi and it will never meet the bill. i want to ask: do we want to embark on that kind of policy. i am  challenging the power. i am challenging the judgment. and hing else.
the reason for the amendment is that these are sensitive items in the cities and in other parts of the country. but primarily in the cities we should keep control of them. because we are in for a rough time. if anybody needs any proof it. yesterdays riot in memphis should be adequate confirmation of that. that is the entire purpose of everything i am trying to do. and the whole reason for it. the reason i was most regretfullybecause senator clark is on my sidecompelled to vote against the clark amendment was that i did  want to confine the area in which the president could cut further by some $30 billion in round figures. but i want to leave him as much latitude as possible. i should like to explain one point. senators will find on their desks an analysis of what my staff computed to be the amounts of the budget which would be protected. depending upon our appropriations under this amendment. there is an error in that. which i wish to state to the senate. it comes under the heading of "education." we failed to list under the heading "education" higher education and impacted areas. that adds to the aggregate amount of $6.177 billion. which is contained at the end of the chart. a figureapproximately $1.7 billionwhich increases it to $7.8 billion. i can correct my amendment.
what brought me to this. . can be compressed within $150 or $200 million. even if every amount were granted in full. it is this package. in my judgment. which can go farthest toward making the poor and the oppressed and the depressed in this country have a feeling that we are a government of justice and that where there is injustice. we respond. yet. as i said a moment ago. i face this absolutely brickwall attitude with respect to one of these itemsto wit. the appropriation for summer jobs
. i think we are  again demonstrating what a terrible mistake it is to legislate so serious a matter in this atmosphere. i wish to explain why. the power of the comptroller is contained in the budget and accounting act and it reads as follows: balances certified by the general accounting office upon the settlement of public accounts shall be final and conclusive upon the executive branch of the government. i shall read that again. because i think it is very important: balances certified by the general accounting office upon the settlement of public accounts shall be final and conclusive upon the executive branch of the government. one could say a certified balance. etheless. ran afoul of some federal law. it is very possible. the whole thing could be secret. the contractor may go into court and say that the balance may be final on the executive department but  on him. that is obvious. one has had a chance to read the case law. let us assume it is done. so that is where it stands . let us assume the contractor can go in and challenge it. it is binding on the executive department. but  we are giving him this power. page 15. line 14 reads: any contractor or agreement which the comptroller general of the united states holdsthat is a tough wordto be in contravention of any federal statute. i say that is  just binding on the executive department but everybody: the contractor. the executive department. the judicial department. and everybody concerned. in other words. you are really making fundamental changes in a broad and sweeping provision of law the authority which the comptroller general has . he has authority to hold anything according to the strict interpretation of the contract. maybe that enters into his decision when he refuses to certify. but here. if we give him that power. he can defy anyone. if he holds it to be in contravention. that binds everyone. the contractor. as well as the executive department. . my friends. this is a critically important difference. it is very important. a few sweeping changes can be made. i do  even argue against it. i just say. do  do it  hdre in this context. if you have already decided one of the questions in this section. at least throw an express protection to one of the coequal sections for the attorney general to challenge it.
. i want to take every opportunity i can to express my support when i do agree with him thoroughly. as i do in this case. i have supported this convention from its very inception and have worked for its resubmission and ratification for the past 2 years. i am a member of the committee on foreign relations. i shall make every effort to bring about the earliest possible consideration of this treaty. it is in keeping with the humane and just outlook of the united states which is so traditional with us as a people. without cupidity or designs upon others. but with a deep passion for humanity and justice in the world. i think it is a strange aaly that we have been among the last. rather than the first. to ratify this treaty. i hope we will repair that blemish and pay our debt to mankind at the earliest possible moment.  that the geide convention has become an active subject of consideration again as a result of the nixon administrations initiative.
. we must take immediate action to both fill the manpower shortages in our nations solidwaste and resourcerecovery activities and to eliminate the artificial job and skill requirements that restrict the opportunities for employment and upward mobility of lowincome and unemployed persons otherwise qualified to fill these manpower shortages. the amendment i am introducing today is a major step in this direction. it does more than simply authorize funds for manpower training in these vital areas. it also authorizes an investigation of our manpower training needs in solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery. it is deplorable that even though the business of getting rid of our nations solid waste is the nations third highest municipal expense. we do  even have a sophisticated idea of the number and type of personnel and manpower training programs needed to operate it. in addition. my amendment authorizes the secretary to encourage program relationships with industry that would enhance the success and relevance of education and training programs for persons preparing to enter an occupation involving the design. operation. and maintenance of solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery facilities. the relevance of all future manpower training and education programs in the field of solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery will depend on the coordination of manpower training programs with both the industries developing the products that present the greatest solidwaste problems. and the industries developing new techogies to deal with these problems. the techogies and managerial skills of the business world are crucial to the planning and design of inative and comprehensive systems for solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery. specifically. the amendment i am introducing today wouldfirst. authorize the secretary of health. education. and welfare to submit to congress the results and recommendations of a complete investigation into the need for additional trained state and local personnel to. first. develop and maintain solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery activities. and second. carry out the manpower training programs assisted under or for the same purpose of the bill. second. authorize the secretary to provide funds to institutions of higher education and to profit organizations for projects designed to first. train persons for occupations involving the design. operation. and maintenance of solid waste and resource. and second. train persons. including teachers. adult basic education personnel and supervisory personnel. to train or supervise persons in occupations involving the design. operation. and maintenance of solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery equipment and facilities. * third. authorize the secretary to carry out occupational training projects which involve a combination of training. education. and employment in the operation of solidwaste disposal and resource recovery equipment and facilities. fourth. authorize the secretary to study the extent to which and manner in which. artificial barriers to employment and occupational advancement in the solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery field restrict opportunities for employment and advancement in such field. fifth. authorize the secretary to. first. develop and promulgate guidelines. based on the latter study. designed to eliminate artificial barriers to employment and occupational advancement in solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery activities and. second. to provide technical assistance in complying with the guidelines. sixth. require that all programs must. as a condition for funding. provide procedures for fiscal control. fund accounting. periodic evaluation by an agency independent of the program and compliance with program guidelines developed as required by the amendment. seventh. authorize the secretary to encourage business with operations or products in the solidwaste disposal and resourcerecovery field to participate in and cooperate with occupational programs established with the assistance provided by the training amendment. eighth. authorize the secretary to disseminate information which relates to outstanding teaching and training methods. materials. and curriculums developed by projects assisted by the bill. public attention recently has focused on the crisis our nation faces in the disposal of the more than 200 million tons of solid waste processed each year. one wants garbage. but everybody produces it. the question is. then. what are we going to do about it and who is going to do it. this question and other crucial questions of our solidwaste management crises deserve solid answers in terms of money and trained manpower. the rapid expansion of our techogy and ecoy. which creates the evergreater volumes of waste and the evergreater problems of proper waste disposal. also offers the hope of solving these problems. we have the techogy and the managerial skills to solve our solidwaste problems. what we do  have are the funds and the skills to train the necessary manpower to utilize them properly. in 1968. according to a study completed for the urban coalition. there was a total deficit of 13.586 personnel in the sanitation programs and 1.748 personnel in the antipollution programs in 130 of our nations cities with 100.000 or more population. today. new york city alone needs. to meet its present solid waste disposal schedules. an additional 2.125 unskilled personnel and 450 skilled personnel in its solid waste disposal programs. by 1974. new york city. according to plans developed to deal with its solid waste disposal emergencies. will have almost to double the number of its incinerating facilities. in light of this fact and the fact that the citys solid waste production rate is increasing 100 percent yearly. it is obvious that new york city. as well as other cities. will be confronted in the near future with significantly greater manpower shortages. the problem is formidable and critical especially when we consider. in light of our nations unemployment crises. that approximately onehalf of the vacancies that exist in sanitation and antipollution programs could be filled by persons without professional or advanced technical training. adding to this problem is a lack of the job analyses and reevaluation of skill requirements necessary to improve job prestige. merit system coverage. possibilities for advancement and public acceptability. this further restricts both the employment opportunities of the lowincome and unemployed person and the efficient use of personnel in the field of solid waste management. these employment factors can be iged for they. in concert with training programs. determine in the last analysis the availability of trained manpower at the point of need for our nations solid waste disposal resourcerecovery activities. the committee in question is going to mark up the bill tomorrow. the amendment has considerable interest in it. and i hope very much it will be adopted and be a part of the bill which will be reported by the committee. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be printed as a part of my remarks.
. i think what the senator from maine and the senator from kentucky are trying to do is elemental justice and a recognition of the adulthood of the states which have major urban problems. we have heard a great deal about that. and we have heard also of the grave problems which we have encountered in doing something about it. as we did in the revenue sharing bill which we fought so bitterly here. when the opportunity comes along to give a state an option and let it engage in selfdetermination. it should be done. the colloquy of the senator from maine has made this crystal clear. there is a real inducement. at least in this way. to give the urbanized states at least an opportunity to choose how they should spend the money made available to them in the best interests of their people. i feel deeply grateful to the senators who are from great populated urbanized states for this initiative. i shall certainly support the amendment.
i join the senator in this amendment and i would also like to join him in pressing for action on it. i will  be redundant in that regard. but i would like to add two facts: i think it is very strong and very persuasive that apparently the figures upon which the committee relied. without blaming anyone. do  really reflect the situation. the new figures are before the committee in this amendment. therefore. there is an equity for making a determination upon new figures. i believe senator buckley has made that case very strongly. i do also wish to add one further point from my own experience. i was an attorney general of new york. and as attorney general it was my duty to defend writs of habeas corpus and other proceedings started by prisoners of our correctional institutions. it was an unbelievable load of work. referring to the attica situation. which is in this area. attica. which was such a traumatic experience for new york corrections and the new york prison situations. engendered an emous body of litigation out of the prisons. having handled that kind of action myself for the 2 years that i was attorney general. and king the attica situation firsthand and what it stimulated in the principal correction institutions of the state. i really submit that it has added an extremely material fact occurring in this area of our state. . of course. this is a very long period of years. almost 70 years. since anything has happened in this particular area. with a population growth of 1 million. and a tremendous stimulus also in business activity incident to the improved means of transportation from canada and the intense industrialization of canada. which has engendered a comparable industrialization in the thern district of new york. for all of those reasons. and in view of the very excellent statements made by my colleagueand i thank him so much for carrying the ball with this particular amendmenti believe that it really justifies a reconsideration by the committee. which i hope it will have.
the senator is very kind. i realize our situation. i feel very deeply about this amendment. as does my colleague and all of the cosponsors. i am moved by two reasons to go along with this amendment to the amendment. one. i believe it does represent a recognition of the justice of our position. and for that i am very grateful to the senator from california and the senator from vermont. second. we find a very wide disparity in the estimates between the veterans administration and the congressional budget office. this will give us an opportunity. authoritatively. to deal with that disparity. i am rather stunned by it. we have an estimate from the veterans administration for $3.5 million. and an estimate from the congressional budget office of well over $150 million. but that is life here in the congress and we will resolve it. the senator is offering us a way in which it can be resolved. may i say one other thing.  one single state has taken advantage of the state matching provision. so i think really while it is well intentioned it simply has  worked. the congressional intent with respect to acceleration of benefits by gis has  been realized. i hope there is egh justice in our cause so that we have a good chance to get relief next year with the authorization on the books. again i repeat. i thank both senators very much for trying to facilitate what we have in mind with this amendment to the amendment. it is acceptable.
