yes. i can understand that what the distinguished senator from nebraska has said is a result of some of the cases which have come to his attention from his state of nebraska. but the purpose of the socalled brooke amendment was to place a ceiling of onequarter of a tenants income for public housing. this was universally applauded by tenants who are living in public housing projects. across the country. it was particularly of benefit to the elderly. because the elderly are living on fixed incomes in most instances. and have been. in many instances. paying more than 25 percent of their income for rent. the distinguished senators amendment. even though it is narrow in scope and would apply solely to the elderly. and only in cases where there are 200 dwelling units or less. would affect approximately 500 housing projects across the country.  only in the state of nebraska. but in the states of new york. arkansas. maryland. and massachusetts as well. i can certainly appreciate and applaud that some few of the elderly may think that. because their children are contributing to their support. therefore they do  need and do  want help from the federal government. that is commendable. but. in the main. that is  the case. many of these elderly persons are living in public housing projects. paying out 30 to 35 percent and more of their income for rent. which leaves them only a pittance for food. for any sort of recreation. or anything else that they might have to spend their money for. so i would have to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from nebraska. i. for example. have received numerous letters from across the country from persons who have been benefiting by this amendment. i shall read just one or two. and ask to put some others in the record. one comes from a dear lady who says: i want to thank you. and appreciate for reducing the rent in the federal housing for the senior citizens.  i will be able to buy things. for which i was unable to do on my low income. i have so much to be thankful for what you are doing for me and all the senior citizens. thank you. this letter is signed by mrs. gertrude marcus. who is from my state: suffolk ma. malden. mass. but aher ladyand i think this is an important lettersays: dear senator: my name is mrs. edith bethel. and i just had to write. to say very humbly. thank you. i have just received my official ice of a reduction in my monthly rent from the brickenwood housing authority where i live. my husband. 78 years old. passed away last february. which of course left me with a reduced income. i will be 81 years old come sept. and i have never asked for charity in my life. we had children to help out. and after a married life of 47 years i was alone. left with small amount of savings having used up some 4500 dollars during his illness and a little bewildered. thanks to your foresight. i can manage . at last something has been done for people who have honestly tried to help themselves all their lives. without being parasites on the cities and towns where they live. my name means the house of god. may you dwell in it forever. sincerely.
. that is  subject to appropriations. but if we have problems with our ecoy. congress can always change that. i agree with the senator. we do have some serious problems. but do we want to take this away from the elderly and the poor people who are living in public housing projects and paying 30. 40. and 50 percent of their income for rent. that is the question.
. i will to approach that goal. we must avoid the be calling up an amendment to the pendexpenditures of community development ing bill. s. 3066. dealing with income ceilfunds to meet every social need. however ings applied to section 402 and section pressing. therefore. at my suggestion. the 502 programs. which are commonly committee limited the amount of com- kn as the sections 235 and 236 homemunity development funds which may be ownership program and the rent assistspent on public service programs. such as ance program  in effect. these health. education. and law enforcement amendments are cosponsored by senaprograms. which should be funded tors javits and brooke. through departments other than hud. first. however. i wish to commend the we have also refused to permit these distinguisted chairman of the commitfunds to be used to finance costly city- tee on banking. housing. and urban wide capital improvements such as li- affairs and the chairman of the subbraries and city halls. this money. lim- committee on housing ited as it is. should be used to rehabili- for what i think is a splendid and realtate older. declining areas and to pro- istic housing program as embodied in vide for the resources needed to assemble s. 3066. land and prepare the sites for new. viable the committee. under the chairmans neighborhoods. leadership. has for many years 1ud this king that "hardware" alone will country in its understanding of the needs  build a viable community. the con- for decent housing and in urging the mittee believes that local units of gov- country to fulfill its commitment. made ernment should coordinate other federal years ago. that all americans should be programs with their own resources to de- accorded the opportunity of living in velop a community which is physically decent housing. in a decent environment. and socially complete. in recent years. that opportunity has the watchword of our day is "crisis." become increasingly complicated as the mimicking. and at the same time sug- administration has resorted to impoundgesting. a headline. the speaker labels his ing. and then. on occasion. risking illegalsubject a "crisis" and calls for emer- ity. resisting existing law. and resisting gency measures. this practice has been the expenditure of appropriated funds with us so long that the phrase "housing to fulfill this fundamental need for decrisis" almost evokes a feeling of tal- cent housing in this country. gia. today we do  have a recession. we yet the fact remains that our 25year- have a housing depression. so it is even old goal of a decent home and suitable more essential that we pass this housing living environment for every american bill and that we make certain it is a family is just that for eight million fam- sound bill. one which will achieve the flies--a goal.  a reality. objectives which i think the nation overwe can be proud that a majority of whelmingly demands. americas families are well housed. we one of the key provisions is that found have moved a long way down the road to in sections 402 and 502. dealing with achieving our national goal of a decent homeownership assistance and rental home for every family. today we renew assistance. they are two of the main our commitment to persevere until all of programs by which. since 1968. we have our children. all of our elderly. all of our sought to produce the housing needed lowincome families. urban and rural. in this country for low- and moderatehave a decent place to live. income families. who can obtain such the bill which the senate will consider housing in the conventional market. is a most effective demonstration of our my amendment would strike the words resolve to persevere until our goal is met. "80 per centum" where they appear on i commend the chairman for his leader- lines 12 and 16 of page 58 and on lines 1 ship and assiduousness in seeing the bill and 5 of page 76 of the bill. in place. there through less than 26 markup sessions. would be inserted the term "90 per cenhis dedication to the cause of improved tum." these two changes would be made living conditions for all our citizens has to section 402 and 502 of the revised naagain been the prime moving force in tional housing act set out in chapter 1 getting a housing bill written. the rank- of the bill. in effect. the changes would ing miity member. the senator from set the maximum income limit. for elitexas. and committee members also de- gibility under these two housing assistserve credit for the spirit of cooperation ance programs. at 90 percent of the median income for a given area. instead of the bills proposed 80 percent. the original bill. as introduced by the distinguished senator from alabama
 of the committee on banking and currency stated that there had been a great many more homes built in 1947 than in 1946. those of us who live in bigcity districts as well as many in littlecity districts k that though true. it was just about half what was needed. about 850.000 homes were built in 1947. but it still left us with an actual shortage that year estimated at several million homes. certainly short of what should have been produced from an emergency building of homes in 1947.  less than a million and a half homes is what we should have had. so that although many homes were built.  nearly egh were built compared to what was needed. i realize there is opposition in the house to any kind of comprehensive housing bill like the taftwagnerellender housing bill. but nevertheless we ought to do everything we can do within the confines of the type of legislation we have already passed. to stimulate the channeling of building materials and labor to housing construction. as distinguished from amusement and recreational construction and commercial construction. commercial construction amounts to a great deal more than amusement and recreational construction. i have the figures here before me. in 1947 we built $883.000.000 worth of commercial construction. and for the first 2 months of 1948. $176.000.000 of commercial construction. that is stores. warehouses. lofts. commercial fronts. we have all seen how many stores are getting new commercial fronts adays. you can be sure that they could live very well without them and still do their business. it involves office buildings. garages. and similar construction. here is an emous amount of money which is being spent in construction. some part of whichperhaps  all of iti have interest in stopping the business of the nationthat would be foolishbut some part of it could be saved in construction materials and labor which could be used for housing. you will e that my amendment is very specific. first. it confines the determination of the housing expediter to a specific geographical area. second. that the permit which is sought in order to warrant denial has to materially interfere with the construction of necessary residential housing which would then otherwise be constructed in such area. in other words. if the expediter finds that the labor and material are directly useful for increased residential housing construction in the particular area. then and then only has he the right to deny a permit for commercial construction. i think if we really mean what we say. that we intend with the means at our disposal in the bill before us and in every other way we can to see that residential housing construction is expanded. this is one way in which we can help to the tune of a billion dollars a year to help that residential housing construction program.
. all agree that the housing shortage is still acute. the proponents of the taftellenderwagner bill contend it will be the best means for dealing with the housing shortage and for establishing a national housing program for the next 10 years. while its opponents. including those in the house. have made three contentions: first. all the available men and materials for housing construction are already being utilized. second. private industry is building egh to meet the .emergency. and. third. the tew bill will have an inflationary effect. it will be useful to answer these points in turn: first. that present housing construction is already utilizing all the men and materials available. this contention will  stand examination because while private residential construction in the first 6 months of 1948 totaled $3.100.000.000. residential construction and public construction totaled $3.600.000.000. of this amount. $1.650.000.000 of commercial construction was  alone for factories but was for stores and offices. -many of which we could well do without. furthermore. social and recreational construction alonethe bowling alleys and the swimming pools and race tracksreached a volume of $80.000.00 in that periodan increase of 110 percent over the same period in 1947. the materials supply situation has been improving very markedlyfor example. at the end of may 1948. stocks of hardwood flooring were two and onehalf times what they were in 1947 and stocks of oil burners five and onehalf times. there are still shortages of castiron soil pipe. nails. cement. and steel. but as to these i have already pointed out the largescale diversion of men and materials to essential construction. the manpower situation has also improved very markedly. and effective argument can be made of shortage of manpower in view of the large amount of residential construction still going on. in 1947 the congress took off the controls on commercial construction. and in 1948 on social and recreational construction as well. tables bearing out these points follow at the end of these remarks. the uncontrolled building of such structures at a time of great national emergency in housing can hardly be understood by any veteran who risked his life for his country during the war and who. 3 years after the war. is still living doubled up with relatives. the tew bill is also criticized because it will put the government in the housing business to compete for scarce men and materials. but it will do hing of the kind. it provides for only a maximum of 100.000 units of public housing per annum. this is 10 percent of present housing construction and would be 71/2 percent of the construction expected under the tew bill. that is the least which can be done to bring a share of the new housing within reach of those in the lower income brackets who need it most. tew will reduce costs and accelerate private construction. it will  compete with it. second. private industry is doing the job. even if this were true. it is a fact that the housing produced is  within the price range. either for sale or rental. of those in the middle- and lowerincome levels who need it most. the average price of a home around new york city is $13.000. veterans generally can pay more than $6.000. housing starts in june 1948 decreased about 4 percent from those in may 1948.  less than 30 percent of the housing construction in the country was done prior to march 31. 1948. under mortgageinsurance provided by title vi of the national housing act. it is freely predicted even by realestate interests that 100.000 additional home units will be lost this year because title vi went out march 31. 1948. and it is estimated that total housing completions this year will  be much more than 900.000 units. in the face of an immediate demand from two to four million veterans living doubled up with relatives. an answer from the housingconstruction industry is hardly business as usual. third. it is said that the tew bill would be inflationary in its effect. this must be premised on the absolute expenditure involved. commitments under the tew bill are a maximum of $160.000.000 of subsidies per year with a total of $1.610.000.000 to $2.610.000.000 of insurance authorization. and $1.310.000.000 to $1.560.000.000 of revolving loan funds generally considered collectible. there is general agreement on the united states being committed for the insurance authorizations whether or  tew passes. that leaves a maximum of $160.000.000 yearly in subsidies. there is such outcry. however. as meets this expenditure for housing lowerincome families. when it comes to aiding certain special interests. it is. therefore. interesting to compare the expressed fears of inflation due to a housing bill with the following appropriations made by the eightieth congress: rural electrification --------- $636.0o0.030 soil conservation ------------ 203. 000. 000 aaa farm support program-- 265.500.000 reclamation projects -------- 156.000.000 flood control. rivers and harbors -------------------900. 000. 000 federal aid to highway construction ----------------- 1. 147.000. 000 foreign aid and the erp --- 7. 000.000.000 total ---------------- 9.301.600.000 certainly any expenditure at a time like this is inflationary. yet any one of the great expenditures i have mentioned could certainly  rate superior to housing. the inflationary effect of the tew bill. such as it is. is  the fault of housing but of our overall general responsibilities. how can it be said to be inflationary to build permanent assets like homes as against farm support payments that will go in the banks as money where there is already plenty of money. housing in order to meet a basic emergency is an elementary need of the american people. and certainly should  be discriminated against. to sum up. first. the tew bill remains the only comprehensive housing bill before the congress. it is the only bill which to the country will mean a sustained longrange construction program to meet its housing needs. as well as a prompt start on a broad egh scale to really help in the housing emergency. second. private industry is  doing. and can do. the job of meeting the emergency all by itself. and the worst thing which is happening to the privateconstruction industry in its effort to meet problems greater than its capabilities is the way in which it is earning public disapprobationthe housing industry ought to be out fighting for tew. finally. in a monetary sense. housing is more inflationary than rural electrification. soil conservation. flood control. and aid to highway construction. it is at least as important. if  more so. than these activities.  can we say that anything is inflationary that adds to the real assets of america with the tangible values which are added by housing. the shortage of men and materials is an excuse.  a reason. for we are diverting a big part of the men and materials available for construction to residential construction. including social and recreational. the tew bill. promising a sustained production program of homes for 10 years at least. will naturally bring in its wake a great broadening of the production of construction materials and the entry of many thousands of additional workers into the industry because of the security and stability which it will afford. there is substitute for the tew bill and for the acceptance of national responsibility for the peoples welfare which it implies. table 1.-value of new construction put in place. by type. first 6 months of 1947 and (millions or dollarsi first 6 monthstypeof___________ percent type of construction change total new construction- $7.684 $5.077 +35.4 total private -------------- 6.064 4.432 +36.8 residential building (form) ------------ 3.100 1.935 +60.2 residential building (farm) ------------l 1.651 1.504 +9.8 social and recreational --_---_------ 80 38 +110.0 industrial. commercial. and all other.- 1.571 1.466 +7.2 farm construction -------- 200 160 +25.0 public utilities ........... 1.113 833 +33.6 total public ----------------- 1.620 1.245 +30.1 source: bureau of labor statistics and u. s. department of commerce. table 2.-production of construction materials. composite index. by month for the years 1946. 1947. 1948 [1939 monthly average= 100] year month 1946 1947 1018 january -------------------- 89..5 124.6 1.5 february -------------------- 87. 2 124.0 121.5 march ----------------------- 109.1 132.7 140.3 april ------------------------ 120.4 138.2 142.9 lmay ----------------------- 129.3 141.2 145.7 june ---.-------------------- 129.2 139.7 -------july ------------------------- 134.6 142.8 -------august -----------------147.0 147.6 ------september.--- --- .. ... 142. 1 149. 1 ------october --------------------- 150. 8 159. 0 ..... ember ....---------------- 139.5 139. 6 -------december ------------------- 125.9 136.5 ..... e.-this composite index includes 20 materials. source: u. s. department of commerce. table 3building materials in short supply as reported by field offices of the federal housing administration on september 1. 1947. and july 1. 1948 number of offices reporting shortages materials as of asof sept. 1. july 1. gypsum products ....------------- 41 31 hardwood flooring ---------------- 21 4 m lillwork ------------------------- 32 14 iron and steel pipe --------------- 29 23 plumbing fixtures anti naterial ... 32 16 castiron soil pipe ---------------- 14 +16 nil s ---------------------- 21 +23 emectrical products ---------------- 10 2 sheet metal ------------------- 14 6 felt ------------ ._-------------- 12 2 wood siding --------------------- 8 5 finish lumber -------------------- 8 3 plywood -----...............---- 3 0 hlardware-.--.--------------------- 4 1 plaster and materials ------------- 8 2 heating equipment ............... 4 1 cement -------------------------- 4 +7 steel ------------------------- - --4 +9 other ---------------------------- 23 21 source: federal housing administration. table 4.-labor causing construction delays because of short supply as reported by field offices of the federal housing administration on september 1. 1947. and july 1. 1948 number of offices reporting shortages type o1 labor asof asof sept. 1. july 1. bricklayers ----------------------- 39 30 plasterers ------------------------ 30 23 carpenters ------------------------ 17 6 plumbers ---------------------- 15 10 electricians --------------------- 6 2 painters -------------------------- 4 2 other skilled labor ---------------- 12 9 common labor -------------------- 5 3 source: federal 11ousing administration. table 5.-changes in proportion of construction workers employed in private residential construction. by month. january through june 1948 estimated percent primonth (1948) number (in vately financed thousands) new residential construction january --------------- 1. 870.9 45. 7 february ------------ 1.730.7 41.9 mfarch .--------------- 1.804.9 37.1 april -----------_--- - 1.966.4 36.8 may ------------------ 2. 049. 0 36. 1 june ---_------------- 2.182.0 36.9 iprel i inary. source: bureau of labor statistics.
 of the committee on banking and currency say that this housing program for the lower middle income groups. may be a good idea. that they will be thinking about it. . that is adequate assurance. i had expected far more from them than that. i had expected at the very least that they would say in response to this bolton substitute "gentlemen. we understand the problem. it is a very real and pressing problem. the moment we dispose of this housing bill we will take care of that next and do our utmost to bring to the floor for a vote at this first session of the eightyfirst congress housing relief for the lower middle income groups."
we certainly made egh provisions in the law. i think we have much too liberal provisions in this law to see that landlords get a fair rental for their property. that is. if they endure a hardship. we have even gone to the extent. which i think is too far. of saying if they operate at a loss within a certain figure of net operating income their rents will be increased. certainly. i think much more than a reasonable balance in favor of the landlord is being struck between the national housing emergency and private ownership of rental housing. the government has taken a hand in the situation due to the emergency. but it has  taken a hand. and i do  think anyone would be able to sustain that position. 0 to the point where it has compelled the landlord to subsidize the tenant in order to meet this particular situation.
 of the committee. i have been recently in puerto rico. where i made a lincoln day speech. and had a chance to look over conditions on the island. they have a large amount of surplus workers. many of them agricultural workers. in new york city we have had a movement from puerto rico of roughly 50.000 a year for the last few years and housing conditions as well as ecoic opportunity should certainly be opened up throughout the country for these hardworking citizens who have come to the mainland to seek greater opportunity. may i ask the gentleman whether any real effort has been made to seek to employ these american workers with excellent agricultural skills for this kind of work.
 establishing a program for moderate income housing. such housing is vital to national wellbeing. and i am deeply concerned by the alarming reduction in residential housing starts generally. however. i can agree fully with the statement made by the able junior senator from pennsylvania when he introduced the bill the senator from pennsylvania said that "the federal government provides a wide range of housing assistance for higher income familieswho actually need it least." the term "higher income." just as "middle income" or "lower income." is strictly relative. meaning different things to different people. by dividing the income of urban families into population thirds. we find that in 1955 the median income was $4.754. with the middle third of the families having a total income of between $3.814 and $6.090. the all important question. it seems to me. is whether or  families in this bracket were substantially helped by va and fha programs. i think they were. under the va programwhich has been responsible for the majority of the new farm housing starts in the government program since 195454 percent of the families helped in 1955 had a total income of between $3.600 and $5.988 annually. with a median income of $5.716. about 75 percent of the vahelped families made under $7.000 annually. examining the fha program in 1955. we find that nearly 60 percent of the families aided had a total annual income of between $3.300 and $6.598. with a median income of about $6.000. let me make it clear that i mean total family income. and  effective incomethe figure generally used in fha breakdowns. which is sometimes 10 percent lower. since it does  include temporary income from young working mothers. excessive overtime. and so forth. about 75 percent of the fha families helped made less than $7.500 annually. i do  believe that either this or the preceding administration discriminated in favor of housing for strictly upperincome families. and i think a careful examination of va and fha figures will prove that statement to be true. the real problem today is a lack of mortgage money at low interest rates available for va and fha guaranteed or insured mortgages. since moderate income housing is heavily based on low interest rates in order to allow for monthly payments within the reach of the moderate income family. we must make our contribution more directly than through va or fha to bring this about. i firmly believe that this objective is helped by the bill of the junior senator from pennsylvania and others. accordingly. i wish to join as a sponsor of it for that reason.
. we have all been gratified by the data released last wednesday by the department of commerce. showing that unemployment decreased by 387.000 during the month of march and that 1.106.000 more people  hold jobs than did in february. yet. although these figures may give us grounds for some satisfaction. they do  remove the reasons for concern: the situation represented by the 4.362.000 unemployedand their 6 million dependentsis still the most serious since before world war ii. except for the worst months of the recession in 1958. and 1.500.000 of the unemployed have been out of work for 15 weeks or longer. an indication that many are  sharing in the general upturn of our ecoy which has brought the gnp to an all time high of $465 billion during the first quarter of 1959. new york state is having special problems in this regard. while the nationwide rate of insured unemployment dropped from 5.7 to 5 percent between february 21 and march 21. new york states rate decreased from 6.2 to only 5.8 percent. in january new york state had 6 major and 14 mi areas of substantial labor surplus. by march aher mi area had been addedplattsburghto bring the total to 21 major and mi areas of substantial labor surplus. the buffalo area. for example. is facing a most serious problem. with unemployment exceeding 12 to 13 percent. thus. a disturbingly large segment of our population is  partaking of the prosperity of the nation. it is our duty to help them obtain their rightful share. it is also a practical necessity. if the health of our ecoy is  to be sapped and we are  to lose the productive power of millions of americans. last wednesday. many of us. including myself. joined the majority leader in his bill to establish a commission on unemployment problems. this is a most worthwhile proposal. even with the speediest consideration. however. it will probably take more than the allotted 60 days for this groups findings and recommendations to be implemented. but measures are  pending in congress which can themselves cut unemployment by anywhere from 20 percent or more and ease the plight of the unemployed. it is the responsibility of the democratic majority in this congress to act upon the measures  before us. this responsibility should be discharged promptly and effectively. i commend the senate for having acted on three of these measures and urge the democratic majority in the other body to similarly proceed forthwith. these measures include: first. the housing bill.  in committee in the other body. a high rate of private residential construction has been to a great extent responsible for our ecoic recovery. we must  permit a letdown in this key sector of our ecoy. rather. we must provide for its further expansion. the more than 12 million families3 million of them in the middleincome bracketi living in substandard housing require it. and the unemployed. 800.000 to a million of whom it is estimated by the building trades and by the department of commerce would be directly and indirectly reemployed in the course of only a 25percent increase in residential construction. require it. second. an adequate depressedareas bill. stripped of its raiding provisions. so that sections of this country which require an ecoic boost will be able to obtain new industries without depriving the original hosts. third. the federal aidtoairports bill has passed both houses and is  awaiting adjustment between them. this bill has the capability of reemploying many thousands of unemployed. fourth. a bill setting federal minimum standards for unemployment compensation. hearings are  being held on that subject before the house ways and means committee. positive action will soon be required in the senate so that an adequate program may be set in motion before the inadequate extension of the present program runs out on june 30. the present extension helps mainly those who are chronically unemployed. these are the very people who primarily need the aid of a positive program in depressed areas. airport construction. and the housing field. those who are intermittently sharing in prosperity and are periodically unemployed are the ones who can be helped. most by more standardized unemployment compensation designed to tide themover until they enter the main stream of recovery. the senate failed to im-" prove the stopgap measure by insisting on the mccarthyjavits amendment. but whatever may be the arguments on that point. it is a fact that a decided majority of the senate wants to do more. it is by acting upon these programs which are  before us that the majority can expeditiously make a direct contribution to the relief of our distressed citizens who are unemployed through fault of their own. to have a majority is to have a responsibility. i sincerely hope that the majority in the other body. as in this body. will discharge this responsibility to the people generally. and especially to the unemployed.
i will refer to page 20 of the report. section 409. headed "relocation payments." i shall of course  seek any amendment to the bill. i have  been on the floor during the presentation of the senator from alabama. and i do  k whether the senator from alabama has been properly lauded. but if he has  been he should be. i think if we have a housing bill as a result of the work of this session it will be heavily attributable to the distinguished senator from alabama. who attacked the problem with patience. withstanding his own irritation. which i think was quite just. as to the course the whole affair took. the senator has surmounted every difficulty and has brought the whole situation into balance. to the point that at long last this tremendous effort will  be wasted. i believe that was the real danger. that this tremendous job of an omnibus bill upon which so much labor had been expended and on which so many people had expressed themselves. would go down the drain. because we had passed merely an extension of the fundamental aspects of the act in deference to the presidents veto and then had to come back next year and do the whole job over again. with all of the frustrations and difficulties which that implies. i should like to say that i believe the whole country will be grateful to the senator from alabama for having somehow or other carried the matter through to what looks . if all the signs in the sky do  get out of order. to be a happy and fine solution.
. two officials of the soviet union concerned with consumer production and distribution recently expressed their amazement at the efficiency of one of our mens clothing factories and at the low retail price of the mens suits they saw. they were assured that these were  government subsidized prices. their surprise is understandable if we realize that in the soviet union every industry is government owned and operated. the central government is also the only supplier of durable and consumer goods. the only distributor and department store owner. and the only employer. practically everyone who works in the soviet union. works for the government. which sets wages and salaries. and also fixes the prices for all the products of industry. a comprehensive study comparing the ecoies of the united states and the soviet union was issued last year by the joint ecoic committee of the congress. of which i am a member. it provides the criteria necessary to arrive at the conclusion that even though soviet standards are low. availability rather than price is the big problem facing the soviet consumer. the soviet citizen pays more than the average american for food. but lacks variety and choice. he pays more for items of personal care as well as for such luxuries as refrigerators. appliances. and automobiles. when and if they become available. for clothing he pays as much as 20 times more for comparable articles which are inferior in quality and style than americans do. many items. particularly in womens clothing. which americans take for granted. are available in the u.s.s.r. in very limited quantities only as imports. the soviet citizen pays considerably less than we do for housing. which is heavily subsidized. but housing is still in very short supply. and for his recreational and cultural activities. which are numerous. but his per capita consumption of food is just a little more than half our own. and he uses on the average less than half as much clothing as we do. doubt the russian would use more of everything if he had it. and his demands are making an impact on the present regime. the underdeveloped nations of the world are watching the efforts of the soviet ecoy to gear up its production of peace goods in response to this demand because the communists are out to convince them that they can develop faster and attain higher living standards under communismbut it is starting from way back and guns still have high priority over butter in the u.s.r.. this is an aspect of the ecoic struggle between the ecoies of the free world and communism. and as i have pointed out this ecoic struggle which the communists call "peaceful coexistence" presents the most dangerous threat faced by the free world. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article by william m. freeman in the new york times of december 18. 1959. on the russians visit to the robert hall clothing distribution center in manhattan.
. i point out that there is hing unusual about granting this kind of authority to the federal government. i refer to the stockyards act. the national housing act. and the fair labor standards act. as well as to the various transportation acts. which give exactly the same authority to the law agencies of the federal government. i ask unanimous consent that there may be included as part of my remarks a study and analysis prepared by the library of congress. citing many instances in which that kind of authority has been conferred upon the federal government and exercised in the interest of the individual citizen. in the statutes previously inserted in my colloquy with the distinguished senator from illis .
. yesterday marked the emergence of jamaica as an independent nation and it is fitting that we in america extend our congratulations to the people of jamaica and their new premier. sir alexander bustamente. relations between this country and jamaica have always been cordial. most recently this friendly entente has received further stimulus through the operation of a peace corps program to aid jamaicas efforts to achieve ecoic improvement. jamaica needs our aid but she has a firm foundation to make good use of that help with her welldeveloped financial. educational. and political institutions and an advanced money ecoy. the major problem is underemployment and unemployment in relation to the current amount of ecoic activity. americas aid to our neighbor to the south includes development loans and grants. the bulk of which are going toward accomplishment of the first two priority goals. housing and water supply. other fields of aid include education. health. agriculture. and industrial development. here is a nation worthy of assistance. a country. small but indomitable. which cast off the shackles of slavery in the 19th century and has made steady progress through the decades to emerge today in the light of freedom. i believe i speak the feeling of all the people of new york in extending them a welcome. many of us have been to jamaica for a visit or holiday. our neighbor to the south has emous potentials. she will be a great friend of the united states and also a great experiment in selfdetermination in the caribbean. i am confident that she will have our help. support. and cooperation. we welcome her to the world community of free nations.
i think the highlight is the limited character of the presidents executive order banning discrimination in housing. it is pointed out: since the order has been in effect only a little more than 6 months. the amount of housing and related facilities constructed pursuant to postexecutive order federal aid agreements has thus far been very small. it is also stated: as you k. federalaid agreements executed prior to the issuance of the executive order generally do  contain a provision requiring discrimination. again. we wonder why people are angry. when federal guarantees have been given for years for housing which has been discriminatory or segregated. even . the executive orderand the fact that the executive order was issued is a very clear indication that the executive branch itself has doubt about its authorityis so limited that in 6 months it has  yet had any real effect. that certainly is an indication of why concentrated attention upon this area. which is so peculiarly within the power and authority of the federal government. is so vital and essential. i come  to the department of labor. which has given us a partial reply. i ask unanimous consent that my request to the department. together with a summary of the departments reply. may be printed in the record. i say "summary" because the department referred me to testimony which the secretary of labor delivered before the committee of the other body which deals with education and labor and equal employment opportunities. naturally. the testimony covered a wide variety of subjects. so i have summarized it. i ask unanimous consent that my letter. the reply. and the summary may be printed in the record.
. i have submitted to senator dirksen on behalf of the manager of the bill. senator hart. certain ideas with respect to modifications in the civil rights worker protection bill before the senate and the mondalebrooke discrimination in housing amendment. i am satisfied that these are receiving earnest and. i feel. sympathetic consideration from senator dirksen. it is my belief that there is a reasonablei would say. good--chance that senator dirksen may be persuaded by his own views and the proposals which i have submitted to him to come again into the role which proved to be historic in respect of bringing about the enactment of the civil rights act of 1964. i can assure the senate that i shall continue to work diligently with senator hart. senators mondale and brooke. and other senators toward this end. i emphasize that this is a unilateral statement. the senator from illis is in way committed. i wish to have such coloration in my statement. i am advancing my views as to where i think matters stand.
. i am hopeful that the treasury will look with favor on the foregoing amendment. the second amendment which i offer deals with the question of cooperative housing projects. the advantage of a cooperative is that the tenant can deduct from his income tax return his share of the interest and the taxes. in order for individual tenantshareholders in cooperatives to qualify for this tax deduction. there is an 80percent textthat is. 80 percent of the cooperative income must be attributable to these individual tenantshareholders. in many cooperatives. we have a situation where some of the income is attributable to public housing agencies which purchase shares in order to sublet apartments in the building to lowincome families. the purpose of my amendment would be to allow this kind of ownership in a cooperative. while still permitting individuals to take their deductionseven if the cooperative does  meet the 80percent test as a result of this public activity. the treasury department expresses a favorable attitude on this amendment. and i hope very much that the committee may find it possible to accept the amendment. (the amendment reads as follows:) on page 546. line 12. at the end of section 914 add a new section 915 to read as follows: "sec. 915. section 216(b) (2) is amended to read as follows: "(2) tenantstockholder.-the term "tenantstockholder" means"(a) an individual. "(b) the united states. its possessions and territories. a state or any political subdivision thereof. or any agency or instrumentality of the foregoing empowered to acquire shares in a cooperative housing corporation for the purpose of providing housing facilities. or " (c) a church or convention or association of churches. an educational organization referred to in section 503(b) (2). or a hospital referred to in section 503 (b) (5). empowered to acquire shares in a cooperative housing corporation for the purpose of providing housing facilities. who is a stockholder in a cooperative housing corporation. and whose stock is fully paidup in an amount  less than an amount shown to the satisfaction of the secretary or his delegate as bearing a reasonable relationship to the portion of the value of the corporations equity in the houses or apartment building and the land on which situated which is attributable to the house or apartment which such person is entitled to occupy. "
i am proposing two amendments that relate to the standard for family income used in determining eligibility for assistance under section 8 of chapter ii of the bill. the amended united states housing act of 1937. section 8 provides for the new program of rent assistance for lowincome families which occupy leased units in private housing. a family must qualify as a "lowincome family" to be eligible to enter into occupancy of a unit assisted under section 8. the definition of "lowincome family" is contained in section 8(a) (5). it  uses a familys "gross income" as the basis for determining whether the family qualifies as a lowincome family. my amendment provides. instead. that family income as defined in section 3(1) of the amended united states housing act will be used for that purpose. the definition of income in section 3(1) is used in all other provisions of the amended united states housing act. absent overriding reasons. which i do  find. it should be used here for legislative consistency and ease of understanding and administration. gross income is  used anywhere else in the proposed act.  is it used in the existing statute. more important. it would be inequitable to determine family eligibility under section 8 on the basis of gross income rather than on income as defined in section 3(1). income under section 3(1) is determined after making certain exclusions. similar to exclusions or deductions allowed for federal individual income tax. such asfamily size. where an exclusion of $300 is allowed for each child. extraordinary medical or similar expenses. which may be excluded as approved by the secretary. recurring income. which is excluded income of a spouse. which is excluded up to $300. and income of children which is excluded. and an exclusion of 10 percent of gross income for elderly families. gross income makes allowance for any of these factors. in determining eligibility under section 8. it would be unfair to families that have more children. or are elderly. or are burdened with greater medical expensesthe kind of families we are especially concerned with helpingto disregard these kinds of differences in the real financial condition of families with the same gross income. using the standard definition of income in section 8(a) (5) will mean that some families which would be excluded from eligibility under the gross income test will. because they have children. or high medical expenses. or are elderly. become eligible for occupancy of units assisted under section 8. i understand that the use of the gross income test stemmed from a concern with avoiding an unduly high maximum income limit under section 8. this concern was focused in particular. as i understand it. on cases where the area involved is one with a scarcity of existing decent housing for lower income families and where calculations of fair market rent in the areawhich is also a factor in the eligibility formula in section 8(a) (5)will accordingly be based on rentals for newly constructed housing. i can appreciate and share this concern with assuring that the needs of the neediest are effectively served and that families who can actually afford decent housing without governmental assistance are  brought within the benefits of section 8. the views in this regard that are expressed on pages 144 and 145 of the committees report are very much in accord with my own: recognizing that these income limits will generally prove to be somewhat higher than those  in effect for housing assisted under the present section 23. the committee is concerned that lowincome families be effectively served under the program. for that reason. section 8(a) (6) requires that 20% of the families assisted under this section in any market area must be "very low income families." very low income families are defined as families whose income does  exceed 50 percent of the median income for the area as determined by hud with adjustments for larger and smaller families. the committee also has in mind the benefits that result from having projects occupied by families of varying income levels. it recognizes that in communities where housing is scarce and expensive. families in a fairly broad spectrum of income may be unable to obtain decent housing through the unaided operations of the private sector. and ecoic diversity and integration in housing occupancy can be accomplished only through allowing families within such a spectrum to occupy federally assisted housing. the concern with guarding against benefitting families of unduly high income in the type of situation i described earlier is . in my judgment. best dealt with by imposing a gross income test. because of the inequity which that involves. my second amendment. which adds a new sentence at the end of section 8(a) (6). provides. i believe. a fairer and more workable solution. under the amendment. where section 8 assistance is provided for existing units in areas where fair market rentals are based on new construction. public housing authorities are called upon. in carrying out their responsibilities under section 8. to make special efforts to see that such units are occupied to the fullest extent feasible by families whose incomes are in the lower part of the range of eligible incomes. i hope very much that the committee would be willing to use these words which are consistent with that objective. i would greatly appreciate it if my colleagues would let me k how they feel about the amendments.
. to a number of matters here. first and foremost. i am deeply gratifled that the national institute of building sciences. a measure which i have sponsored for a number of years. is included. this is essentially small business. it is astounding that building does  have big business units. and even the biggest builders are relatively small businessmen. therefore. the absence of adequate research and development has been very iceable in this field. and the real effort that is  being made to make up for it through the national institute of building sciences which will deal with the development and promulgation of national standards relating to the building field as well as the materials which are used. as well as the evaluation of existing and new techogy. and the central source of technical data and other information which is ascertained through these r. & d. programs. i really think that historically it may be one of the most important achievements in this bill. although the amounts involved are  great. $5 million a year. the other thing i would like to call very special attention to is the way in which the committee dealt with a very kty problem of a new program. a leasing program. section 23. concerned with low and moderate income but above the public housing level. the thing that worried us in the cities was that the two basic programs which had been responsible for most new construction. to wit. section 235 and 236 programs. would  be continued but would immediately be displaced by section 23. the leasing program. although there was experience. regulation. and money. it is. therefore. very gratifying that the committee has allowed a period of time in which the slack can be taken up by keeping the work under these two sections. 235 and 236. operative and. i would assume. senator sparkman and senator brock will so advise us. that the committee will feel its obligation to monitor the situation so that again we do  run the peril of simply dropping everything before section 23 is ready. but really giving a full opportunity for the phasein which the committee obviously had in mind
i think that the facts that i have presented show that the bank supports the congressional intent of public law 9411 to use its resources to benefit lowincome individuals in cooperatives. credit unions and similar selfhelp organizations which benefit the lower income individuals. the bank has been responsive to the u.s. congressional concern and the facts so demonstate. the bank has a long history of funding projects which benefit lower income individuals. much of this work has been done in rural agriculture which represents 22.7 percent of the banks portfolio since its founding. approximately 80 percent of this activity has been done through cooperatives. the bank has been an inator in water and sanitation systems throughout latin america. aher significant portion of the banks work is done in rural electrification which benefits low income persons. the bank is  a newcomer to projects which benefit the ecoically most disadvantaged in latin america. but. of course. there is much to be done and the bank recognizing this. continues to increase its activities in areas which benefit the low income persons. . i support this legislation wholeheartedly as evidence of our commitment to latin america in an interdependent world. average average average annual size of sales price average income of housing of housing loan borrowers 3 financed financed amount per capita low gross domestic (u.s. (square (u.s. (u.s. produectcountry dollars) feet) dollars) dollars) 908argentina ---------------------- $9. 600 700 na na 289bolivia ---------------------------- 2.436 1.010 $8. 500 $3. 890 903- brazil ----------------------------- 7.200 1190 20. 000 na 521colomhia a onn  n . .. per capita low gross domestic product -country 374honduras ----------- ...... 669pnicaragua ama -------...... -- ." 053panama ------------.. ---........... average annual income of borrowerss (u.s. dollars) average size of housing financed (square feet) 7.320 900 na na 7.800 680 average sales price of housing financed (u.s. dollars) average loan amount (u.s. dollars) 9. 631 11.930 .. ......................... o . uu . ieru---------------------------na na na 3. 9 874--costs rica-............... .--- 3.600 750 6.000 5. 116 650ddominican republic ------------------na na a 9.584 820chile .............. .............. na 780 10.000 2.473 488paraguay ... ... ... .. ... ... .. -- - - -- - - n80 na9 na 9.58 525--ecuador na--------- 70 0.00 243 4 prga- ------- ---------4.680 1390 na na na na na 4.509 013venezuela ----------------------- 7.812 na na na 393el salvador ------------------------ 7. 200 820 8.000 7. 018 . material obtained from national savings and les league . . the incomes indicated in this column would be considered those of middle income groups i2 2 as of december 1974. token from tbe 1875 world bask atlas". to be published shortly. latiln america.
