 eisenhower in 1960. the arctic national wildlife refuge was created and later expanded to preserve the areas unique wilderness and wildlife values by protecting fish and wildlife populations in their natural diversity. the 1.5 million acres of the refuges coastal plain proposed for oil exploration and drilling. kn as the "1002" area. is the most biologically productive part of the refuge. the coastal plain is home to a diverse collection of wildlife including polar and grizzly bear populations. musk oxen. 180 bird species. and one of the largest caribou herds in th america. each year. the porcupine caribou herdover 129.000 members strongmigrates 400 miles from wintering grounds in the th central canadian yukon to the arctic refuge coastal plain where they give birth to their young. in a typical year. the herd can birth up to 4050.000 calves. the importance of the porcupine caribou herd can best be illustrated by a 1987 conservation agreement between the governments of canada and the united states. the agreement recognizes the value of the porcupine herd and the importance of protecting their birthing grounds to ensure the future sustainability of the population as a vital part of the refuges ecological system. in canada. land th of the porcupine river was withdrawn from development in 1978. oil exploration and drilling in the porcupine caribou herds prime calving grounds remains an item of contention between the united states and canada and threatens the future of the conservation agreement. i am prepared to support a national energy policy that balances our energy needs with strong environmental protection. reducing our dependence on foreign oil is a national priority. but should  come at the expense of our nations precious natural resources. allowing oil and gas development in the coastal plain promises only shortterm benefits that may irreparably damage the wildlife values and unique vitality of the arctic refuge. opening the arctic refuge to oil ex•ploration and drilling should  be the primary component of the effort to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. there are other steps we should take that would provide more benefits in the long term.*
 eisenhower in 1960. the arctic national wildlife refuge was created and later expanded to preserve the areas unique wilderness and wildlife values by protecting fish and wildlife populations in their natural diversity. the 1.5 million acres of the refuges coastal plain proposed for oil exploration and drilling. kn as the "1002" area. is the most biologically productive part of the refuge. the coastal plain is home to a diverse collection of wildlife including polar and grizzly bear populations. musk oxen. 180 bird species. and one of the largest caribou herds in th america. each year. the porcupine caribou herdover 129.000 members strongmigrates 400 miles from wintering grounds in the th central canadian yukon to the arctic refuge coastal plain where they give birth to their young. in a typical year. the herd can birth up to 4050.000 calves. the importance of the porcupine caribou herd can best be illustrated by a 1987 conservation agreement between the governments of canada and the united states. the agreement recognizes the value of the porcupine herd and the importance of protecting their birthing grounds to ensure the future sustainability of the population as a vital part of the refuges ecological system. in canada. land th of the porcupine river was withdrawn from development in 1978. oil exploration and drilling in the porcupine caribou herds prime calving grounds remains an item of contention between the united states and canada and threatens the future of the conservation agreement. i am prepared to support a national energy policy that balances our energy needs with strong environmental protection. reducing our dependence on foreign oil is a national priority. but should  come at the expense of our nations precious natural resources. allowing oil and gas development in the coastal plain promises only shortterm benefits that may irreparably damage the wildlife values and unique vitality of the arctic refuge. opening the arctic refuge to oil ex•ploration and drilling should  be the primary component of the effort to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. there are other steps we should take that would provide more benefits in the long term.*
. this aniendnient is submitted on behalf of seniator randoi.n. senatior staitota). and myself. it establishes an interageny committee to coordinatt federal eflorbi toward resource conservalilon and resource recovery. it requires (he committee to establish 5year plaits to nhalce resource conservation and resource recovery. there are represeniatives friom epa. commerce. and energy oil this illteragency committee. i move adoption of the anllldnmelt.
. i k from firsthand experience that the "house doctor" approach to residential conservation works. in my state. there is a statewide. profit energy conservation corporation called rise: "rhode islanders saving energy." in 21/ years. 6.000 rhode island homeowners have received free energy audits from rise. trained rise auditors. called house doctors spend 21/2 hours checking homes for energy waste. they supply homeowners with recommendations for conserving energy. based on the results of their audit. rise will also be the contractor for conservation measures homeowners elect to make.
. i k from firsthand experience that the "house doctor" approach to residential conservation works. in my state. there is a statewide. profit energy conservation corporation called "rise": "rhode islanders saving energy." in 2/ years. 6.000 rhode island homeowners have received free energy auditors from rise. trained i rise auditors spend 21/2 hours checking - homes for energy waste. they supply s homeowners with recommendations for conserving energy. based on the results of their audit. rise will also be the contractor for conservation measures hornet owners elect to make.
i think joint hearings between the energy committees subcommittee on water and power and the environment committees subcommittee on water resources would be most useful. and i trust the senator from alaska will make every effort to hold hearings in september.
. this issue is  a new one. as chairman of the environmental pollution subcommittee of the environment and public works committee. i have watched this mill try for many years to find a way out of complying with these standards. in addition to asking congress for all kinds of studies and special treatment. this mill applied to epa for a variance. at this time last year. epa issued a final decision to deny this mill a variance. epa took over 4 years of studying and analyzing this issue. they looked at every possible aspect of this mill to determine if it was a special case. they looked at land availability. energy costs. equipment costs. and on and on. in the final analysis epa concluded that this mill was different from any other mill in the industry. in fact. this same mill even asked epa to establish a special industry subcategory of standards for it because of its socalled specialness. and epa denied that request. also. as my colleagues are well aware. congress established the national water pollution standards back in 1972. it has been a long time since we discussed the theory behind those standards. allow me to remind my colleagues that back in the old days different states would entice industries to locate within their borders by offering lower pollution control standards. this is a great technique. "you do  have to be so stringent as in your state. in our state. come here and build your plant." . in addition to causing terrible pollution problems. this also caused great competitive advantages of one company over aher. one of the purposes of the national standards was to eliminate those aspects of competitive advantage that were based on differences in pollution control requirements. we  have federal industrywide standards that all companies must meet. the only way out is to get an epa variance. which this alaskan mill applied for and was denied. if we provide a special grant to this alaskan mill. we would be perpetuating the very inequity that we hoped to eliminate by creating the national pollution standards. by virtue of its compliance. this mill has had a competitive advantage ever since 1977. i do  think we ought to weep great tears over this mill. they have  been in compliance since 1977. if we ask our federal taxpayers to spend $7 million of their money to bring this mill into compliance. we are adding insult to injury. it is my understanding that  a single cent of alaskan money. the state of alaska money. is being requested to help this mill meet these requirements that are so severe that they  want federal money for. in other words. it is of great state importance to alaska. but  of such importance they are willing to spend a nickel of their money on. that is state money. i could be corrected. but it is my understanding the state of alaska just sent out something like $400 to every citizen in alaska from its oil trust fund. amounting to well over the amount of money that would be required to keep this. mill up and save these jobs. so i urge my colleagues to remember that we all have plants in our states we would like to help out. what prevents us from helping is the basic unfairness of the request. every pulp mill in the country has complied or is in the process of complying with the standards. every other plant in the country has to comply with national standards. this company wants a separate deal. they want the u.s. government to pay for their coming into compliance. i urge my colleagues to vote for the amendment of. the senator from washington.
. this issue is  a new one. as chairman of the environmental pollution subcommittee of the environment and public works committee. i have watched this mill try for many years to find a way out of complying with these standards. in addition to asking congress for all kinds of studies and special treatment. this mill applied to epa for a variance. at this time last year. epa issued a final decision to deny this mill a variance. epa took over 4 years of studying and analyzing this issue. they looked at every possible aspect of this mill to determine if it was a special case. they looked at land availability. energy costs. equipment costs. and on and on. in the final analysis epa concluded that this mill was different from any other mill in the industry. in fact. this same mill even asked epa to establish a special industry subcategory of standards for it because of its socalled specialness. and epa denied that request. also. as my colleagues are well aware. congress established the national water pollution standards back in 1972. it has been a long time since we discussed the theory behind those standards. allow me to remind my colleagues that back in the old days different states would entice industries to locate within their borders by offering lower pollution control standards. this is a great technique. "you do  have to be so stringent as in your state. in our state. come here and build your plant." . in addition to causing terrible pollution problems. this also caused great competitive advantages of one company over aher. one of the purposes of the national standards was to eliminate those aspects of competitive advantage that were based on differences in pollution control requirements. we  have federal industrywide standards that all companies must meet. the only way out is to get an epa variance. which this alaskan mill applied for and was denied. if we provide a special grant to this alaskan mill. we would be perpetuating the very inequity that we hoped to eliminate by creating the national pollution standards. by virtue of its compliance. this mill has had a competitive advantage ever since 1977. i do  think we ought to weep great tears over this mill. they have  been in compliance since 1977. if we ask our federal taxpayers to spend $7 million of their money to bring this mill into compliance. we are adding insult to injury. it is my understanding that  a single cent of alaskan money. the state of alaska money. is being requested to help this mill meet these requirements that are so severe that they  want federal money for. in other words. it is of great state importance to alaska. but  of such importance they are willing to spend a nickel of their money on. that is state money. i could be corrected. but it is my understanding the state of alaska just sent out something like $400 to every citizen in alaska from its oil trust fund. amounting to well over the amount of money that would be required to keep this. mill up and save these jobs. so i urge my colleagues to remember that we all have plants in our states we would like to help out. what prevents us from helping is the basic unfairness of the request. every pulp mill in the country has complied or is in the process of complying with the standards. every other plant in the country has to comply with national standards. this company wants a separate deal. they want the u.s. government to pay for their coming into compliance. i urge my colleagues to vote for the amendment of. the senator from washington.
absolutely. what we have to do right  is hold the line . just think: the distinguished senator from montana a year ago made comments identical to those he has made today. where would we be had those comments been heeded. we would be way ahead of our present situation. somewhere we have to start. for gods sake let us have a mandatory fuel conservation program right . and  10 years from .
. saying -in effect "here is the authority. you devise all the plans and we can veto them." therefore. i can support passage of s. 622 and will offer today legislation that i feel proposes effective and equitable mandatory energy conservation action for the short term.
. the environmental protection agency began its commitment 5 years ago today to clean up our air and water and protect all americans from the health hazards of pollution imminent with a fastpaced ecoy. the mandate for specific action has gained substance and momentum over the past 5 years with the passage of major environmental legislation such as the clean air and water acts. se control act. solid waste disposal and resources recovery act. and most recently the safe drinking water act. these laws serve as the cornerstone of our national effort to clean up the environment. however. the job is far from complete. in this congress we face major legislative challenges to continue the fight for a more livable world. the clean air act amendments are currently before the public works committee in markup sessions. for a long time. i have advocated that we should  relax auto emission standards to meet the energy crisis. the national academy of sciences has reported that the strict statutory standards can be met without a substantial fuel penalty. insubstantial shortterm energy and ecoic gains are  worth the price of further destroying our already fragile environment. before the commerce committee is legislation proposing control over toxic substances. it is obvious that controls are necessary to prevent the marketing of harmful chemicals. however. such legislation must be workable from an administrative standpoint and that regulations  impose an unreasonable hardship on the manufacturer. the alarming rate at which pcbspolychlorinated biphenylsare being discovered in our nations waterways is reason egh to enact some form of legislation in this area before it is too late. connecticut has been a leader in cleaning and protecting the environment. in cooperation with epa. we were one of the first states to administer the npdes permit program through the state department of environmental protection to clean up our rivers and lakes. contrary to what many vocal miities around the country advocate. a recent poll by the opinion research corp. indicates that 60 percent of the total public is willing to pay higher prices to protect the environment rather than run the risk of more pollution. more important. 86 percent of the public feel we are paying  for the mistakes we made in the past. that indication alone should rally our spirit to change our habits and protect future generations from past errors and shortsightedness. epa does  work against us. but for us. in the last quarter of this century. we must strive to manage our natural resources prudently and avoid the excesses of former years as we take care  to impair the health of americans and people all over the world. the timeliness of theodore roosevelts observation is worth ing on this day: the nation behaves well if it treats the natural resources as assets which it must turn over to the next generation increased and  impaired in value. the ultimate cost of pollution in its numerous forms is our individual lives. the record of the environmental protection agency attests to its concern and dedication for the betterment of all mankind. the challenge of the future is to continue that progress with the support of the congress and american people. on this occasion. i take pleasure in joining my colleagues to congratulate bill ruckleshaus and russell train and all employees of epa for their commitment to a cleaner and healthier environment.
during the course of that conference. every time the words "mandatory conservation" came up. it was as though someone had thrown a pail of cold water in the face of every senator and representative present. each one afraid to go out of that room and demand sacrifice of the american people in order to resolve this crisis. in the propositions which i have made informally throughout my state of connecticut as to energy conservation. one was the closing of gas stations on sunday. somebody responded. "that does  fit in with my plans. what if i am going to be on the road on sunday." the time has come to explain to each american that there is system that is going to work which is  going to require sacrifice and a change in lifestyle. the alternative is to live as we have for 2 years. with high prices and short supply. i heard someone use the term "return to doubledigit inflation." the fact is that we have never left doubledigit inflation. we have that artificial 50 percent that was imposed on us by the opec nations. and we still live with it. and because we live with it. we have chance of climbing out of this recession. i cited the first annual report of the international energy agency. in todays wall street journal is an article about a twentieth century fund task force: a twentieth century fund task force found that the full impact of the higher cost of imported oil is yet to be felt by the oilimporting countries. the task force. which released a report yesterday on what it called "the international oil crisis." expressed concern about the "new complacency" over energy problems. to date. the task force said. "less than half of the money and other claims transferred to the oil producers" by the oilimporting countries "has been redeemed for actual goods and services." as a result. the task force said. "the full cost of imported oil hasnt yet come home to the importing countries" even though the added burden on consumers of the oil cartels quadrupling of oil prices since 1973 has contributed to both inflation and recession. the twentieth century fund is a research foundation engaged in policyoriented studies of ecoic. political and social issues and institutions. the energy task force was comprised of 16 ecoists. bankers. oil consultants and businessmen. the task force concluded that the best "remedy" for the problems caused by the increased price of oil would be simply to lower the price. but this remedy. the task force said. should be sought through reliance on market forces rather than through negotiation with the organization of petroleum exporting countries. or opec. "market pressures on the price set by opec should be strengthened primarily by enlarging the worlds capacity to produce oil and alternate fuels. but also by increased conservation efforts." the task force recommended. whether it is that report or the report of the international energy agency. these are harsh but accurate assessments of our conservation efforts to date. the united states has set a fine example for other consuming nations. we have  taken one step to immediately curtail energy consumption. instead. we keep prices artificially low. rewarding consumption. by a lack of a coherent conservation policy. we perpetuate the myth that the energy crisis is contrived. what provisions of the bill that are constructivefor example. establishing mandatory auto efficiency standards and requiring energy labeling of appliancesare also easy. they are things that almost everyone agrees on. but when the going gets tough. congress takes a powder. this bill maintains americas place as the worlds oil junkie. congress blew two chances to stand up to its responsibility. first. the housepassed mandatory gasoline allocation program. although i did  agree with some of its provisions. i commend the house for taking the energy problem seriously. gasoline consumption accounts for 39 percent of our total petroleum consumption. total gasoline consumed by auto travel is approximately 4.9 million barrels a day. any conservation policy worth its salt must cut this lavish consumption. immediately. unfortunately. rather than improve upon this program. the house conferees quickly surrendered. on aher matter. the bill authorizes bloc grantsinaid to states to assist in the development of stateadministered energy conservation programs. the bill calls for each state plan to receive a reduction in energy consumption of 5 percent in 1980. during the conference. i offered an amendment to bring the target date forward to 1978. the amendment was defeated. once again. the conferees avoided the tough but necessary steps that will get us out of the energy se. once again. we were content with a minimum response to a maximum need. goal 3 of this bill was. once upon a time. to cut our reliance on imported oil. in this. it is the biggest flop of all. in addition to granting the cartel the leverage to raise prices. imports are likely to increase by 50 percent above present levels by 1980. what does this mean for the american ecoy. for american jobs. in 1 year. 1974. u.s. expenditures on oil imports skyrocketed from $8.2 to $24.3 billion. such an emous outflow of dollars could  help but have adverse consequencesand it did. we starved american industry of vitally needed capitalcapital that could be invested in america. we sent abroad money to buy oil that could have been spent in america creating jobs. this bill does hing to lessen the devastating flow of american dollars to the middle east. it does hing to lessen american dependence on foreign oil. forty percent of our oil comes from imports. sixtyfive percent of our imports come from opec. in short. this bill gives opec brass knuckles at a time when the next oil embargo could kayo america. faced with a serious threat to our national security. congress has played into the hands of opec. we have signaled to opec that we are willing to take their oil at any price. in essence. opec will continue to call the shotsthe result could prove to be ecoic disaster for the united states. .
. i would like to address some comments to senate resolution 78. and more particularly the energy crisis confronting this nation. the te of my remarks will  be any different than they were a year ago. 2 years ago. or 4 years ago. indeed. they hark back to the imposition of the embargo on the united states by the arab nations back in 1974. at that time. and on several ensuing occasions. i suggested that the nation address itself to the subject of mandatory conservation in some form. in addition to a program of decontrol and deregulation to stimulate domestic production. but it is mainly to the conservation effort. or the lack thereof. that i would like to address my comments this morning. twice on the senate floor in the past several years mandatory conservation legislation introduced by me has been soundly defeated. first off. let me say to those who indicate that they do  like rationing. that we have had rationing in the united states for the past 4 years. it is called rationing by price. the elderly have been affected by it and the poor have been affected by it. those on fixed income have been affected by it. so all elements that comprise the weakest elements of our society have been rationed. they did  have the choice of turning down their thermostats. indeed. many of those thermostats went far below that suggested as a wise level by the leadership of this nation over the past several years. many of them did  have the choice as to whether or  they could afford gasoline for their automobiles. they could  afford it and they did  ride. so rationing has been a fact of life for thousands of americans. during the same period of time. voluntary conservation has been the official policy of the united states and it has been a total failure. the american record of voluntary conservation has been a miserable one. to the point where. last monthi believe my statistics are correctwe consumed the greatest amount of gasoline ever in the history of the nation. so.  1. i think the track record indicates that voluntary conservation is  going to work. two. that a conservation effort is necessary. ergo. the time has come to impose some form of mandatory conservation on this nation. the time has come. in other words. for the strongest elements. which is the majority of this country. to take the conservation burden on each and every shoulder of which. if done. would accomplish two very significant things. first. let me give some suggestions as to the types of conservation i am talking about: a 6day week for the automobile. i exclude agricultural and commercial vehicles from this category. you pick a day of the week when your car is  going to be on the road. put a coloredidentifiable sticker on your windshield and. then if you drive on that day. you get arrested and fined. if you are fortunate egh to have two cars pick 2 days a week when the second car would  be on the road. if you have a third car. 3 days for that third car. point  2 is a 6day week for gasoline stations. let the station owner select the day of the week when the station is going to be closed. i am sure the market will distribute the matter of who is open and who is closed. point  3 is commercial lighting. at the present time. you can fly over most of the cities in our nation at 2 or 3 in the morning and every light in every office building is ablaze. i understand the necessity for street lighting. i understand the necessity for lights on one floor when somebody is going in to clean that floor. but every light in every building. that is preposterous. i suggest that there be. in some form. a ban on that type of commercial lighting. all these are small suggestions and only involve a small change in lifestyle.
what fate is any plan going to have that the president sends up if the senate is  even willing to discuss mandatory conservation. does it make any difference as to what the plan consists of. he can send plan 3. plan 4. plan 5. is the senate going to pass a mandatory conservation plan when it is  even willing to discuss the mandatory conservation plan. how are those prices going to come down until all of a sudden we push ourselves away from the energy table. how are those prices going to come down until we throw the bottle in the can. selfdenial. selfdiscipline. sacrifice. and this is a solution. my lord. i thought the leadership of the nation existed in this chamber. we have got one thing to say as to the leadershipand i do  refer. i might add. to the distinguished senator from west virginia. who supported us. and who was 1 of the 16 who had the courage to stand upi am talking about leadership in the sense of every u.s. senator on the issue of doing the necessary to face this problem of an energy crisis. the president has done his bit. sixteen senators did theirs. i suppose there is way of it appearmy only comment to the 81to16 vote would best be expressed in the words of some of the inhabitants of the famous farm on the eastern shore of maryland. cluckcluckcluckcluck.
i thank my distinguished colleague from ohio. who. on the other side of the aisle. has led the fight for fair conservation. mandatory conservation. any package that he has brought forth on this floor i have supported.  because i necessarily agreed with all aspects of it. but because he was trying to bring home a concept of a fair system for everyonefor everyone. he has  been listened to. either in committee or on the floor. the president comes in here with his plan. he is  listened to. i come up here with amendments: i am  listened to. hing is acceptable. one measurei think one measurethat we have. is to lower the thermostats. that is it.  outdoor advertisingthat was too severe.  to give the president authority in case an emergency hitsthat was too severe. hing. absolutely hing. i remember. in the last debate we had on conservation. i made the comment that maybe some of our baseball gamesi did this on one of the network tv news programsmight go to day games instead of playing them at night. editorials appeared in the newspaper. "what a spoilsport the senator from connecticut is." i make the suggestion that we all might somehow restrict our personal driving. "what a spoilsport." the tourist industry says. "people can take trips." right down the line.  we hear truckers. they want to be exempt. people who produce energy want to be exempt. those who like sports want to be exempt. senators and congressmen want to be exempt. everybody wants to be exempt. the result is that we have absolutely conservation in this country whatsoever and we have prospect of it. the senator from illis phrased it very particularly when he said the greatest energy source we have in this country. and the only one. is conservation. one is going to turn the spigot back on a ia 1973 and 1974. iran is . they have decreed for themselves a lifestyle that i imagine will be copied. arab nation by arab nation. they see themselves and what happened to the shah. they think. a little less oil to the united states. a little less oil in the palace. a little more in the countryside. those oil pipelines are  going to be turned back on. do we have a production capacity within the united states to overcome that shortfall. absolutely . we did  before the crisis struck. we certainly do  . everybody says solar energy. yes. solar energy. but that will be in the year 2000. by the time solar energy reaches the point where it can contribute materially to our supply of energy. we are all for it. but where can it contribute materially to our supply at the present time. geothermal: also the year 2000.  before then. to work. to contribute materially to supply. the fuel cell: the year 2000 or beyond. to where it can contribute materially to supply. the gasification. as well as liquefleation. of coal: the year 2000 before it can contribute materially to supply. so. where is the supply of energy. nuclear. nuclear. certainly. i would say. is in a static condition from  until the year 2000. and will probably be on the decline after that. but  much in the way of additional production. so we are left with. really. only one source of supply for the years 1979 and 1980 and beyond. that is conservation. the change of our lifestyles to where we use less. and every opportunity that comes before this body is rejected. i realize that in 1977 it seemed as if we were out from under the arab oil embargo and we had  yet confronted iran. so. maybe there was a human excuse  to act. but how can that be the situation today on this floor. when everyone realizes that we are in an ecoic war. never mind about the moral equivalent of war. we are at war ecoically. the only way i k to go ahead. as long as we are this dependent on imported oil. to bring down the price of that oil and to guarantee supplies. is to say to those exporters. "we dont need cxxv844part 11 your product." then the price will come down. but  until. well. let me get to my speech on behalf of the amendment. this is the 1979 version. . i realize that such a plan may be distasteful to many individuals. at this point. however. we have other choice but to conserve gasoline. if conservation entails sacrifice. which i believe it does. then we will have to sacrifice. it is important that the social sacrifice which must be made is equally borne by all americans. this plan does  impose a greater burden upon any one segment of the population. rather. each individual will be forced. by law. to refrain from using his car at least 1 day per week. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this amendment be printed at this point in the record.
since what we are talking about. the entire bill before the senate deals with conservation. i certainly think that it can be argued that the amendment of the senator from connecticut does  deal with conservation. and i do  mean conservation of anything other than oil. gasoline. and energy supplies. i can think of anything more germane to the subject matter before the senate.
. it was a year ago. or more. that i stood on the floor of the senate and offered as an amendment to the energy bill of 1978 an energy stamp program. we were then. as we are . in the midst of a rationing by price scheme which was. and still is. devastating to the poor of this countrythose on fixed incomes. the elderly. and the lower middle income groups. i very thoroughly disagree that conservation should be achieved by rationing by price. but that disagreement has gone the way of any other disagreement that i have with the energy policies of this country. it is lost. the fact is that we do have rationing by price. that is the scheme. and i see hing that will change that in the future. the advocacy of a tax on gasoline is further rationing by price. the price of oil continues to go up. and that is rationing by price. if there is to be conservation short of other types of conservation which i have advocated (whether it is 6 days a week for the automobile.  using the credit card for the purchase of gasoline. or coupon rationing) it is to be rationing by price. because of this. it is best to take care of the needs of the most disadvantaged elements in our society. back in 1978. i proposed a fuel stamp program. the chairman of the finance committee cut that down to being a pilot program. and that was the amendment that was taken to conference and lost in conference. . in this year. 1979. along with senator eagleton and senator durkin. we scrambled around to try to find how we could best help these disadvantaged elements of our society before the winter season was upon us. we had program in place such as the one advocated a year earlier to help these people. indeed. the price of energy was far greater than it was at the time that amendment was adopted in the senate and dropped in the conference. the best we could come up with was the crisis intervention program. initially. a $22 million effort in the appropriations committee. but thanks to senators eagleton and durkin. we raised the figure to $250 million as a compromise and then further raised it to $1.6 billion at the urging of the administration.  that is embodied in the legislation before us. but. again. type of permanent mechanism. i again point out to my colleagues here this aftern that. sooner or later. we must take care of the basic necessities of life. we have done so of food with food stamps. and we must do it  with energy stamps. we can  continue to scramble around in a makeshift mechanism to take care of the people that have been hurt the most by this crisis. all i have done in this amendment is permit the states to have an energy stamp program. it is strictly permissive and intended to be utilized administratively in its present form in the same way as the food stamp program. it does  mandate anything. only suggests that this may be a good way for them to handle it. indeed. if that is what they want. fine. they are the ones to go ahead and make the decision. but i predict today. that whatever program we enact. and i believe this legislation. if i am  mistaken. goes for 3 yearsappropriation for 3 years and authorization for 3 yearsthis problem will still be with us well past the year i am  using this as the vehicle to bring about federal legislation of energy stamp program. r am using it as the occasion to remind senators that we have  settled this problem. as the price of energy soars. and it will. and if conservation is achieved by rationing by price. we have got to have a permanent mechanism in place to take care of those citizens upon whom conservation is forced by virtue of their ecoic status. i hope the managers of the bill. the majority and miity. will accept this very minimal suggestion. it merely keeps alive an idea. that is all. it does  interfere with our leqislation. it keeps alive an idea at the state level and at the option of the states. an idea. believe me. that should be implemented at the federal level. the fact is that the way the legislation is written . what i am oroposing here would  interfere one iota. it merely would include this as aher option for the states to use
why is it that the distinguished majority leader. having had a whole year to lay out his legislative schedule. plan his legislative schedule. to make certain those matters of priority are addressed by the u.s. senate. has the mo. as the police would put it. of always running all the important issues up to the last minute. threatening the u.s. senate with the fact that their privileges of being on vacation or recess will be withdrawn. indeed. these are important issues and they should be resolved. as i say. this is in the nature of a question to the distinguished senator from kansas. we can spend weeks on $100.000 and  hear from the majority leader. but when you get into the billionsofdollars category. be it oil. be it chrysler or whatever. that is something that has to be resolved in a very brief period of time. maybe the fault then really lies  so much in the nature of the issue or those who are trying to debate the issue. but in the nature of the leadership. as far as i am concerned the leadership of the senator from west virginia has been lacking.  just in the last few weeks. but over a period of years. i do  recall when we had giants here. such as the distinguished senator from montana. senator mansfield. or others that leadership was ever a problem. but with the senator from west virginia it is always a niggling. a negotiating of time agreements. and threatening senators. never mind the substance of issues. the mo of the majority leader is to treat his equals as inferiors. as the senator from kansas well ks. i voted against him on some of the substantive issues relative to windfall profit taxes. and i suspect i will vote against him on some other issues. but i do  think there has been any filibuster here. i do  think he in any manner. or his colleagues has introduced extraneous issues to a valid debate over billions of dollars. but i have seen over the course of months.  the weeks that he refers to. a propensity on the part of the majority leader  to pull the u.s. senate together but to make sure it stays at odds. and with petty motions and petty recriminations and petty threats fail consistently to achieve the large objective. so again to the distinguished senator from kansas in the sense of substance and with which substance i disagree in some respects. i do  feel that he has either delayed or negated the will of the people. on the other hand. i have never once heard the distinguished majority leader speak out for conservation. never once. never once. the other day i introduced a conservation bill on the floor of the senate and he wanted to substitute a senseofthesenate resolution. having voted against conservation. which could only be interpreted as the weakest possible stance. . a wheeler and a dealer does  a leader make. and that is exactly the nature of the problem here. it is  the substance of this legislation. it is  the presentation of the senator from kansas or the senator from louisiana. it is the insignificance and the smallness of the leadership and. very frankly. that invariably results in a lastminute tangle.  only on this issue but on issue after issue after issue. this is a billion dollar issue on which the senator from kansas and i disagree. but it certainly deserves thorough debate.  i do  think we are going to react to the threat that we can go home for christmas or new years. i am prepared to stay here. but i want the right result. that is what is important. we want an energy policy that is grounded on the basis of conservation and of production.  on the basis of threats. and  on the basis of partisanship. indeed. the record is abysmal when it comes to the majority leader on conservation or production. there have been courageous souls on the democratic side who have spoken out for conservation. several of them are on the floor right . and there have been those who have spoken out for conservation on the republican side. but what has to be hammered out in the senate is an energy policy for the nation. and  threats. filibuster. i had to sit here through a onehalf hour lecture. harangue. and chastisement by the majority leader. who is filibustering. i suggest it is the majority leader. in furtherance of his point of view. but more importantly. were he a man of stature. he long ago would have gotten the parties together. and we would have had agreement on the basic issues confronting us all. but he is  leading either in the fight for conservation. in the fight for alternate means of transportation. or in the fight for production. he has tried to play all ends against the middle. he has threatened. he has tried to appeal to human instincts outside the elements of the argument on energy. as such. he has failed miserably to assist in resolving the important energy issues before us. so. to my good friend from kansas i would hope. having voted for the minimum tax. that at least he would be given the opportunity to properly state his point of view.  in the narrow confines espoused by the majority leader. but in the sense of true debate and true choice. i would hope that the opportunity would be afforded the distinguished senator from kansas. with whom i disagree. to present his case. he deserves his day.  the mealy mouthed threats. the improvisations. the expediences. and the play to the baser human emotions that constituted the speech of the majority leader of the u.s. senate.
 carter first on april 15. 1980. and again as recently as january 15. 1981. i propose reinstitution for two reasons: first. an abandonment of this conservation initiative sends the world exactly the wrong signal regarding how we intend to manage the continuing energy crisis: second. the emergency building temperature restrictions program has been effective. before going into detail on these points. let me explain my approach to the energy crisis. i have supported the decontrol of crude oil. my state is more than 70 percent dependent upon crude oil supplies. but i believe in and support the free markethowever painfulso that we can achieve a realistic appreciation of this countrys true cost of energy. by the same token. i will likely support the decontrol of natural gas. as chairman of the small business committee. i have seen what terrible burden government regulations can impose upon our free enterprise systemand wherever possible. i supoprt the elimination of unnecessary government regulation. so. i do  support ebtr out of any kneejerk reaction favoring excessive government interference or regulation of business or because i think market prcing of energy is wrong. i can support. however. the theory that market pricing is the magic wand to solving the energy crisis. there is. unhappily. single solution to tile energy crisis. but. for far too long our policy has been heavily tilted toward direct government support of and tax incentives for production of energy while iging the vast potential of conservation. the joint ecoic committee recently released a report establishing that in the past 9 years we have invested $55.6 billion for enhancement of energy supplies. whilo investing only $4.1 million in conservation efforts. someday we will realize that conservation is the cheapest way to create energy. and that is precisely what is wrong with revoking ebtr. revoking ebtr says that conservation can contribute to solving the energy crisis. so. the administration. perhaps unintentionally. sends out the signal that we can do without conservation. it sends that signal to the american consumer who is  digesting very substantial price increases through crude oil deregulation. it sends that signal to the international energy agency which llust be wondering anew what kind of cominitinent. if any. this country has to reducing its reliance upon foreign oil. worst of all. it sends the signal to opec inyiting further price increases. it invites opec to reduce its output. to play havoc with our markets. the simple fact is that we have little or emergency preparedness for the next opec reduction or cutoff of supplies. removing ebtr only means we will be that much less well prepared for tihe next opec oil cutoff. over the past 8 years we have been subjected to three significant opec oil interruptions. the next one could come tomorrow. the next one could be total. and. we will  be prepared. ebtr is hardly the entire answer to emergency preparedness. ebtr is hardly the entire answer to energy conservation. but revoking ei3tr telegraphs a signal to opec. to iea. and to the american consumer that conservation does  count. thats the wrong signal to send. since july 1979. when the program was put in place. it affected 2.8 million buildings. it exempted restaurants. hotels. hospitals. food stores. it even exempted laundromats. it only required that temperatures in other commercial buildings be set at 65" in the winter and 78 in the stunmer. that. my colleagues. is  sacrifice. it is a positive. if modest. coinservation commitment. last year tinder senator percys leadership. the senate governmental affairs committee conducted an livestigation of ebtr. that investigation explored the possibility of altering the temperature requirements 65/78 to 68 / 74 and concluded: furthermore. to alter the standards would send a signal to the american public and the rest of the world that this government perceives the need for conservation to have diminishedin effect. that the energy crisis is  a serious matter. so.  a new administration comes along and in the face of a senate investigation stating that an alteration of temperature requirements would send the wrong signal. totally eliminates the program. the administration has revoked ebtr because it "imposes an excessive regulatory burden." let me tell you about that "excessive regulatory burden." during the 19 months the program was in effect. there were roughly 50.000 building inspections. but those 50.000 inspections produced penalties. fines. indictments. this program did  send an energy gestapo into the streets of america. ebtr has. however. given building owners and operators the necessary guidelines and approaches to control costs and avoid preenergy crisis lease requirements establishing "comfortable temperatures." i submit that ebtr hardly meets any reasonable test to be identified as an "excessive regulatory burden." e13tr ias been it wise partnership between government and the private sector. the proper role for government is to lead. guide. and directto do so benignly whenever possible. to do so vigorously when necessary. s 15:37 ebtr is an example of benign leadership. revoking ebtr simply says the government does  care any more. that the government is prepared to abdicate its leadership role in energy conservation with the result that market pricing can willynilly dictate who freezes and who fries. that is  leadership. it may be good campaign rhetoric. but it is  leadership. the second appropriate test for ebtr is its effectiveness in addressing our energy crisis. the most recent analysis. one prepared by the argonne national labs last ember and updated through the 4th of this month. indicates that ebtr has been saving 384.000 barrels of oil equivalent a day140 million barrels of oil equivalent a year. at an average cost of $30 per barrel over the 19 months of the program this reduction in consumption translates into a savings of $4.2 billion. let me cite two examples. first. american telephone & telegraph ha~s had this very program in effect since 1973. a.t. & t. claims that its program. identical to ebtr. has reduced energy consumption by 7 percent since 1973. and that it has saved the equivalent of 23 million barrels of oil since 1973. for a total dollar savings of $800 million. a second example: pan american world airways strictly enforced ebtr at its j. f. kennedy airport buildings. and in 1 year. from july 1970 to july 1980. pan am calculates a 33percent reduction of heating and cooling consumption worth nearly $300.000 and has add.. tionally reduced its energy maintenance costs by more than $400.000. to recap nationally: 140 million barrels of oil saved per year. more than we have in our strategic petroleum reserve. balance of payments cut by $4.2 billonat a total cost to the taxpayer of $9.2 million over 19 months. these figures have been effectively confirmed by senator percys investigation which summarized its findings:
. on march 17 i annced a hearing before the energy conservation and supply subcommittee. at this time. i would like to reschedule the hearing at 9 a.m. rather than 9:30 a.m. as previously annced. the hearing will be held on april 6. 1981. in room 3100 of the dirksen senate office building.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply has scheduled hearings on s. 1166. the national home weatherization act. the hearings will be held on wednesday. july 15. at 10 a.m. in room 3110 of the dirksen senate office building.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply has scheduled hearings on 8. 506 to reinstate and validate u.s. oil and gas leases numbered ocsp0218 and
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to receive testimony on the department of the interiors outer continental shelf 5year oil and gas leasing plan. this oversight hearing will be held on wednesday. september 8. beginning at 9:30 a.m. in room 3110 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. room 3104 dirksen senate office building. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. gary barbour of the subcommittee staff at 2240613.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to receive testimony on the revised constitution of american samoa. this oversight hearing will be held on tuesday. may 8. beginning at 2:30 p.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. jim beirne or ms. becky barbour of the subcommittee staff at 2242504.
. i would like to annce for the informalion of the senate and the public that the oversight. hearing regarding outer continental shelf leasing acthities previously scheduled before th subcommittee on energy conservation and supply for tuesday. june 26 at 10 a.m. has been canceled. for further information rcgarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. allen stayman of the subromiltte staff at 2242366. snvivommit"tft: on public1.ands and resfi.ll1 water
. i should like to speak briefly on a number of issues relating to h.r. 5946. legislation which would postpone certain requirements of the commercial and apartment conservation service [cacs] and extend the ification requirements under the residential conservation service [rcs]. on august 1. 1984 the housepassed version of this bill was referred to the senate committee on energy and natural resources. it was then subsequently referred to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. which i chair. my initial review of this legislation indicated that it would make several major modifications to existing law. it would repeal the cacs program. it would substantially alter the rcs program and it would provide certain protections for small businesses against competition from utilities. both the rcs and cacs programs direct the involvement of utilities in energy conservation. this involvement has raised some serious questions about competition between public utilities and the private sector. in fact. on ember 3. 1983. i held hearings in the small . business committee to receive testimony on this complex issue. h.r. 5946. as passed by the house. also makes substantial changes to the rcs pro- gram. for example. the bill would au- thorize each state or individual utility s to develop an alternative energy conservation plan that could replace the current rcs program within that e state. it was my opinion. after an inie tial review of these and other provisions of h.r. 5946 that there was in. sufficient time remaining in the 98th t congress to properly consider the t bills small business protections and its n other conservation service modifications. the bill addresses complex it issues which require careful considern ation. it without any legislation the depart.e ment of energy will proceed with the implementation of the cacs program and the ification requirement of the rcs program will terminate on january 1. 1985. on september 12. 1984. the energy committee adopted an amendment in the nature of a substitute which would defer implementation of the cacs program and extend the ification requirements of the rcs program until january 1. 1986. the effect of the substitute would be to freeze the status quo anid give the committee time to properly review both of these programs and make considered recommendations to the senated during the 99th congress. i feel that this substitute amendment is the best alternative to resolve this matter in -the short term and in consideration of the lack of time remaining in this congress. i urge my colleagues to support its passage.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public the scheduling of a public hearing before the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply to receive testimony on the revised constitution of american samoa. this oversight hearing will be held on tuesday. may 8. beginning at 2:30 p.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. those wishing to testify or who wish to submit written statements for the hearing record should write to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. committee on energy and natural resources. u.s. senate. washington. d.c. 20510. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. jim beirne or ms. becky barbour of the subcommittee staff at 2242504.
. i would like to annce for the informalion of the senate and the public that the oversight. hearing regarding outer continental shelf leasing acthities previously scheduled before th subcommittee on energy conservation and supply for tuesday. june 26 at 10 a.m. has been canceled. for further information rcgarding this hearing. you may wish to contact mr. allen stayman of the subromiltte staff at 2242366. snvivommit"tft: on public1.ands and resfi.ll1 water
. i should like to speak briefly on a number of issues relating to h.r. 5946. legislation which would postpone certain requirements of the commercial and apartment conservation service [cacs] and extend the ification requirements under the residential conservation service [rcs]. on august 1. 1984 the housepassed version of this bill was referred to the senate committee on energy and natural resources. it was then subsequently referred to the subcommittee on energy conservation and supply. which i chair. my initial review of this legislation indicated that it would make several major modifications to existing law. it would repeal the cacs program. it would substantially alter the rcs program and it would provide certain protections for small businesses against competition from utilities. both the rcs and cacs programs direct the involvement of utilities in energy conservation. this involvement has raised some serious questions about competition between public utilities and the private sector. in fact. on ember 3. 1983. i held hearings in the small . business committee to receive testimony on this complex issue. h.r. 5946. as passed by the house. also makes substantial changes to the rcs pro- gram. for example. the bill would au- thorize each state or individual utility s to develop an alternative energy conservation plan that could replace the current rcs program within that e state. it was my opinion. after an inie tial review of these and other provisions of h.r. 5946 that there was in. sufficient time remaining in the 98th t congress to properly consider the t bills small business protections and its n other conservation service modifications. the bill addresses complex it issues which require careful considern ation. it without any legislation the depart.e ment of energy will proceed with the implementation of the cacs program and the ification requirement of the rcs program will terminate on january 1. 1985. on september 12. 1984. the energy committee adopted an amendment in the nature of a substitute which would defer implementation of the cacs program and extend the ification requirements of the rcs program until january 1. 1986. the effect of the substitute would be to freeze the status quo anid give the committee time to properly review both of these programs and make considered recommendations to the senated during the 99th congress. i feel that this substitute amendment is the best alternative to resolve this matter in -the short term and in consideration of the lack of time remaining in this congress. i urge my colleagues to support its passage.
. i want to commend the distinguished senator from idaho. the chairman of the senate energy committee. for both his leadership in the energy committee. which has been a fair and impartial leadership. and for the statement indicating aher one of the deficiencies in the amendment before us. having said that. i want to reiterate my admiration of the senator from colorado who in the past has always been in the forefront of conservation measures. i repeat what was alluded to by the senator from idaho in this sense: what faces us is a national problem. and it is of emous dimensions. it will  find its resolution in any parochial attitude. whether it was the parochial attitude of my part of the country when it wanted controls. or in the sense of this import fee. which is going to impact on my part of the country and have little impact on those who live in the oil producing states. i would hope that we would continue to pursue the conservation effort. whether by virtue of fuel efficient engines. whether by virtue of the 55mileperhour speed limit. whether by virtue of the petroleum reserve. which the senator from idaho has been pointed out. we have been talking about letting things slide. we have let that slide. i could go down a whole list of measures that should be taken if indeed we are to avoid any sort of an impact by outside nations. be they arab or canada or mexico. i do  care. i want our own domestic industry to be strong and to be able to weather any kind of a challenge posed to the united states. but this is  the answer. the answer is going to have to be a national answer. i would hope that would come to pass very soon. i would hope this amendment is defeated.
. this letter summarizes a number of my reservations. my major objections to relying on utilities for either providing the insulation or providing the conservation financing are. that the utilities. with their protected mooly status. would be moving into new areas of enterprise. there is proven value to the consumer in such an ecoic arrangement. most home insulation is installed on a doityourself basis. and of course the labor costs the homeowner hing. if utilities must install installation to have it certified. clearly the cost of labor would be added. in addition. the utilities have particular incentive to keep costs down as they are regulated and can recover their costs. also. the ftc and the department of justice have raised serious questions about the antitrust issues raised by such a program. second. such a scheme requires individuals who have reinsulated their homes in the last 30 months without receiving any of the tax incentives or special loan programs with which we are  trying to equip those who- would like to conserve energy in the future. i fully recognize and endorse the need and the attempt to encourage as much home insulation and other energy conservation improvements in existing residential and commercial buildings as our market can possibly produce. for that very.reason. 2 years ago i introduced the proposal that a tax credit be made available for homeowners who insulate. in this congress i have reintroduced that measure and expanded it to include homeowners. small businesses. and those who install  only insulation and heating system improvements. but also solar and wind energy systems. i believe. however. that while tax incentives can be most effective in helping "prime" the market. the problem of supplying the necessary capital for building owners to be able to take advantage of those tax incentives still is with us. for that reason i feel that. where lowcost loan money can be made available readily. the government should undertake to do so. the energy conservation investment act of 1977. which i am introducing today. provides precisely such a source of capital. it does it. however. in a manner which encourages diversity in the marketplace and strengthens the efforts of states. local governments. and individual building owners. this measure would put into law principles i hold very dear. namely. that our energy systems be as diversified and decentralized as possible. that we  rely solely on centrally generated sources of energy. but rather that the energy sector include diverse suppliers of power and hardware. a variety of onsite energy sources as well as central generating systems. and a variety of energy conservation equipment and services. my bill provides that the treasury borrow money and establish a revolving fund administered by the secretary of hud. hud will require that govers present a plan for distributing and utilizing the lowcost moneys which will be made available from the fund. upon presentation of the state plan. hud will make available loan moneys which will be repaid over a 25year period the governments cost of borrowing plus a inal fee for the servicing required. to implement the program of loans. the govers may designate state agencies. local agencies. private lending institutions and/or public utilities to evaluate and distribute loan applications. owners of residential and commercial buildings may take out such loans as are necessary to bring their buildings up to national energy performance standards. the states will also provide a system of "energy audits" which are to resemble an expanded version of current state conservation programs. however. states may train and designate other agencies. such as local governments. fueloil dealerships. utilities. and other technically qualified experts to .perform energy audits on buildings. such energy audits will  only inform the building owners as to whether or  certain energy conservation improvements are needed. but they will also become a basis for later evaluating whether or  building owners should pay penalties because of continued energy waste. the last part of the bill mandates a study to be performed within 6 months after enactment by the secretary of iud. alternative forms of penalties of compliance with building energy performance standards are to be explored. if our nation is to be truly serious about energy conservation. the outcome of the tax credit programs and the lowcost loan programs which we are enacting must be that owners of buildings are eventually required to meet high standards of energy conservation. my colleague in the house. congressman henry reuss. the chairman of the house banking. housing and urban affairs committee. has proposed a bill that is somewhat similar to this. it too would use the governments borrowing power to put substantial capital into the energy conservation market. when he introduced his bill. chairman reuss also discussed the need for penalties and suggested several inative approaches which i believe should be pursued in the study which my legislation mandates. for example. he suggested and i endorse. the study of the concept of a possible dual pricing system by electric and gas utilities. heating customers whose buildings meet high energy performance standards would be charged the average cost of fuel while customers whose buildings do  meet such standards would. after a certain time. be charged the marginal cost of replacement fuel. i feel. however. that a number of other potential penalty approaches should be studied. including the imposition of a general federal btu excise tax on heating fuels. furthermore. it is essental. before we begin a system of rewards and penalties which will require enforcement mechanisms to be put in place. that we find out exactly what the market for insulation arld home heating system equipment will bear. how much labor there is to do the job. and how the energy auditing systems can best perform. although i anticipate that the "carrot" approach embodied in the legislation i am filing today will itself provide a substantial incentive to conserve the energy whose cost is rapidly escalating. i also believe that a large part of its significance lies in the fact that in the long run it will become mandatory for owners to meet such standards. of course. it is important to build flexibility in such a program so that unrealistic requirements are imposed and so that person is forced to endure genuine ecoic hardship. but i believe that the reality of our energy crisis and the inevitability of personal sacrifice is at last being accepted by our people. such measures as this proposal i make today can give us the tools to do the job of conserving our resources soon and effectively.
. i also have some deep concerns over the regulations applicable to regulated utilities as well. section 102(e) contains requirements for the energy conservation plan proposed by a regulated utility. as i see it. there are only four things that are required that the plan contain: first. a utility plan as described in section 103. second. procedures for annual reporting to the administrator: third. procedures for coordination of its programs with those of state. local. and federal governments. and fourth. it meets other requirements that may be prescribed in the rules promulgated under section 102(a). it is  clear from this provision that regulated utilities will be required to do any of the following: implement a program to prevent unfair. deceptive. or anticompetitive acts or practices in its programing. my first question is: is there the provision that regulated utilities will be required to implement a program to prevent unfair deceptive or anticompetitive acts and practices in these programs.
. the alaska lands bill represents the most significant land and wildlife conservation plan ever presented to the american people. we must  foresake our obligation to implement a thorough and ecologically sound plan. and. unless we place sufficient amounts of land under the "wilderness" designation. we will  succeed in accomplishing that goal. i will fight as hard as i can to pass this amendment when and if the bill passed by the senate energy committee is considered before the full senate in the remaining legislative sessions of this congress. i urge my colleagues to join me in passing this important provision.
. i would like to call the attention of the senate to the new initiative undertaken in new york city by a leader in private business to conserve fuel in this time of shortage. new york citys biggest landlord. samuel j. lefrak. on october 23. 1973. annced a sweeping fuel oil and energy conservation program for the 60.000 apartments his firm controls in new york city. some 250.000 tenants will be affected. mr. lefrak indicates that his most conservative projections indicate immediate savings of more than 10 million gallons of oil this winter and dollar savings of more than $2 million and that the nation could offset oil savings of 10 to 15 percent by following similar procedures. the lefrak organization intends to give any money saved back to tenants in the form of a cash rebate. they will be compared. by computer. the fuel costs per building of last year based on degree days. with the costs of this year to determine any savings. the fuel oil conservation program is  being carried out by the lefrak organizations management and maintenance staffs which have been heavily augmented in order to carry out the crash program. these are some of the steps they are taking: all washing machinesthey number in the thousandsin lefrak buildings are being converted to cold water machines. cold water cleansers will be used in all machines. an early warning system covering heating and hot water has been linked to a computer in order to eliminate waste. all boilers are being overhauled. most are getting new combustion chambers and controls. all boiler safety valves. tubes. and condensation pumps are being checked for leakage. new thermostats and controls are being installed in boiler rooms. all windows and doors in apartments are being weatherstripped and caulked. all radiators in apartments are being checked and defective air valves are being replaced. all exposed steam and hot water pipes in buildings are being insulated. vestibules are under construction for service entrances and all doors are being made selfclosing so that a minimum of cold air can enter buildings. garage and bulkhead windows are being checked and defective windows are being replaced. and open windows in boiler and laundry rooms are being sealed. these steps are seen as eliminating waste and stressing the "reuse" of fuel oil. all reclamation heat transfer units are being installed where possible including early smoke alarm system. mr. lefrak is also asking his tenants to take a number of heat savings steps: close doors promptly to retain heat. keep doors closed in room with open windows. check decorative radiator covers to see that they are  trapping heat. place a sheet of aluminum foil between radiator and cold wall so that heat will be reflected back into the room. check that radiators are painted with enamel paint. metallic or flat paint cuts radiator efficiency by as much as 25 percent. keep dust from accumulating on radiators or baseboards since this cuts heat efficiency. remove rugs and furniture from areas where they block radiators and registers. avoid unnecessary use of hot water. and during winter daylight hours leave windows which face sun unshaded in order to get natural heat. each building superintendent will be in charge of carrying out the fuel conservation program in his building and incentive bonuses will be paid to the superintendents so that they will profit from increased heating efficiency. lefrak apartment house will have a "fuel conservation ombudsman." who will be an interested tenant with the task of educating other tenants on how to save on heat. lefrak also intends to save electric power by switching to a single cycle system and by using low voltage fluorescent. sulfur. and mercury lighting instead of conventional incandescent lighting. during hot weather. lefrak has indicated he will cut down on airconditioning by using solar glass. insulated window shades and laminated window heat diffusers. a recent story in the new york times pointed out that the united states. whose pheenal industrial growth and prosperity have been fueled by abundant. cheap energy. is being forced to reconsider its power energy way of life. underheated homes could be a harbinger of closed schools. curtailed public transport. factory shutdowns. dimmed outdoor lighting. and less pleasure driving. if other landlords and homeowners would follow some of the practices of the lefrak organization with regard to energy conservation it would materially help our country in its effort to save fuel and blunt the efforts of those who seek to limit the u.s. supply of fuel for strictly political reasons.
i would like to say  only do i support it. but i would like to testify to the critical nature of this effort. it is a breakthrough to me.  only of helpfulness to homeowners and those who occupy homes. but critical to the conservation of energy. if there is anything in which we are derelict in this country. it is the unbelievable approach with respect to energy. even in so simple a matter as this. where the fea estimates they can save 130 million barrels of oil per year. when we realize we are paying about 300 percent more for oil than we should. the only way to really break the opec grip on us is conservation. that is really the way. we will  find oil in this country soon egh to affect this blasting drain on us and every poor country in the world. in addition to the developing countries. it is shocking and shameful to me that our country has been so insensitive to conservation. i am grateful to the senator from massachusetts for raising this issue as he is. i hope very much we will have an appropriate response from our beloved friend. the chairman of the finance committee.
. i bring to the attention of our colleagues an article appearing in the "point of view" section of last sundays new york times. march 21. 1976. by dennis hayes. the article. entitled "conservation as a major energy source" highlights some of the many areas where conservation measures can be utilized to bring major nearterm results toward energy independence. mr. hayes has written an excellent paper for the worldwatch institute on the same subject called. "energy: the case for conservation." which was supported by the federal energy administration. of which this article is a part. each piece shows that our concentration on methods of increasing energy supply is  the optimum emphasis . that we could save more than any increased supply amounts through ecoic conservation measures that are environmentally beneficial and job creating as well. i am  suggesting that we let up in our search for better methods of producing our traditional fuels or for alternative sources that will provide us with energy in the future. in fact. i believe some of these efforts. particularly with regard to the use of our vast resources of coal. and with the use of unlimited potential from solar power. should be pursued even more vigorously and urgently. but conservation methods have barely begun to tap the available energy savings. the measures legislated in the energy policy and conservation act. while welcome and important. only scratch the surface. other specific measures will provide further incentives to conserve. such as the building standards and lowincome insulation assistance provisions of the recently passed energy conservation in buildings act. h.r. 8650. however. many other legislative actions are needed if we are to achieve any significant part of the vast conservation potential that lies before us. as illustrated by the examples in the hayes article. among those measures that i believe are necessary are passage of the energy conservation act of 1976. which provides loan assistance to homeowners and small businessmen for insulation and other conservation equipment. the brooke amendment to provide a partial tax credit for home insulation materials. and erda authorization that puts emphasis on conservation r. & d. and a loan program to enable business to develop new and inative ideas in the conservation field. the attached article brings to light some of the benefits of conservation and its huge potential. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. here in washington we have witnessed the cause of what may turn out to be the most severe natural gas shortages in the nations history. the abmally severe cold weather that is gripping the entire th central and theast sections of the country is making demands on our limited natural gas supplies that simply can be met. schools and factories are closing. businesses are cutting back their hours of operation. and residential users are being asked to turn their thermostats down to 55 degrees. in what i believe is an unprecedented action by the federal power commission. pipelines have been told that interruptions to homes will be allowed. as many in this chamber will recall. we faced a very similar situation 1 and even 2 years ago. last year. in response to considerably less severe shortages. the senate passed an emergency natural gas supply bill that would have permitted pipelines to secure temporary emergency supplies by going directly into the intrastate market and purchasing gas at unregulated prices. i supported that concept and believe we must take similar action  if we are to have any chance to ease the situation this winter and prevent aher. and possible worse. shortage next year. unfortunately. the emergency provisions became entangled last year with the debate over permanent natural gas pricing. despite efforts by myself and others. we could  separate the emergency from the permanent provisions. with the result that the entire bill became deadlocked and useful measure was enacted. i hope we have learned that lesson. we can continue to let. the controversy over natural gas deregulation become the cause of further natural gas shortages. senator randolph has introdficed a bill. s. 271. very similar to the one adopted last year. that could help greatly during this emergency period. i urge that bill be used in an effort to move directly and quickly on this problem to embroil ourselves over the pricing issue until after we have legislated some partial solution to the present emergency. on a parallel track. i want to reaffirm my commitment to the concept of tax credits for residential energy conservation efforts by homeowners and apartment owners. last year. in the tax reform bill. we passed provisions for such conservation incentives. unfortunately. they were stricken from the bill in conference. chairman long promised to .january. 25. 1977 co take action separately. and a bill was reported. h.r. 6860. to grant tax credit incentives for many energy conservation measures. but the bill never reached the floor. we must move quickly on this issue again this year. senator griffin has introduced a bill that  only provides these incentives to homeowners but. also provides additional incentives to utilities to market insulation materials to their customers. i believe the entire residential conservation effort depends on the active involvement of the utilities and the fuel oil marketers. and until they are given reason to sell conservation materials. we may be doomed to failure. i believe that the assurances provided to utilities in s. 198 will spur their involvement in conservation and save us millions of cubic feet of natural gas and many -thousands of barrels of oil. each is precious and we should do all that is feasible to preserve and conserve them.
