. it is difficult to get away from raw partisanship. given the constitution. practice. tradition. or what have you. i have question at all as to the exercise of power because the democrats have the votes. the only difficulty is that this is  a matter that belongs to.the democratic party or the republican party. it belongs to the american people. i have difficulty with my own party with regard to what i think is impropriety. just as i do with the democratic party. as has been pointed out so ably by the senator from new jersey what is important here is that the american people believe the work product of this committee. there is a job to be done to once again bring ho to this body and to our profession. i can subscribe to any of the high attributes given to members on the other side who are advocating this particular cause. in the past certainly they have brought dignity. ho. fairness. and bipartisanship to the issue. however. make mistake about it. they are bringing to this particular issue just the issue of partisan politics. raw partisanship. and hing more. they can quote all of the precedents in the constitution that they care to. however. we detract from this body and from the eventual work product that will come forth from the committees effort. i will have an amendment after the amendment of the senator from tennessee is disposed of which will point out the weakness in the argument of the senator from th carolina. for the present all i would say is that i see reason why the taxpayers money should be used in this particular case since this is a bipartisan effort. let the democratic caucus go ahead and appoint an ad hoc committee and let them do it and let the work product come from the democratic party. on the other hand. if it is a resolution to achieve something for the american people and root out some of the cancer in the political system in both parties. the work should be done by both parties if it is to be believed.
. as we move into debate on the bill. i would issue one more plea. time and. again. i have heard the most distinguished representatives of the south. including our colleague the senator from georgia . who is probably  only by seniority but also by intellect and force of character the leader of the southern groupspeaking only in sectional termsin the senate. his illness has distressed us all most deeply and has enlisted our prayers as well as our hopes for his early and complete recovery. i have heard this distinguished senator. as well as other distinguished senators who will be opposing the billas is their right and. indeed. their duty. if they feel the bill to be unconstitutionalrise and say. "whatever you might argue about public accommodation. education. jobs. fepc. or housing. one thing we would never argue with and that is that every american is entitled to his vote." i hope very much that in debate on the bill. senators will think about that. and will remember that in this matterwhatever may be the differing views as to the method of implementation which we have chosenit is hard to see how. in view of the constitution and the declared policy of great representatives of a large section of our country. they can fail to feel that we are engaged in a cooperative effort moving toward a single objective. namely. to find a way in which. at long last. the denial of the voting rightwhere it has been deniedwill be corrected.
