i say to the distinguished senator from illis that i respect his views. but the fact is he was on the short side. by a count of 57 to 9. on this particular issue. that is  what we are debating right . that has been well resolved by this chamber. what is at issue here is. having said owe are  being asked. under very perilous circumstances for the people of this country. to backtrack. because one body has voted themselves an increase. they voted over there an increase for themselvesand they have been very consistent on that subject. the senator from illis has also been very consistent. he voted for an increase. over there. he would have won. here. he lost. what is at issue. i think. and this is why all of us in this chamber felt as strongly as we did when we voted on this previously. is the setting of the example of selfsacrifice. it has hing to do with inflation or the dollars that are involved. it is selfscarifice. indeed. at a time when ody at all wants to make sacrifices. in the sense of energy and ecoically. the senate of the united states was going to rise to the particular occasionin this case. the ecoic debacle of this nationand say. "ok. for the time being . we are going to go ahead and do our job. we are  out there to pick up the bucks." the problem is that we were so strong in that position. and i think we were believed throughout the nation. . in its usual way. it is going to come to pass that this posture is going to abandoned. that indeed. this was done as a matter of tradeoffs. do you realize how preposterous. outside of this chamber. it is to be talking about tradeoffs between pay raises and abortion. that might sound mal here. but it just sounds plain nuts on the street. that is what has been going ontradeoffs. the problem is. gentlemen. we had tradeoff. senator harry f. byrd. jr.. got tradeoff. his position was dropped. it is  a $750 million cut in travel funds but rather a $500 million cut. in the abortion language. it is the house language a couple of words changed. and the pay increaseeverything just as the house of representatives wanted.  it is  that we are asked to support the house position by virtue of logic. but by virtue of their act of holding the american people hostage. theirs is going to be a successful act. that is it. pure and simple. i have a feeling that there are egh brains. egh ability. egh ingenuity here on the floor. and that there are egh days in this weekend to figure a way around this. so i ask my colleagues to reject the conference report. to take a position based on principle. i do  think i have ever been so proud of this chamber as i was for what it did over the past couple of weeks. it would have been very easy to go home. to drop this whole matter and say we were forced to it. but we stuck to our guns. i do  think the time to bend is . maybe we can  only set an example within these hallswhich i think is very important. we have started to stand up for principle. which is very important for the american people as a whole.
