. i am pleased today to join in cosponsoring the civil rights restoration act of 1987. - this legislation is needed in order to clarify the broad scope of coverage of our nations civil rights laws. when we as a nation give money to a program. we ask that it be conducted fairly. intelligently. and hoably. federal funds should  subsidize discriminationit is that simple. the legislation that we introduce today says just that. in the last 20 years we have made significant strides toward eliminating discrimination in a variety of important areas.  is  the time to turn back. for 3 years . since the supreme courts decision in grove city versus bell. we have. been trying to restore credibility to this nations civil rights laws. in 1984 the supreme court adopted a narrow interpretation of title ix of the education amendments of 1972. the courts decision limited the governments ability to enforce civil rights laws in federally supported institutions. by applying sanctions only to the specific program affectedcollege athletics. for instancerather than to the entire institution. unfortunately. this narrow interpretation applied  only to title ix of the educational amendments of 1972. but also to three other important civil rights laws: title iv of the civil rights act of 1964. section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. and the age discrimination act of 1975. this countrys greatest achievement. freedom and dignity for all. wasand still isin critical danger. and so. 3 years ago. we set out to clarify the scope of these laws. our sole purpose was to provide institution wide protection against discrimination based  only upon sex. but upon race. national origin. disability. and age. but the road to the introduction of this corrective measure has been long and troubled. there were numerous concerns that previously introduced versions might broaden. the coverage of these laws beyond their effect prior to the grove city decision. these concerns have  been addressed. and the relevant provisions tightened. this legislation does exactly what it was intended -to dorestore civil rights protection to the level that existed before the grove city decision. there were concerns that the measure would have adverse effect on persons whom we never intended to reach. there was a fear. for instance. that corner grocery storeowners who accept food stamps would be deemed subject to the rehabilitation act and be forced to erect ramps and electric doors in order to provide equal access under the new legislation. such concerns have been addressed in the bill we are introducing today. there is  a specific exemption for small providers in the language of the statute. last. there was a concern that food stamp recipients. students receiving school loans. and farmers operating with federal subsidies would be subject to the law. as ultimate beneficiaries of federal funds. they. too. have  been specifically exempted in the statute. thus. we have come down a long road to the final reparation of the state of civil rights in this country. to delay is injurious. already. harm has been done. the admirable showing of the u.s. women at the 1984 olympics should have been an inspiration and catalyst for improving athletic programs for women. yet. in the wake of the grove city decision. investigation of alledged discriminatory activity at numerous universities around the country were dropped. the only parity in athletic programs that has managed to survive is that in scholarships. since they are a part of student financial aid programs and therefore have a direct link to federal funding. the handicapped whose protection was the goal of the rehabilitation act of 1973 have experienced discrimination in the workplace. in the courts. even in airports. are we going to continue to deny disabled citizens a chance to become productive members of society solely because they do  see. or because they do  walk. the children of our country. both black and white. have been injured and cheated by the segregationist schemes of some schools that have managed to separate their federal funds from their bigotry. at least on paper. the elderly. a growing population in this country. find themselves rejected from some activities. solely because of their chroogical age. a student at the university of vermont. for instance. was dismissed from the masters english program. and told she was too old to get a degree. because the english department was  federally funded. her complaint was never investigated. t an institution that receives even a single dollar of federal financial assistance can be allowed to practice we care. if they have a roof over their any form of discrimination. it is that heads. - .simple. in order for our nation to - this measure that i have the pleasmake continued progress in assuring ure of cosponsoring will help to assure equal rights for all citizens. we must that all americans have access to act immediately. it is  too much to housing. first. it provides for a fast. ask.e effective means for the enforcement
. for many years the greatest source of political wisdom in the state of connecticut has been the column of bob conrad in the new britain herald. conrad. whose pieces appear in over a dozen papers across the state. is an institution in the state capitol in hartford. he is loved by everyone who at 64. conrad has long since outgrown a ks him and is respected by his reporting style that requires crawling readers for timely and insightful com- around the upper floors of town halls and mentary on connecticut and its poll- diving into stories headfirst.  he gets tics. most of his information by prowling the halls of the state capitol. or putting his car recently. bob decided to end his to a phone instead of a pipe. but if conrad daytoday reporting for the herald in has refined his methods and broadened his order to concentrate on his weekly audience. he still has  altered the column. while we will miss his daily "howdhekthat." effect his reporting byline. it is reassuring to k that had on those three puzzled members of the his words will continue to be syndicat- southington police board and the hundreds ed t oter ewsaper. h isa jurof officials and candidates he has written ed to other newspapers. he is a jour- aotsne nalist of the highest integrity. and i aotsne wish him the best. among connecticuts political journalists. wishhim he bstit is widely conceded that conrad has develso that my colleagues and others oped the most numerous and most reliable may learn more about bob and his news sources in the state. this network. career. i submit for the record an ar- combined with his experience. news inticle by ned barnett in connecticut stincts and reputation for evenhanded remagazine on connecticuts "gentle- porting. have made him the one reporter in man of the press." connecticut most likely to get an important
. i e. as we approach the end of the session. we get into a discussion of what is going to be done about civil rights and what is going to be done about the socalled filibuster rule. i e also from the morning press that some effort is going to be made to convince us that changing rule xxii will only be conducive to getting legislation on ecoic subjects.  on civil rights. i think the record is all to the contrary. i think. if we needed any emphasis about how critically important is civil rights legislation. it is illustrated by the historic events taking place and the fantastic achievements in outer space. which remind us that the world is knitted together tighter than we thought it was. and that we had better start knitting our country tighter together in view of the critical events ahead of us. the only civil rights legislation that we have passed has to do with the field of crime and voting rights. which are very elementary rights. we still have a very large number of freedom riders arrested. and with pending cases. because we are  enforcing the discriminatory aspects of federal law and policy at airport terminals or bus terminals. the pace of school desegregation is that of a snail. with hing done in four southern states. and comparatively little done in other southern states. the administration has apparently made up its mind  to seek civil rights legislation because it might interfere with its other programs in the congress. this is appeasement and i do  think we in the congress or in the country should concern ourselves with that. i rise at this time because i think that in the light of the overriding events in space. we should accept the opportunity. which i k will be given to us by the majority leader. to unlock the door to our own restraints. which are created by the undue power given to a miity by rule xxii. before we go home from this session. in this way. we may proceed in civil rights and every other field under rules which reflect the lessons from the unprecedented events we are witnessing. it is an open secret. and every bit of evidence shows. that the discrimination and segregation problems in our own country are the greatest single item of propaganda used by the communists against us throughout the world. out of deference and respect for the unbelievable historic events which are happening . as well as to tighten up our own bonds at home as we face the unbelievable challenge in the whole world. especially from the communists. we ought to revise rule xxii. i hope that i and other senators who have been extraordinarily active in this field will raise this question in order to put this matter in focus and proceed to do something about it before this session ends. i ice present in the chamber my colleague from new york . who has been very active in this field as well as the miity leader . who is a party to the assurance of a vote on a rules change. i expect we will join together to try to unloosen the bonds that tie our hands in view of the momentous events we face. and do something effective about revising the rule of debate as covered by rule xxii. for myself i favor the douglas plan for cloture on the vote of 51 members after 15 days of debate. as called for by the rules committees favorable report of
