. has tried to make us feel that this objection even has something to do with world peace. i respectfully submit that that is kind of stretching it pretty far. but the effort has been made to tie title i in with inflation. when we help cooperative housing under title i we are  spending money for relief. we are  spending money for the purpose of buying war implements. we are spending money for the purpose of constructing homes. it has always been true in our country that new homes are the best investment that  only any individual. but that the nation itself can make. the best evidence of that is the holc. which paid back to the united states 100 cents on the dollar. because its money went into mortgages on brick. mortar. and land. its money helped to retain for individuals their homes. where you get assets for your money. that is more inflationary than when you see on the statement of the general electric co. the fact that it has a plant carried at $10.000.000 and also has $10.000.000 cash in the bank. today i should say that the plant is much better in terms of value than the money itself. one other point which is very important: we are told also that cooperative housing under title i is some new hybrid. yes. different kind of approach to the effort to solve the peoples housing needs. i do  think that is so at all. i think our own experience bears it out. suppose this were a bill to encourage or finance farmers cooperatives. you would have almost to a man everybody who stood up here and talked against this bill standing up here and advocating it as a brilliant. helpful thing for the backbone of america. the farmer. i ask why. by the same definition. are  the middleincome families. earning between $2.500 and $4.000 a year. who are still completely in the gap on hcusingwho earn too little to rent what is being newly built under existing financing and too much to live in public housingjust as good americans and just as much the backbone of the country. if the argument is valid for farm cooperatives. and the congress crossed that bridge a long time ago. and legislate in favor o. them in almost every session. is it  just as valid for cooperatives for the city dwellers. it has been said that title i will  help the moderate income family. but that is  so. the fact is tha it  only takes bricks and mortar and med to build houses. it also takes moneyand that money is going to be borrowed money on mortgage. it has to be borrowed for a term. in other words. it has to be amortized. mortgage money upon which you have to pay interest and which must be paid off in installments is definitely a part of the renal cst. just as much as any other cost involved. in view of the fact that we have struggled. and struggled. and struggled and have been unable to deal with the question of other costs adequately. here is an opportunity in title i to lick the cost of money. why  try it. finally. is this anything different than just aher type of financing. these bonds are going to be sold to the public and are going to be insured by the government. just like the fha loans are insured by the government. and just like crop loans are made or insured by the government. and just like in a dozen other fields obligations are insured by the government where the public interest dicates that it shall be done. let as look at the merits of the proposal. there is hing doctrinaire about cooperative housing. there is hing here that is going to undermine the country. as a matter of fact the thing about our democracy that we have to be very careful of if we really are going to withstand and to triumph over this great challenge which the communist ideology poses is that our democracy has to have flexibility. and our democracy also has to adjust its own techniques in order to meet that challenge. cooperative housing and low financing costs made available by the government to help it are perfectly legitimate techniques of democracy and we should vote for and support this title.
