i was wondering whether the senator would think. if the sanctions were liftedthe sanctions were twofold. i guess. one is that for bad state pension funds. it would prevent them from holding securities in companies that were doing business in south africa. the other was state sanctions againstor local community sanctions against purchasing any goods from companies that were doing business in south africa. if that were lifted. many of them. i wonder if many american companies would go back in. or whether in this present ecoic climate. with companies  having much money to expand. it would make that much difference.
. that is a very small use of that authority up to that time. but i point out that once we made a basic change in the arrangements by which this authority could be used. the use of it went up pheenally. i shall describe the change. but i first want to acquaint the senate with the fact that in the last 14 months. in little over a year. the utilization of this type guarantee went from the $14 million of the preceding 4 years. to $60 million in 1 year. $60 million in 1 year. with a certified expectation by aid. based on applications in hand. that next year. fiscal year 1968. there will be more than a doubling of the utilization of that type guarantee to $125 million. the change in procedure which took place was based upon the recommendation of the watson committee. which i described a moment ago. and that is the advisory committee on private enterprise and foreign aid. appointed pursuant to a provision of the foreign aid law passed by congress in 1963. the change was to allow people. other than the primary investor. to participate in the guarantees of different kinds in one investment. in other words. it was possible for a group to get together and for one element of that group to put up the equity money. that for which there was guarantee or specific risk guarantee. that is. for calamities or civil disorder. then. it was possible for afiother group to put up part of the investment and to be covered by extended risk guarantee. that is. of all except insurable risks or those attributable to fraud or misconduct. then. there could be a third group. with guarantee at all. or with a different form extended risk guarantee. to wit. a guarantee of equity capital. which only guaranteed 50 percent of it. as soon as that change was put into effect the use of these guarantees skyrocketed. and with it the tremendous use of a program to stimulate overseas investment. therefore. in the 14 months from the end of 1965. in which that program really began to be used. the extended risk guarantee program resulted in about $250 million or more of investment directly attributable to the more intelligent use of that guarantee. the reason for its success at that point was that it became possible for different types of banking institutions to participate in these respective investments in a manner congenial to their attributions and responsibilities. for example. commercial banks could finance part of a longterm investment and get a guarantee of specific risk rather than extended risk in the early time of the investments life when it was possible intelligently to forecast the risks which were being run and. therefore. a prudent lender would be willing to accept specific guarantees. that is. acts of god beyond the control of the parties. the commercial banks went into that business. the remainder of it. that is the longer term aspect of the investment. was taken on by insurance companies. pension funds. and other investors of a longterm character whose investment was made less hazardous or  hazardous at all by the fact that they could get extended risk guarantee for the longer period. which it was more difficult to foretell. it was this combination of techniques which has been recommended by the watson committee which brought about tremendous utilization of this type investment. that is what brings us to the present amendment because the committee is proposing to drastically and basically change the statutory plan which has made possible this totally new unprecedented and very desirable use of the extended risk guarantee. up to . in the law. it was possible to use the extended risk guarantee in order to guarantee 75 percent on an investment. the other 25 percent could be guaranteed for a specific risk. as i have described. they  propose to cut that 75 percent for investments. which are represented by our own. down to 50 percent. that makes all the difference between use and use. we have two bases of evidence. one is organic. and that is in the business aspects of it. and the other is the testimony of those who engage in this kind of lending. as to the organic. i have described the new technique which is being employed for pension funds. insurance companies. and other longterm investors into the use of extended risk guarantees. if we cut it from 75 percent. we cut down the number of years of longterm loans which could be subjected to the extended risk guarantee. because the percentage of the loan sold in later years becomes diminished by the reduction of the size of the guarantee. we project ahead longer than longterm institutional investors will take a chance for. without the extended risk guarantee. on the other hand. it is longer than commercial banks can lend for. or can look forward to in terms of credit worthiness. it is that gap which is created. in a 15year loan. let us say. there is a gap of 3 to 6 years. it is that gap which will take the insurance companies and the pension funds out of this business and then. eliminate for all practical purposes. as was eliminated in the years 1961 through 1965. inclusive. the use of the extended risk guarantee. these are the ecoics of the situation. it is for that reason that the banks. insurance companies. and the great financial institutions of this countrywhich alone are capable of engaging in lending upon this scale and for this length of timehave come to us and said. "sure. you can do it. but if you do it. we are out of this business. you have destroyed a very effective scheme grounded on the guarantee plan which has resulted in a very considerable increase in overseas private investments. with all the resultant benefits to the policy of the united states. to its exports. and to its general mission in the world."
. i shall  endeavor to make an extended argument with respect to this matter. as it seems almost selfexplanatory from the disposition shown by the senate yesterday. the fact is that the senate yesterday decided that it wished to retain the interest of banks and pension funds in the extended risk guarantee program as a means for facilitating overseas private investment in developing countries. having decided that. we must  determine what are the time elements within which projects which involve these guarantees may be planned. the authoritative statement we have from all the banking and insurance institutions and pension funds which are involved is that the time element is of such a character that the extension given by the committeewhich in the committee was consistent with its feeling against the use of the extended risk guaranteeis inadequate. to make possible the best use of this program at least aher year is requiredto wit. the june 30. 1970. dateto enable projects of this character to be planned according to the leadtime which is required in planning such investment opportunities in the developing countries. it seems to me that this follows immediately the end sweep from the view expressed by the senate yesterday. and that is why i called it up as the amendment next in line to the one which the senate had decided yesterday.
. i thoroughly subscribe to that. i shall devote my efforts in every way toward bringing it about. and i would  like to ask the chairman of the senate conferees. the senator from wisconsin . if i may have his attention. a few questions. first. does he. as chairman of the subcommittee on employment. manpower and poverty of the committee on labor and public welfare. which has jurisdiction of legislation concerning the legal services program. share my desire to proceed at the earliest opportunity with legislation to establish a legal services corporation
i thank the senator for his explanation. i am very glad that this provision was included. it would. in my judgment. be most unfortunate and inequitable if we were to permit a fortuitous sequence of events to determine the insurability of vested rights. in other words. one man would have his vested right insured because there was a permanent plant shutdown prior to plan termination. but the other man would  have his vested right insured because the plant shutdown occurred at the same time the pension plan itself was terminated. i commend the senator from wisconsin for his foresight in including such a provision that would enable the insurance corporation to deal with this problem.
. before turning in greater detail to the provisions of my bill. i want to e that this measure is  exhaustive and allinclusive. there are many matters which have  been addressed at this time and which deserve legislative attention. for example. erisa title iv matters relating to the plan termination insurance program have  been addressed because we are waiting for the recommendations of the pension benefit guaranty corporation which are due on july 1. a portability proposal has  been advanced because further work is necessary to develop a workable program. my bill should also  be considered the final word on the subjects which have been addressed. i am open to constructive recommendations regarding the proposals i have made and will do my utmost to consider all sides as we work toward a fair and just resolution of the issues before us.
. will the senator hear me as an old lawyer and a tried and true legislator. hing is going to happen unless the united states shows it is going to act. i have run a lot of deals in my time. and the senator has run some too. there are some things that lean on each other. i can tell the senator from long experience with new york that if he wants to see the unions and the pension funds and the banks and the state and all of these elements come together. they will have to k that the united states is going to act. otherwise. i promise you. sir. they will remain apart. that is the cement that is going to put them together. it is extremely fortuitous. senator. that i was on the floor at the moment when you spoke. i am giving you my very best judgment. unless it is clearly indioated that the united states is going to act in this matter affirmatively. i have the gravest doubts that all of these things will come together. but if. as conditions proceed. the united states indicates that it will act. then i think you will see them all tomorrow talking together. and i will tell you something. you yourself. senator. will be the principal architect. if you take it in hand it will happen. if you do  take it in hand. i have grave doubts about it.
