. there are two points i would like to make. first. if this amendment is  adopted. the ability of a town to enforce a violation of its local zoning ordinance. which it has for everything else. is  present. unless they pay compensation in this case for a billboard. if a billboard is  a conforming use. there is hing they can do about it. under this legislation. they can do something about it. second. i would like to ask the distinguished junior senator from louisiana a question. this pertains to the house bill. it is my understanding that the house bill permits the use of only onequarter of 1 percent of specified categories of highway funds for the purchase of billboards by a state. am i correct.
an organizing committee for the fair has already been established by mayor wagner. and plans are under way for the financing of the exposition by private investment and business and commercial interests in new york city and elsewhere. it is expected that gover rockefeller and the state of new york as well as the federal government. will give full cooperation. the fairs sponsors estimate that some 70 million people will attend the fair. a figure far in excess of the 45 million who visited the 193940 exposition. some 10 million or more of the visitors are expected to come from canada. mexico. and other foreign nations. and will. it is estimated. spend between $1 billion and $2 billion of the $6 billion expected to be spent by the fairs visitors. the 1964 new york worlds fair will serve  only as a showcase of america for all those who will visit it but it will also serve to attract foreigners to our shores to visit the rest of the united states along with the fair. this is an excellent followup to visit u.s.a. year. 1960. and will go a long way toward making this country a truly international tourist attraction. in its 300 years of existence new york city has grown from a colonial village to the worlds leading metropolitan area and seaport of 7 million people. it has been the gateway for millions of immigrants who came to make the united states their future home. each year its water and air facilities handle cargo measured in millions of tons and valued at billions of dollarg. it is an outstanding center in learning. research and culture. the 1964 fair has the enthusiastic endorsement of all segments of new york citys varied and active life. foreign governments as well as private exhibitors will participate. . i think it is a great ho for my colleague and myself to have the privilege of introducing the joint resolution for new yorks 1964 world fair. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution. which i am today introducing be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the presentation of the port of new york authority of this project. including its letter of transmittal to the govers of new jersey and new york and the mayor of the city of new york. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record editorials from the new york herald tribune and the new york times on this subject.
. i should like to introduce to my colleagues in the senate. with the gracious permission of the majority leader. a number of parliamentarians from brazil who are here on a very interesting mission of friendship and concord with our country. it is their purpose to bring about the organization of an informal interparliamentary group. which will do its utmost to stimulate the maximum amount of tourism and cultural exchange between the united states and brazil. with the maximum pleasure and profit to the peoples of both countries. i have the ho to introduce. from our very great friend and. i believe. the bastion of freedom on the shores of the south atlantic in latin america. gurgel do amaral. deputy from the state of guanabara. first secretary of the chamber of deputies. or. to use the language of brazil. camera dos deputados. deputy luiz bronzeado. deputy hildebrando de araujo goes. and senator mourao vieira. each of these gentleman has a most distinguished record in his country. for example. deputy da cufiha is the former mayor of the federal district when the federal district was in rio de janeiro. the other gentlemen in the party have equally distinguished reputations. also. it is an opportunity for us to pay our respects to brazil. the most populous country in south america. a country having emous resources. and which has just shown its brilliant achievement in the development of brasilia. the new capital. where the chamber of deputies and the senate are  meeting. as an earnest of the great friendship. the traditional friendship. which we want to have grow and prosper. between our countries. these gentlemen are here to cement personally the bonds which will arise from the travel of citizens of the united states to brazil. their presence emphasizes what congress has just done in terms of the enactment of a law to develop our interest in international travel. which brazil is  quite prepared to join us in making a success. i  present the members of congress from brazil. and i hope that senators will meet with them personally.
