. i support the hatfield amendment which calls for distributing excess domestic commodities to the hungry. i commend the senator from oregon for this attempt to solve the problems dealing both with surplus commodities and hunger in america. price support programs have resulted in billions of pounds of surplus dairy products and millions of bushels of grain spilling out of government warehouses. onetenth of the nations entire dairy production is currently being bought and stored by the federal governmentan amount equal to 75 pounds of stored dairy products for every person in the country at a cost to the u.s. taxpayer of more than $2 billion a year. meanwhile. millions of americans are lining up for food stamps and at soup kitchens. with mountains of stored commodities. our choice is either to continue to pay for storage. with the attendant risk of spoilage that entails. or to give the products to food banks. churches. other groups. or the school lunch program to help people in dire need of food assistance. senator hatfields amendment will provide administrative funding to pay for the distribution of these commodities. part of the administrative costs will be defrayed by transferring funds that  are used to pay storage. over 1 billion dollars worth of commoditiesdairy products. wheat. corn. and ricewill be distributed under this amendment. clearly these provisions will go a long way in insuring that the great wealth and bounty of this nation is distributed among the millions who go hungry each day.e
. i support the hatfield amendment which calls for distributing excess domestic commodities to the hungry. i commend the senator from oregon for this attempt to solve the problems dealing both with surplus commodities and hunger in america. price support programs have resulted in billions of pounds of surplus dairy products and millions of bushels of grain spilling out of government warehouses. onetenth of the nations entire dairy production is currently being bought and stored by the federal governmentan amount equal to 75 pounds of stored dairy products for every person in the country at a cost to the u.s. taxpayer of more than $2 billion a year. meanwhile. millions of americans are lining up for food stamps and at soup kitchens. with mountains of stored commodities. our choice is either to continue to pay for storage. with the attendant risk of spoilage that entails. or to give the products to food banks. churches. other groups. or the school lunch program to help people in dire need of food assistance. senator hatfields amendment will provide administrative funding to pay for the distribution of these commodities. part of the administrative costs will be defrayed by transferring funds that  are used to pay storage. over 1 billion dollars worth of commoditiesdairy products. wheat. corn. and ricewill be distributed under this amendment. clearly these provisions will go a long way in insuring that the great wealth and bounty of this nation is distributed among the millions who go hungry each day.e
. from the beginning. the two major problems of title i of the elementary and secondary 5 education act have been the lack of sufficient funds to aid all our educationally disadvantaged children and the lac e of a formula to distribute available funds equitably. the provisions of the bill before us. s. 1539. that are designed to meet these problems are the very provisions that would be changed by the mcclellan amendment. for example. s. 1539 provides that school district would receive less title i funds at any time in the future than it did in fiscal year 1974. this is designed to give school districts assurance of minimum amounts they can expect so they can plan ahead their ongoing programs. in the first annual report on title i in 1966. one of the major problems cited was the lack of any assured level of funding. the report said: local school districts also said that they were more hesitant to plan programs and hire additional personnel without assurances that a specific level of funding would be maintained over several years. this has been a continuing problem. local school officials still point out that a title i program can be a hitormiss. 1 year cram course. it has to be a longterm process that provides the additional educational services disadvantaged children need on a sustained basis. the base year concept contained in the bill is a significant step toward solving this problem. it gives an administrator assurance that he will receive funding at least equal to his present allocation and that he can plan a program accordingly. the mcclellan amendment would eliminate the base year concept and substitute for it a provision that would assure each school district only 85 percent of the amount it received the previous year. this would mean that a school district. by losing 15 percent of its previous years allotment in each of 4 successive years. could wind up with only 49 percent of the funds it had started with. obviously. that would  permit longrange planning of an ongoing program. in my view. the base year concept is needed to provide for effective use of the funds the congress provides for title i programs. but the base year concept would  assure equitable distribution of funds under title i. unfortunately. we do  have sufficient information about educationally disadvantaged children to assure that title i funds will be distributed to those most in need in every case. ms. mollie orshansky of the social security administration developed a poverty index based on food costs to a family of a particular size. taking into account the age and sex of the head of the household and whether it is a farm or farm family. but ms. orshansky has counseled congress against using the index as the sole indicator of poverty. as she pointed out. the orshansky formula concentrates only on "the incomefood relationship. although in urban families. particularly those handicapped  only by lack of . money but by miity status and large families. the cost of housing may be critical." * the orshansky formula is further limited by the fact that it can only be applied against static census population figures and. therefore. is  reflective
madam president. here in the united states is the struggle over civil rights taking a greater toll than in prince edward county. va.. where about 1.100 negro children of school age have had formal schooling since 1959. many of these children. who come from poor farm families. did  k how to hold a pencil recently when a federally sponsored research team tried to determine their intelligence and educational status. the only formal instruction these children have been exposed to is crash summer and holiday volunteer programs. i am proud that the volunteer teachers this year include 17 students from queens college. new york. and 19 new york city professional schoolteachers. the students raised money for the project by sponsoring baseball games and concerts at their college. i feel that this is the type of tedious. unglamorous work which proves that the teachers of this nation. despite their detractors. have  lost their great humanitarian spirit and concern for the individual student. especially students who need special attention. an article in this mornings edition of the washington post. i think. illustrates the personal. human tragedy that can be caused by prejudice. and the personal. human efforts that are being made by some individuals in an attempt to surmount it. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
in that case. let that majority put up the money to give school lunches to the segregated children. the united states should  do it. if the people feel that way. let them put up the money until the law catches up with them and compels them to desegregateand it will ultimately. let them put up the money to feed the children. the united states should  use the money of all the taxpayers of new york. pennsylvania. michigan. maryland. and other states to feed children under the school lunch program under those conditions. i am sure that the likely prospect is that the state would  discontinue the program and require the children to pay for their own lunches. as they did in the past. but that the state would prefer to continue to receive federal assistance.
the question. however. is whether we will go for the form or the substance. i do  believe a senator must vote for a given measure whenever it is up. whether timely or  timely. because he does  want the public record to show he voted "nay" on a given occasion. that is why we are here. because we are supposed to have egh character to do that. when we think that is the right course. that is what i had to do in committee. it went deeply against the grain to do so. i am extremely unhappy about it. but many more senators have stood in this chamber long before me and have been just as unhappy but have done their duty by the nation. that is how i feel about this situation. i can criticize anyone who wishes to press it. i can only say what the situation is. we will  give relief to 150.000 to 200.000 or more college students who need these loans unless we act . and act free of extraneous issues. it is as simple as that. if we do  do it. the whole thing can well go down the drain. i do  say that it will  do any good for our young people. because it will do some good. but it will  do any good if we are  going to do anything about it . when the young people of this country need the loans. in view of the financial interest situation. because of the high interest rates. when they have to be given their opportunity to get into universities and colleges of their choice. that is the issue. it will be raised by appropriate amendments. i am sure-
