. upon the request of the town meeting members of reading. mass.. i include a copy of the resolution adopted by that body on october 16. 1967. in opposition to the medicaid program. title xix of the social security act. as it is being implemented in the state of massachusetts. inasmuch as the administration of the program is on the state level. falling within the standards set by title xix. i have asked the massachusetts department of public welfare to supply me with a complete report on the program as it operates in massachusetts. the resolution follows:
 of the vermont house of representatives. and as a distinguished member of both the house and senate. he devoted himself totally to the work of public service. he fought diligently and tirelessly for greater educational opportunities. for the elderly. the workingman. the handicapped. and the poor. one better understood the human needs of this country. and his efforts to better the health and welfare of all americans will be felt and appreciated for many years to come. his loss is profound. and i extend to his wife and loved ones my most heartfelt condolences.
let me merely indicate in the first instance that only the united states employment service itself ever was in the department of labor. unemployment insurance itself never was a part of the department of labor. i think that will clear up the point the senator has in mind. but i call attention to the message of the president of the united states. dated april 25. 1939. at which time he placed the proposal before the congress regarding the question of the federal security agency. the matter of social security generally. and. as i tried to indicate in my prepared remarks. the need for having all these agencies in one agency of the government. he said: i find it necessary and desirable to group in a federal security agency those agencies of the government. the major purposes of which are to promote social and ecoic security. educational opportunity and the health of the citizens of the nation. the agencies to be grouped are the social security board.  an independent establishment. the united states employment service.  in the department of labor. the office of education.  in the department of the interior. the public health service.  in the treasury department. the national youth administration.  in the works progress administration. and the civilian conservation corps.  an independent agency. he then goes on with further reasons. which i shall  take the time of the senate to read. what i have read indicates the purpose of an integrated setup. and. as i indicated in my preliminary remarks. there is certainly just as strong a reason for having the unemployment insurance service in the social security agency as there is for having the employment service itself in the department of labor. senators may take their choice. if it is desired to get down to brass tacks in argument. the question can be argued one way just as completely as the other.
mk.. president. i am pleased. today to. jbin my colleagues in. introducing a bill to reauthorize title. x of the public. health service act. title x is the mainstay of the natlon.s efforts to expand access. to family planning. services among lowincome women and teenagers. thus minimizing. the incidence of unintended pregnan cies and the need for abortion.. five million women receive care and. services under this. act. for some of these women.. health care funded by title x represents their only source of medical attention of any kind. for all of these women. title x. represents. a solid commitment to the future of this. nations. family planning. program. . last. year this country spent $17.9 billion on. programs to deali with the consequences of teenage. pregnancy. and this is only part of the tremendous price our country pays when our young. people are burdened with unwanted pregnancies resulting. in poverty. and welfare dependence. we k through experience. that. countries with. the most accessible contraceptive services for teenagers have. the lowest rate. of teenage pregnancy. it is  surprising that one report. has. shown that the services of title x have prevented. 800.000. unintended. pregnancies. about 425.000. of them among teenagers.  efforts to. reduce. the problems of poverty in the future. are likely- to succeed unless we do something to address the adolescent pregnancy rate. over 1 million teenagers. become pregnant each year. one study has projected that 4 out of every 10 girls will become pregnant before. they are 20. adolescent pregnancy and parenthood are clearly connected to poverty and longterm welfare dependency.. teenage mothers face a greater risk of medical complications. during pregnancy. they are more likely to drop out of school. they often. must raise their children alone. and are less likely to be selfsufficient. those who have children during their teens are increasingly likely to have large families which are. difficult to support. this leads. to. chronic welfare dependency by teenage parents and women who were teenage parents. it. has been estimated that more than 60 percent of. afdc recipients under the age of 30 are teenage. parents. teenage parents pay. a heavy price in a lifetime of lost. opportunities and this is deeply troubling. for those of us who want our young people to. have the best chance for fulfillment. the measure. that. i. join in ihtroducing today does more than simply reauthorize this crucial program for 4 more years.. indeed it goes. beyond that. adding modest increases in. funding levels and: providing for general: improvements in the training of clinic personnel. the measure also continues the biomedical research authority and s 8160 coi adds a separate $10 million authoriza. tion for a new initiative with the na. tional institute of child health and human development [nichdi to promote the development. marketing and evaluation of new contraceptive devices. drugs and methods. finally. an additional $10 million authorization will broaden communitybased information and education programs to assist individuals in discussing and making responsible choices concerning sexual activity. pregnancy and parenthood. the performance of abortions with title x funds is. and has always been. prohibited by the authorizing statute. the title x program helpsreduce the number of abortions.. by reducingthe number of unintended pregnancies. this is a measure we should all be able to support. family planning is a basic health and social service that is needed and wanted by millions of american women and their families. even with the significant achievements of the national family planning program. there are glaring reminders that much more needs to be done. more than half of the 6 million pregnancies that occur each year are unintended. it is clear that our commitment to this program must continue. e by mr. chiles (for himself and i mr. graham):
. today the senate has come one step closer to restoring public confidence in congress. passage of what has come to be called the gift ban bill will help to strengthen the credibility congress has lost as a result of such matters as the improprieties that led to the closing of the house bank and the revelations about dubious fundraising activities that resulted from the keating five investigations. i do  believe that the votes of most members of congress are influenced by the meals and tokens that this bill seeks to eliminate. what i do believe is that a public perception exists that congress places itself above other americans. the perception also exists that some members of congress are unduly influenced by special interest lobbyists. rather than by those they represent. this erosion of the public trust threatens to undermine the effectiveness of the legislative branch. * as we endeavor to make unprecedented changes in our nations health care policy that will affect virtually every american. as we work to rejuvenate our nations troubled schools. and as we take steps to reform the welfare system to best assist our nations poorest citizens. we must have the trust. confidence. and assistance of the american people. if restoring the gift rules will help to restore the public trust. then i am all for it.
. it is with great pleasure that i rise today to pay tribute to the rough and ready engine co..  5 of warren. ri on the occasion of its 50th annual clambake. which will occur on august 6. 1995. declared "rough and ready clambake day" by the warren town council. this day commemorates both the professional and charitable work of the roughs. as they have been fondly nicknamed by the town. part of the fire companys charter "* * * to assist in the extinguishing of fires. tlhe protection of life and property and to enhance the general welfare of the community * * *" is also .the roughs motto. the rough and ready clambake commemorates 50 years of charitable work with the state of rhode island. in 1994 and 1995. over 10 organizations and charitable institutions within the community have benefited from donations totaling over $3.000. the roughs have sponsored a little league baseball team and a youth soccer team. three residents of warren were given the opportunity to attend camp stonetower. a camp for children with mental disabilities. during the christmas season. the roughs annually prepare dinner baskets for distribution through local churches to those in need within the community. i ask my colleagues in the senate to join with me and all rhode islanders in commending the members of the rough and ready engine co..  5 for their many acts of generosity and good will within their community. and in wishing them continued health and prosperity.0
ial veto. however. i want to commend our distinguished chairman. bill roth. for accommodating a number of the improvements i recommended with respect to the medicaid and welfare sections of the legislations. on medicaid. the initfal version of s. 1795 would have allowed states to cut off children 13 or oldera significant departure from current law. under current law states must cover children at or below 100 percent of poverty through the age of twelve. with an additional years coverage added each year until such children reach the age of 19. at my urging the chairman agreed to maintain current law in this area. i was also pleased the chairman retained current law coverage of benefits for children under the early periodic screening. diagis. and treatment requirements. this will assure that severely disabled children continue to get medically necessary treatment. aher concern of mine which the chairman addressed was the lack of health and quality standards for individuals with developmental disabilities who reside in intermediate care facilities for the mentally retarded [icfs/  roth was receptive to addressing a number of my concerns in the revised version of s. 1795 he brought before the committee. i am very hopeful that these improvements will be retained. and that additional improvements can be made on the senate floor and in conference.*
i will just take a couple of minutes. . i would like. on my time. to ask the chairman of the finance committee if i am correct in believing that you could end up with a situation where you have two similar individuals. let us say women on welfare currently. let us just look ahead a year from . under this proposal. you could find one individual currently receiving medicaid coverage and aher individual in exactly the same positionexactly. children the same age. earned income exactly the same. welfare benefits exactly the same. one would be entitled to medicaid coverage and one would  be. because that second woman is  on the rolls currently. am i correct in that. i ask the distinguished chairman of the finance committee.
in response to the distinguished senator from arizona. he is absolutely correct when he says we did  want the federal government to finance it. that was a reason. he is correct on that point. but. in addition to that point were all the reasons relative to se levels and the environment that are just as valid in the argument today as they were in the argument back in . the health and welfare of our citizens.  possible diplomatic gains. must determine our action on this matter. by their own admission. manufacturers of the concorde sst ackledge that the plane is twice as loud as current regulations allow for subsonic planes. i can support the adoption of a double standard by allowing sst to land at airports that would be closed to equally sy but less influential aircraft. that is the issue pure and simple. i fully respect the views of the senator from arizona. as a matter of fact. in most aeronautic matters. i look to the distinguished senator from arizona as my leader. there is probably ody in the senate who ks as much as he does about these matters. whether we are referring to commercial or military aircraft. but this is a matter of principle. really going back on the intent of congress. he and i disagree on that point. he feels that the intent was expressed solely on the matter of federal assistance. i do  think so. it was clear even then that we had taken into consideration the environmental impact of this type of airplane and had rejected it. . as i understand. the state department is most anxious that the senate go ahead and defeat this amendment in order that we can have good relations at least in this area. with our neighbors in england and france. well. i am sorry about that. i am sure the state department should pursue its ends. which are to create and maintain friendly relations. we have the job of protecting and representing the interests of our constituents. if we are going to apply a standard to the american plane manufacturers that takes into consideration health and welfare of our citizenry. those same standards should apply to foreign manufacturers. that. in essence. is what is accomplished by the amendment of the distinguished senator from indiana. i compliment him. i do  think it is a backdoor approach. i wish more often my colleagues would step up to bat on these issues as they arise in the form of appropriations. that is the only power we have. it is the power of the purse. if we want to effect the policy. do it when the purse is up for debate and for vote. again i want to put it in the rscord that i compliment the distinguished senator from indiana.  for utilizing any backdoor approach but meeting the issue headon. i am thoroughly in support of his amendment for the reasons enunciated.  i will be delighted to dialog with my colleague. the distinguished senator from utah.
. it may be th~at an interim delay in sanctions is indicated until this legislation can be considered. but only congrcss can authorize such adelay. the resolution iam introducing today would make it cletr that the epa should  attempt to usurp congressional authority in this matter. then it will be our respgnsibllity.to act and act swiftly on other proposed legislation if we truly seek to protect the health and welfare of our citizens..
. when the senate loses george murphy it will lose a man of deep convictions and rare wit and good humor. i can recall many instances when george murphy has come to this chamber early and left late. spending long hours in debate for the causes in which he believes. we have served together on the armed services committee. where he has been a faithful and effective participant in our deliberations. and throughout his career. he has been a thoughtful and progressive proponent of quality education and health care for all americans. i am proud to salute a man who has led a varied and active life. and made a substantial contribution to the welfare of this country. as he enters yet aher stage in his long career. i wish him well.
. on may 4. addressing the senate on the subject "national senior citizens montha time for action." i predicted a protracted debate over alternative welfare reform proposals and suggested that we defer consideration of such reform and proceed at once with consideration of an acrosstheboard social security benefit increase. since my speech i have been pleased to e that other senators have agreed to move expeditiously to provide older americans the increased security they have patiently and anxiously awaited. i find too an increasing concurrence that welfare reform proposals should stand or fall on their own merits and  cling to the coattails of social security. for too long our elderly citizens have been held hostage to welfare reform. it is time they were freed. it has been a year and a day since the house passed h.r. 1 with its provision for a 5 percent acrosstheboard social security benefits increase. while the rate of this increase is inadequate. the delays in the senate have become intolerable. today we have the opportunity to respond to the most compelling plight of our senior citizensinadequate cash incomes. i earnestly urge senators to support the amendment offered by the senator from idaho . myself. and other senators to provide a 20 percent acrosstheboard social security benefits increase. our older americans deserve our prompt attention where their need is greatest. but we can provide this increase and rest contented that we have done egh in this congress for our 20 million older americans. on the contrary. our agenda for action on behalf of the elderly is full and demanding. and upon our. return from the pending recess. we must consider promptly and fully the need for: expansion of medicare coverage and the reduction of medicare premiums. deductibles and coinsurance. revision of the adult categories of assistance. increasing the retirement test and providing relief from the burdens of property taxes and rents. the breadth of this agenda underscores the years in which our nation failed to provide a fair share of the abundance with those who produced it through years of toil. our older americans have served the nation better than the nation has served them. they rightly demand and deserve that we do better by them. today we have the opportunity to signal the beginning of a new era in which the nation will move to provide its elderly the dignity and security they deserve. i urge that we make this signal loud and clear by adopting the 20 percent acrosstheboard social security benefits increase by the widest possible margin.
i appreciate the comment of the senator from tennessee. i have very strong feeling on this subject. i think. however. we ought to do that . and  "mess up" the operation of the public assistance programs nationallly. in many states. particularly in new jersey. it is going to get us off on the wrong track. and delay. rather than expedite. putting into effect this health program for our older people on an insurance basis across the board.
i join the senator from minnesota in expressing appreciation and satisfaction at dr. larsons speech to that group. and also his confirmation of a position which i myself have long held in regard to the question of medical care for the aged. and provision for it under the social security system. which i think is entirely sound. i also express the hope that following the suggestions made by the administration spokesmeni believe the secretary of health. education. and welfare recently was one of those. and there have been others recentlya serious effort will be made within the basic principles of the social security system to enact appropriate legislation at this session of congress. to that end i ask unanimous consent to include in the record at this point an editorial which appeared yesterday in the new york times.
. the supplemental appropriations bill includes a number of important additions to the original supplemental requests for health manpower. both the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on laborhealth. education. and welfare appropriations
. the attorney general of new jersey. william f. hyland. recently wrote to me about a problem that has long been of concern to me and i am sure is of concern to my colleagues in the senate. because i believe his letter states very clearly the concern i have had over the years about federal preemption of a states right to establish standards to protect the health and welfare of its residents when those standards exceed the minimum federal standards. i would like to make his letter. and my reply to it. available to all members of the senate. i. therefore. ask unanimous consent that his letter and my reply to it be printed in the record.
subsequently said:  of the united states and his secretary of health. education. and welfare have egh understanding of the processes of our government to come forward with a medical aid plan for our older citizens. i point out that the logical outcome of an attitude which holds that such assistance turns us into a socialist state or a welfare state. and that therefore we should engage in e of these programs. is a sharply divided country. a division between the radical right and the radical left. this is completely antithetical to the interests of the united states. i thank god that both american political parties pursue a middleoftheroad course in providing such assistance. a course completely consistent with our constitutional and democratic institutions. and i am confident that the majority of my party feels that way. i do  completely agree with the plan proposed by secretary flemming. eight senators on this side of the aisle have proposed a plan for medical care for the aged. however. i believe there is common cause between those who believe that the federal government must do something in this field and those who do . i hope very much that the secretary of health. education. and welfare will  be the least bit discouraged. he is certainly on the right track in seeking a constructive solution of this problem. many of us believe that the involuntary solutionthe social security solutionis  so good as the voluntary solution through a federalstate government plan. this is the solution the administration has espoused in principle. i am confident that we can work out the details. the important thing is to keep our eye on the fact that there is a grave national need for such a program. as lincoln said. where there is a grave national need which the people can themselves meet. then government must help them to meet it. i am delighted that in this endeavor the administration is dedicated to the highest traditions of my party. in the spirit of lincoln.
. i think it is essential that the record be made clear upon this measure. it was approved in my absence yesterday. but quite in good faith on the part of those who may probably have believed that i had agreed to it. although i actually had  agreed to it. the bill proposes to amend the food. drug. and cosmetic act by providing that color additives and various types of food. drugs. and cosmetics should be subject to the same tests as other substances which are covered by aher law. the main problem which is raised in respect to all this legislation occurs in paragraph b of section 706 of the law. which deals with substances which may induce cancer in man or animal. this is a very serious matter. of course. and it properly commends itself to our grave concern. by means of this measure the secretary of health. education. and welfare is  only given broad authority. but is given mandatory direction. to see that any color additive which. upon tests of man or animals. is found to have this effect. or if it is found that it could possibly have this effect. is barred from use. those who manufacture pharmaceuticals and have very substantial employment and very substantial plants in the state of new york. take very serious exception to feasibility of this kind of very strict and mandatory standard. from the point of view of whether it can be carried out without so greatly inhibiting mal and perfectly safe practices in the pharmaceutical industry as to very seriously hurt their businesses. in that connection. we have a very important piece of evidence. because this subject has been examined at the white house level. and in that connection i read  from a statement issued on may 14 from the white house:
i can answer that question. according to the figures of the department of health. education. and welfare 15 percent of the persons who are over 65. or 2.250.000. have total medical expenditures on the average of $700 per year.  including nursing home care. and that is quite regardless of income. it is 15 percent of the totality of those over 65.
in the first place. let me say i need  protest my respect and my personal affection for the senator from michigan. because he is well aware of them. also. i have been designated by the republican side to be a member of the subcommittee on aging. i am much pleased. king the strong feelings the senator has on medical care. that he has taken a waitandsee attitude on the option contained in the anderson bill. it is with that in mind. and  in a contentious spirit. that i would like to call a few matters to the senators attention. i think. as the senator views the option concept. it is very important to e that it does  apply only to insurance companies. i think it is important to emphasize that fact for the country. there are many cooperatives. many group practice organizations. and indeed pension and welfare fundsperhaps the most prominent is the kaiser planwhich could fit into this concept which is called the option in the amendment. there is aher point i should like to suggest for a further study by the senator. it is true that we wish to provide benefits for the aged. that is the fundamental point. it is also true. however. it is almost impossible for anybody to protect people against themselves. the people of whom we are speaking are fairly intelligent. older people. it has always been contemplated. as i have understood the bill. that there would be some kind of supplementary coverage. indeed. the supplementary coverage which is called for by the bill itself is evidenced by the fact that the estimates generally proceed on the assumption that about onethirdup to  to exceed 40 percentof the medical costs would be covered by the kinganderson package. that is generally assumed to be the case. and i think the senator himself has been a party to those estimates. if there are to be supplementary benefits. and if the secretary of health. education. and welfare is to keep a rather tight rein on this whole situation. as i am confident he will. then under my amendmenteven the one of which the senator was rather critical. to which i will come in a minutewould it  be a fact that if we provided supplemental coverage. to be built efficiently upon the basic governmental coverage as contained in the bill. there would be a good chance to give to the person who seeks supplementary coverage more for his money. that was really the essence of the feeling of the senator from new mexico . i believe. i say "a chance." i am  trying to debate the senator . in view of the senators feeling that he would like to look into it further. with an open mind. rather. i suggest areas of investigation. because the committee has a splendid staff which i think could be very helpful in looking into the implications of what we seek to do in regard to the totality of the anderson proposal.
madam president. this is a judicialreview amendment. the purpose is to bring about a review in the courts of the united states of any determination made by the secretary which relates to withholding money from any state under the four benefit sections or provisions of the bill. as to its public welfare phases. the state of new york. which my colleague [. judicial review is also the rule in connection with a number of other programs: in which the federal government aids the states. for example. in aid to the states for hospital construction. under the hillburton act. there is judicial review if the surgeon general refuses to approve a state application and if the state feels that refusal is contrary to the law. the same is true in connection with the matching grants for library services. and judicial review is also provided for in connection with agreements concluded by the secretary of labor under the socalled distressedarea program which we passed  very long ago. and such review is also provided for in the case of certain phases of unemployment compensation under the relationships between the united states and the states. and such review is also provided for in connection with vocational education and vocational rehabilitation. where there is sharing of the programs with the states. and such review is also provided for in connection with water pollution control. it seems to me we should be encouraging the states to take more responsibility. and that we should give. within the confines of the law. an opportunity for the expression of the states initiative in connection with the development of its own plan. to entitle it to aid under the federal plans provided by this bill. and that. we should  give the secretary of health. education. and welfare this absolute. arbitrary power. i have discussed this amendment with the distinguished floor manager of the bill. who i think certainly would be sympathetic toward the idea of  vesting such untrammeled. autocratic power in any government official. and i understand the feeling of the senator from oklahoma. namely. that he desires to have the bill go to the other body with the minimum possible number of amendments. or. if possible. without any amendment. or. at least. certainly without an amendment which might engender controversy. i appreciate that feeling onhis part. buti should like to ask him to realize that this suggestion is  a pet idea of mine. but is really a deeply felt and widely entertained view.  only in new york. speaking through its commissioner of welfare. but also among a body of people who have a deep feeling on this subject and who work with it all the time. and this feeling is shared by other states. as shown by the position taken at the conferences of welfare officials. so i shall appreciate it very much if something can be placed in the recorn at this stage to indicate how we think such a situation could be resolved. when a state honestly feels that it lacks freedom of initiative and action within the confines of the law and believes it is  absolutely restricted to whatever the secretary of health. education. and welfare may determine he wants the state to do in connection with any changes in its plan. so i shall deeply appreciate it if the distinguished floor manager of the bill will express his position on this subject.
subsequently said: . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoad a resolution adopted by the common council of the city of buffalo. n.y.. inviting the department of health. education. and welfare to locate its planned environmental health center in the area of the niagara frontier.
. the difficulty with that situation is that hearings have been held on the senate bill. the senate bill has been reported from the subcommittee to the full committee. it could be reported from the full committee. it could indeed be made a substitute. we are concerned that in the last days of the session we will have aher welfare bill. aher trade bill. aher medicare bill on the calendar. this is a very critically important and very complex subject. if we add this matter we might as well forget about any action in this session. i. therefore. suggest this further possibility as an alternative. personally. i think that the senator from pennsylvania has chosen the right way to raise this issue to try to reach some constructive solution to the problem in the next few days by putting this bill on the calendar. we have our bill in the committee. then we can confer in the hope of getting somewhere. the senators suggestion is a proper one. that could be done. the committee could report the whole bill or part of it and that bill could be offered as a substitute. the other suggestion is the possibility of reporting the measure with a short limitation. as little as 24 hours. that i believe is also possible under the rule.
i thank the senator for what he has said. this is a part of a quality program. as these programs certainly have proved to be. two of the most effective things that we have found. in the struggle against poverty in a legislative way. have been the importance to the poor of health and legal services. these are the two big things which one had realized were so profoundly and so deeply needed: dignity and the preservation of health. also. as we strive to bring into the work force the welfare client and the poor. we realize how listless one can be without any motivation.  because one may  wish to or may  be well disposed. but strictly because one is physically unable. for many reasons associated with poverty. to do what is necessary to get started to do a days work. i am very glad that the senators have agreed to accept this amendment. one peripheral point: it will be realized that we are inclined also to use community health centers in the struggle against narcotics and drug abuse. i k the senator from washington intends to take the amendment to conference. i am really trying to fortify the amendment with the critical points which commend an increase. these centers. especially as we come to new methods of treatment. acquire a new character. and unless they are funded and staffed with competent personnel. kn and respected in the community. the narcotics addict will  trust them.
. reserving the right to objectand i shall  objectsenator nelson is  on the floor. senator nelson was very deeply troubled about the fact that we put the conference report on the poverty bill after the drug abuse bill. i happen to be a factor in both. and i speak only out of a sense of responsibility. does  the senator feel that he had better talk to senator nelson first.
. as we consider such issues as psychosurgery. organ transplants. genetic manipulations. sterilization procedures for criminal behavior. brainwashing. mind control and mind expanding techniques. and. yes. even the very concept of birth and death itself. the urgent need to adequately protect the rights and welfare of human subjects in all federally funded research activities becomes imperative. in view of my own deep personal concern about this subject. i have sponsoredwith the chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. senator williams. the ranking miity member of the health subcommittee. senator schwenkzr. and the chairman of the health subcommittee. senator kennedya special congressional briefing session on february 27 about the advances in biomedical science and their important consequences for the future of mankind generally. and for our country in particular. these new developments have profound ethical and legislative implications. and so require understanding on our part as legislators if they are to be used for maximum benefit to our people.
. on behalf of the administration. i introduce a bill to amend the public health service act and ask unanimous consent that the bill and a letter from the secretary of health. education. and welfare be printed at this point in the record.
. this argument we just heard reminds me of the blind man feeling the elephant and making a description. in short. it is approached by the opponents on the theory that we are giving a bonus for work. but afdc mothers do  even begin to work. we are approaching it from the point of view that the syndrome of poverty in which they have been trapped can be broken if we give them an inducement to begin to work. that is what this amendment is all about. an inducement to begin to work so they k they have a job. they get some work habits. they get some feeling of the joy of independence. of jingling a few bucks in their pockets that they themselves have earned. that is the whole purpose. there is claim that it costs any money. it seems to me to be an extremely desirable social purpose.
