. at a time when there are pressing domestic needs. it is all too easy to go for the short term and question large federal expenditures for space. nevertheless. even a cursory look at results from the space program would argue against such a course. this program. albeit directed toward the starts communications. nutrition. weather forecasting. pollution monitoring. and other facets of those very domestic needs that concern us all. in particular. nasas continuing investigation into alternative energy systems for its space missions has direct relevance at a time when america is anguishing over a threatened shortage of conventional energy production. the space program and longrange answers to the "energy crisis" go handinhand. * if the congress. or the nation. think of nasas job as completed with the landing of a man on the moon. we are iging the vast potential of the space program to improve our human environment. nasa unquestionably has developed the capabilities to reach "for the stars." to continue to carry out large scale techogy programs with its inhouse capabilities. research facilities. expertise. and management experience. to cut back drastically . to dismiss this competency and experience as irrelevant to the problems of the nation. this indeed would be to sell the space program and america short. therefore. let us  fail to plant the seeds for techogy development programs.that may be futuristic. but hold the key to a quality of life for generations yet unborn. the achievements engineered by nasa were  isolated successes. without application to their earth and our lives. in a january 1973 speech before the american institute of aeronautics and astronautics. i stated that the real benefits from the space program emerged as "offshoots" of our effort to land a man on the moon. as i concluded then. i believe these benefits can come only from reaching for the stars. and certainly  from grubbing around in the ledgerbooks. clearly the emphasis of the space program has shifted from an outer space exploration orientation toward programs of specific earth applications. nasas years of experience in the near bounds of earths space can  be utilized to the fullest extent possible for solving earthbased problems. such as environmental protection. food production and planning. and energy resource development. one of the most promising of these areasenergy resource developmentinvolves harnessing mans true source of life. the sun. to quote from a frontpage article on solar energy in the wall street journal of april 16. 1973: the attraction of harnessing an inexhaustible power supply becomes apparent when its realized that over the next 30 years the united states is expected to consume more energy than it has since the arrival of the mayflower. yet many of its present energy sources are either. like natural gas. in short supply or. like coal. a major cause of pollution. even nuclear power longer has the assured growth that was once predicted. solar energy proponents. on the other hand. say that power from the sun is  only environmentally safe but also will be shown to be ecoically competitive with other power sources. the senate aeronautical and space sciences committee has realized that although the greater part of federal funds for solar energy research has gone to national science foundation. nasa has been an equally important pioneer in the development and application of solar energy systems. such as the power supply for much of the skylab mission  orbiting the earth. in light of the present energy crisis. the committee has stated in its report on the nasa authorization bill for fiscal year 1974. that: it is convinced that all potential sources of energy should be fully and expeditiously explored and that nasa has broad capabilities that can and should be studied fully for their potential application to solving the energy shortage facing the nations. it is a question of utilizing fully all our resources in the face of crisis. to this end. the committee has increased the space applications budget for nasa by $2 million. for purposes of formulating a longterm energy program. this program is to incorporate development of all the many techogies and power systems that the space agency has utilized or investigated. i applaud the committees farsighted action in this regard. it represents wellfounded recognition of nasas particular accomplishments in advanced energy components for space missions. i am hopeful that these techogies will be used to harness solar energy. since nasa already has a demonstrated expertise in such areas as photovoltaics. solar energy collection. thermodynamics and heat transfer. power conversion. and energy absorbing coatings. we can see how private industry has taken advantage of nasas contributions in solar energy research. as the following article from business week magazine of may 19. 1973. illustrates:
