. on may 13 and 14. i was privileged to attend meetings of the world health conference and of the intergovernmental committee for european migration in geneva. these are but 2 of the 71 international organizations and programs to many associated with the united nationsto which the united states contributes. our contributions are considerable and. i must add. considerably selfless. the combined budgets of all these organizations and programs are over $550 million. and including the voluntary contributions by our government. the united states accounts for about 45 percent of the total. despite the size of our effort in these areas. the united states has only one vote in each of these agencies. we have  and do  intend to institute any weighted vote procedures. to the extent that these organizations and programs are technical and humanitarian. we do all in our power to resist the interjection of political issues. our concern and our contributions are testimony to the fact that we as a nation have accepted the global social. ecoic. and humanitarian obligations and responsibilities of our great productivity and power. two responsibilities arise from the fact that we contribute much and yet have only one vote. on our part. we have a real responsibility to make up in staff work and proposals what we lack in votes. on the part of other nations. they have the responsibility to understand that the american people have a right to expect successful. efficient. and ecoical operation. fairness and justice. and the honest evaluation of programs and policies which are proposed. this demands the highest interest and conscience of the individual member to avoid partisan voting in fixed ideological blocs. the who is a specialized agency of the united nations. its purpose is "the attainment by all peoples of the highest possible level of health." and to this end. the agency provides training and technical advice. the u.s. assessment is approximately 31 percent of the total who budget. the next largest contributor is the soviet union. which pays about 13 percent of the total. france. the united kingdom. and the federal republic of germany combined provide together about 17 percent of the total. the u.s. effort in the world health field. it must be added. does  end with who. we provide about $100 million in direct bilateral health aid. the organization does good work. and i am in favor of it. we must be careful. however. that it does  become embroiled in political debates and therefore become disruptive. for example. india has submitted a resolution calling for a nuclear moratorium in the world health organization. a number of other states have urged a debate on south vietnam. and so on. our delegation should be supported in resisting what are  improper debates in an international organization such as this. but which would be harmful to the who. under the leadership of dr. m. g. candau. of brazil. who is doing very significant work in a wide variety of health problems all over the world. in some cases. however. political issues have been raised in the organization. there have been proposals to withdraw membership from the union of south africa and portugal. india has offered a resolution for a nuclear moratorium. and a number of states have urged a debate on vietnam. the icem is an independent international organization established with the purpose "to facilitate and increase the movement of indiges migrants and refugees out of europe and simultaneously to meet the requirements for manpower of the developing ecoics of immigration countries." its present director is mr. bastian w. haveman of the netherlands. the united states contributes approximately 30 percent of the icem budget. australia. the next largest contributor and the biggest beneficiary of the program. pays approximately 17 percent. the primary function of icem is the transportation of refugees and migrants. in this role it does  conflict. but rather complements the role of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. who is responsible for the political and social protection of the refugees and migrants. the present and very successful u.n. high commissioner is prince sadruddin aga khan. since its inception in 1952. icem has moved about one and a half million persons overseas. of whom 639.539 were refugees mostly from eastern europe. many of these persons possessed skills that are highly valued and needed in the underdeveloped areas. and they were able to make -significant contributions to ecoic growth. there has been a problem in this regard in recent years. however. because of the gap between the workers situation in europe and in the underdeveloped areas. less people are willing to leave europe today for new countries marked by political instability. poorer wage levels. and few social and retirement benefits. this gap will make it increasingly difficult for the underdeveloped nations to maintain the immigration of refugees. there is one matter to which i wish to alert the senate. in the last few years. icem has increasingly been turning its attention away from overseas migration and to europe itself. more and more of its funds are being used to help transport european workers. particularly from greece and turkey. to other european countries. to the extent that icem becomes european oriented. the united states should proportionately decrease its share of the budget. there is reason why the people of the united states should pay to help france and west germany. who are able to handle their own migration of workers. to obtain a cheaper supply of labor. there is. however. support for worker migration to latin american countries. and this supports the u.s. policy of latin american ecoic development. in summation. let me say that international organizations like who and icem face two immediate problems: first. the potentially disruptive problems of political issues being debated in technical and humanitarian enterprises. and. second. the ever increasing budgetary demands in order to fulfill their purposes. the former can be alleviated by the wisdom of selfrestraint. the latter problem is really the problem of meeting needs. and all we can do is to be watchful that budgetary increases go to meet expanding needs and  bureaucratic and administrative expenses. icem and who are doing important jobs and deserve the continuing support of the american people. while congress should constantly review their activities. for the information of the senate. i wish to include the following as part of my report: budget charts for who and icem along with a series of charts showing u.s. contributions to international organizations and programs over a period of years.
