. my opposition to legislated automobile import quotas is well kn. however. it is an issue upon which honest men and women. both in the congress and in the administration. have disagreed. mr. eugene mcallister. the walker fellow in ecoics at the heritage foundation has written a brief. but cogent background paper on the issue entitled "import quotas: an unwise solution." i ask that mr. mcallisters background paper be printed in the record. the paper follows:
 reagan called for major reform in agricultural trade. at present. our sugar price supports and tight import quotas are neither free  fair. this bill provides a start on the road toward an honest coordination of our trade policies with our domestic agriculture programs.. by mr. wilson:
madam president. i congratulate the senator from texas for his hard work in connection with this highway legislation. he was right when he said that it was his efforts that brought what was considered the 4.3cent gasoline tax. that then went in the general fund. into the highway trust. fund. i have to confess that i was  an enthusiastic supporter of that effort. but i can certainly see the rationale behind it. the senator had the votes and. as i recall. won that vote rather overwhelmingly. the senator has been intensely interested in the situation that  only affects his state but a series of states leading to the border. the additional traffic that has been generated by a program i was for. he was for and that i believe has been a great benefit overall for our country but has been very difficult on his state and some of the neighboring states. and that is the socalled nafta truckloads. where these trucks are rumbling down into mexico and from mexico up into the united states carrying goods. which was the whole objective of what we sought when we passed the th american free trade agreement. the distinguished senior senator from texas has worked very hard to provide some extra money to take care of those roads that are taking an incredible pounding from the nafta trucks. in the agreement that we have reached. we have provided. as a result of the pressing of the senator from texas. some $450 million. which we will be presenting to the committee tomorrow. and it is my hope and belief that the committee will approve that additional money. i tip my hat to the senator from texas. he is a veritable bulldog in connection with these matters. when he and the senior senator from west virginia team up. it is a formidable aggregation. i salute both of them. as a matter of fact. they came away with everything they sought. but in the agreement that we reached. they made some concessions to other programs that they might  have been too enthusiastic about. so the whole thing was a compromise. all of us had to give. and i think the result is a good one for our country. what will happen next. madam president. i and the distinguished ranking member of the environment committee will take this to our committee tomorrow. we are both for it. we will be salesmen for it. we are  just messengers. we are salesmen for this program. the staffs have met and appear to be enthusiastic about what we are undertaking here. we look forward to our meeting tomorrow. if all goes well. we could report it out. and then i believe that we can bring up financial matters until wednesday. that is. amendments that deal with financial matters to this bill. but that can be changed. and we can. hopefully. bring up this amendment that the senator from texas was discussing.
madam president. i congratulate the senator from texas for his hard work in connection with this highway legislation. he was right when he said that it was his efforts that brought what was considered the 4.3cent gasoline tax. that then went in the general fund. into the highway trust. fund. i have to confess that i was  an enthusiastic supporter of that effort. but i can certainly see the rationale behind it. the senator had the votes and. as i recall. won that vote rather overwhelmingly. the senator has been intensely interested in the situation that  only affects his state but a series of states leading to the border. the additional traffic that has been generated by a program i was for. he was for and that i believe has been a great benefit overall for our country but has been very difficult on his state and some of the neighboring states. and that is the socalled nafta truckloads. where these trucks are rumbling down into mexico and from mexico up into the united states carrying goods. which was the whole objective of what we sought when we passed the th american free trade agreement. the distinguished senior senator from texas has worked very hard to provide some extra money to take care of those roads that are taking an incredible pounding from the nafta trucks. in the agreement that we have reached. we have provided. as a result of the pressing of the senator from texas. some $450 million. which we will be presenting to the committee tomorrow. and it is my hope and belief that the committee will approve that additional money. i tip my hat to the senator from texas. he is a veritable bulldog in connection with these matters. when he and the senior senator from west virginia team up. it is a formidable aggregation. i salute both of them. as a matter of fact. they came away with everything they sought. but in the agreement that we reached. they made some concessions to other programs that they might  have been too enthusiastic about. so the whole thing was a compromise. all of us had to give. and i think the result is a good one for our country. what will happen next. madam president. i and the distinguished ranking member of the environment committee will take this to our committee tomorrow. we are both for it. we will be salesmen for it. we are  just messengers. we are salesmen for this program. the staffs have met and appear to be enthusiastic about what we are undertaking here. we look forward to our meeting tomorrow. if all goes well. we could report it out. and then i believe that we can bring up financial matters until wednesday. that is. amendments that deal with financial matters to this bill. but that can be changed. and we can. hopefully. bring up this amendment that the senator from texas was discussing.
the post gives the figure as $3.000.000. i am confused. you are confused. and i think everybody else is confused because reference is made one day to tons. the next day to barrels. and the next day to dollars. i wish they would use one single standard that we all could understand. i am going to keen on trying to make them do that. the editorial reads further as follows: c moreover. tankers used in hauling this oil abroad. to be sold at prices cheaper than those we  pay for oil. are vitally needed to bring oil to the theast. these are  newly discovered facts. indeed. the same facts were called to the attention of the executive branch of our federal government. and secretary of commerce averill harriman testified before a congressional committee last ember that he could regulate the export or stop the export of oil to foreign countries. secretary harriman was asked if he could divert this export oil to the area of this country  suffering from a fueloil shortage. and his assistant. a  of the committee on ember 26. secretary harriman was asked if he could divert these exports of oil to areas  suffering from a fueloil shortage. his assistant. mr. blaisdell testified on december 19 that he could accomplish this diversion in 15 minutes. that is the testimony of mr. blaisdell before the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. we have heard many remarks by some of our friends from the midwest about an alleged inconsistency on the part of some of us in the theast in being willing to support a decent europeanaid program. because we say it is advisable first. for humanitarian reasons. second. because of our own selfinterest. and third. because we want this country to remain strong in this world. but let us see what the post says: if the growing opposition to the europeanrecovery plan surprises the administration or the proponents of the plan. they have merely to contemplate the natural resentment that people of the theast feel when they see their taxes going to finance huge oil shipments to europe at a cost far lower than they can buy it themselves. the new england states are  asking for charity. they seek the means of keeping themselves from freezing in one of the worst winters on record. in a time when distribution systems are as far advanced as they are today it is shameful that new englanders must follow the progress of a single tanker loaded with fuel oil toward port as if it were a treasure ship bearing a longawaited fortune. so much for that. that is accurate. gover bradford wired yesterday as follows: boston. mass.. february 3. 1948. ion. john w. heselton. house office building. washington. ). c.: if we had 514.000 barrels of kerosene and 610.000 barrels of  2 to the end of march in addition to what suppliers say they expect we would have sufficient to take care of all means. for first 10 days of february we have 76 percent of kerosene demand and 80 percent of  2.
madam president. a point of great importance in the legislation which i have proposed is that the president would be given authority to reduce tariffs or quota protection on a graduated basis. if he invokes such protection as a result of the tariff commissions recommendations. the president has such authority . let us consider. for example. the textile business. which feels very seriously that it needs a breather and that it needs quotas in order that it may have a chance. taking it at the very best. to adjus. its business to the competition it is releiving from japan. hong kong. and other places. let us assume that negotiations for a voluntary quota do  reach complete maturity. if the president should impose quotas. he does  have the authority under present law. if he acts upon the recommendation of the tariff commission. to phase out these quotas. and be fair to the foreign policy of the united states. my bill would provide the president with the authority to phase out such quotas imposed according to the recommendations of the tariff commission. over a period of 7 years. this is extremely important authority. it will be extremely helpful to our foreign policy and very reassuring to other countries with whom we do business. at the same time. it will be helpful to american business. the trade adjustment idea. which i have just mentioned. is  new. it has been discussed for the last 10 years. its successful application is essential right . otherwise we shall have a very serious reverse in the reciprocal trade agreements policy because of the controversy which has been engendered throughout the country by the hurt which is inflicted upon certain segments of business or certain individual businesses and workers by concentrated imports. this situation needs to be compensated for. it is a hurt administered because of public interest. therefore. the federal government needs to give help in order to alleviate the damage which the condition causes. i believe that we must have a clear perspective on the domestic effects of import competition before we can hope to see foreign trade as a successful instrument of our foreign ecoic policy. here are the facts that i believe put the trade issues into proper perspective. first. u.s. imports of products considered competitive. even to a mi degree. with domestic production. amounted in 1960 to some $7 billion. this was 1.4 percent of our gross national product. a decrease of $1 billion in such imports would have increased the total number of our employed by 86.000oneeighth of 1 percent of our labor force. about 2 percent of our 4 million unemployed last year. of course. even this very small hypothetical increase in employment would have been at the price of much more unemployment when our exports were cut back as the result of inevitable foreign retaliation. on the other hand. if imports of lamb and mutton. wilton and velveteen carpets. scissors and shears. cotton pillowcases. and compact automobiles had been cut off during the past few yearsan import reduction averaging about $582 million a yearthe u.s. consumer would have ended up paying some $1 billion more for the purchase of these or similar products during 1960. lack of competition would have forced prices up. lack of foreign compact cars could well have caused further delays in the manufacture of these less expensive models by american manufacturers. in accordance with the employment estimates given above. this $582 million reduction in imports initially might have resulted in some 57.000 jobs for american workers. but on this basis. the american consumer would have been paying at the rate of $17.50l a year for each of these workers. the cost of protectionism to the american consumer is highin terms of money. quality. and choice. the benefit to the american workerwho is also a consumercancels itself out. during the debate on the extension of the sugar act. two members of the senate pointed out that the cost of subsidies on sugar. built around import and domestic production quotas. comes to around $600 million to $700 million a year. the effects of imposed quotas and tariff barriers. however. reach beyond the cost to the american consumer as compared even to a small and probably temporary employment benefit. it includes the cost of inflated profits for some producers who are longer exposed to the rigors of import competition. it is estimated that a 3centperpound increase in the tariff on lead. superimposed on the present import quota. might draw some 250 u.s. marginal producers back into the leadmining business to mine some 147.000 additional tons of lead. however. the total additional cost of lead to the american consumer would come to almost $35 million a year. of which it is estimated $14.8 million would be in the form of windfall profits for lead producers who are able to compete with imports at the present tariff rate. the facts which i have outlined were perhaps best summed up by the man who put a "buy american" sticker on the rear bumper of his volkswagen.  only had a twoway import policy enabled him to buy an inexpensive foreign cara purchase which he might  have been able to make at all if the united states had kept out car imports--but in the coming years he will have the choice to "buy american" because of the changes brought about in american automobile production as the result of import competition. the very manufacture of compact cars in the united states reduced foreign imports of such cars materially. i think the american consumer ought to consider that situation very carefully before he jumps from the frying pan of concentrated imports into the fire of imposed quotas. and deprives himself of the opportunity of buying better or inducing american manufacturers to manufacture better. in short. madam president. the cost to the american consumer is high. and the cost of subsidies to the american taxpayerfor example. subsidies of the type which we are being urged to adopt in regard to lead and zincis also very high. and the cost to american workers. in terms of the exports of americanproduced goods. is also very high. these are the standards we had better consider before we jump into protectionism on a large scale. as we are being urged to do. it is significant that the decline of 223.000 new automobiles imported in 1960. as compared to 1959. accounted for 40 percent of the $553 million drop in general imports between these 2 years. the american automobile industry. which had  really entered the small car field until 1959. more than doubled its 1959 production of 755.000 of these cars in 1960. imports. which amounted to 7 percent of net sales of domestic production in 1959. dropped to 4.2 percent of net domestic sales during 1960. that happened because our automobile industry "got on the ball" and did something about that situation. that is the way to deal with import competition. the protectionist way is very much the wrong way.  all elements of all industries. however. have the capital. the sales and service systems. or the technical skills to meet their foreign competition with such success. this problem can be especially acute for enterprises in industries where a high degree of domestic competition already prevails. it is therefore necessary to help certain parts of. or individual enterprises in. such industries. in meeting or in adjusting to the additional pressures of import competition. the textile and apparel industries are outstanding examples of the need for specifically directed assistance. extended within a framework of an import policy in the national interest. there is a real problem in these industries. they need and deserve help. and it is entirely feasible to give them specific help consistent with the national interest. import of textile and apparel represent a very low percentage of net domestic sales. in 1959. it was 4 percent for textiles and 1.9 percent for apparel. as compared to 7 percent in the automobile industry. and in 1960. it was 4.6 percent and 2.1 percent. respectively. as compared to the greatly reduced 4.2 percent for automobiles. but elements of these industries are feeling seriously the impact of foreign competition. and they should be assisted. companies. for example. that depend for a major part of their income on sale of cotton sheeting are clearly affected. sheeting alone was responsible for 181 million square yardsor 57 percentof the entire import increase in cotton fabrics between 1958 and 1960. but relatively few competitive fabrics enter the united states. imports of cotton fabrics during 1960 amounted to 486 million square yards4.2 percent of total u.s. production. it is the concentrated nature of these imports which gives rise to the requirement for selective assistance. my office has prepared a series of tables on imports. sales. and profits in the textile and apparel industries over the past 6 years. these tables present an industrywide picture. as well as some comparison with respect to leading firms within the two industries. these data differ from those usually used with respect to textile imports. the tables i am using refer to the value of imports. instead of the quantity of imports. the quantity figures commonly discussed do  take into account sufficiently the great variation in quality and cost of the material imported. i believe the data i am presenting here. based on import value. meet more closely the need to gain a perspective of the true ecoic impact of import competition and what should be done about it. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the tables be printed at this point in the record.
i thank my colleague. what caused judge coopers troubles was that he rode a bicycle on a street that had buses on it. that is  a very good practice for bicycling. central park in new york has wonderful bicycle paths. there are many areas in our state. especially on long island. which are rather level and lend themselves happily to even longdistance bicycling. i thank my colleague for his very pleasant interjection. the first point i make is that the pending bill would cost consumers an estimated million and a half dollars a year. this does  mean that american manufacturers are  entitled to proper recompense and a fair profit. however. they should stand in some relative competitive position in terms of efficiency and in terms of the makeup of the product. i believe the point which we are talking about is the relative competition as between american manufacturers and those who export bicycles to us. the second point is that the american bicycle manufacturing industry has been doing pretty well. generally speaking. we have designed our peril point and escape clause protections for domestic manufacturers on the basis of "serious injury." which are the words of art incorporated in the law. according to our figures. the sales of u.s. producers in the u.s. market of bicycles have risen from 1.8 million units in 1955 to 2.6 million units in 1961. the relationship of u.s. sales to sales of foreign makes in the u.s. market has increased in that period from a ratio of 60 to 40 to a ration of 70 to 30. i believe it is fair to say that it is for that reason that relief is sought by a change in the definition. rather than relief being sought through the invocation of the escape clause. or. if there are new negotiations. under the peril point provisions of the law. i think this is extremely important. because the definition was  a basisthat is. the definition which is changed by the billor an element in the trade negotiations or in the customs designation which resulted in the tariff act provision which  obtains with respect to socalled lightweight bicycles. the three items which were factors in regard to defining this type of bicycle are the overall weight. the wheel circumference. and the width of tire. there is claim that the overall weight. wheel circumference. or width of tire on the bicycles which are complained about are any different from the overall weight. wheel circumference. or width of tire of the traditional lightweight bicycle. the bicycle industry in the united states contends that the term "lightweight bicycles" is intended to mean bicycles made with frames entirely of straight tubes. which are called diamond frames. it is contended that the american industry developed a lightweight bicycle in about 1954. having a curved top bar and a tire diameter somewhat wider than that of the traditional lightweight british bicycle. it is  claimed that under cover of the lightweight classification. the british and other producers are importing bicycles into the united states having the same curved frame and are giving them the benefit of the low duties for lightweight bicycles. it is claimed by the industry that this represents a deception. that it was never intended that those bicycles should be classed as lightweight bicycles or be covered by reciprocal trade agreements relating to lightweight bicycles. and that therefore the bill should be passed. the difficulty with that position is that the tariff commission and other executive agencies of the government do  agreeand i am confident that those who send the bicycles here would  agree. we all understand thatthat the particular bicycles complained about weigh as much as or less than the traditional lightweight bicycles to which i have referred. or that the tire width is the same as or less than that of the traditional lightweight bicycle. so that it would seem to qualify under the law and under the reciprocal trade agreements. but the industry claims it was never so "intended." that particular word- is used. although this is a way in which a colorable claim upon which the bill can be based. it seems to me that the essence or thrust of the bill is to double the tariff on bicycles with respect to which domestic manufacturers believe there is competition. i have stated the fate of the consumer. it is estimated that the consumer will pay $1.500.000 more for 300.000 bicycles than he pays . let us consider what will happen to other american manufacturers. let us understand that if the bill should become law. it will be necessary for the united states to renegotiate or terminate its agreement with the united kingdom. an agreement which is also of substantial importance. because of the mostfavorednations clause with respect to belgium. the netherlands. germany. france. and italy we must expectand it is confidently expected that it will happenthat compensation will have to be given for the change in agreement. we shall have to give some reciprocal consideration. and this will be a disadvantage to manufacturers of other products. for if we do  provide reciprocal consideration. there will be retaliation by foreign exporters in nations which are affected. whatever may happen to my particular position upon the bill in the last days of this session of congress. let me predict that if the bill becomes law. there will be the same outcry and the same headline which occurred with respect to the u.s. action on glass and carpets. when those tariffs were raised. placing a burden upon others than those particular american makers. a burden which also disrupted the opportunity for ourselves and the european common market to reach some kind of agreement. let us remember that the fundamental intent of the trade expansion act of 1962. which was approved only yesterday. is to enable the united states to reach more agreements with the principal exporting countries of the world. yet here we are. the very next day. going the same way to obstruct that very opportunity on the part of our government by taking action which changes studied agreements and very materially offends other nations. i do  speak of offending them in terms of their feelings. but in terms of their capability and intention to retaliate. such retaliation is  an idle matter. i refer to the fact that when the united states increased the tariffs on glass and carpets. the european ecoic community promptly caused retaliatory action to be taken. costing more in terms of u.s. exports than the amount by which the united states benefited by its tariff increase. the retaliation against u.s. exports was estimated to be $36 million. as compared to the advantage allegedly gained by american makers of carpet and glass in the united states. which amounted to about $27 million in exports to the united states which were lost to the same european ecoic community countries. the tariff increases with which they retaliated were the following: $8.1 million in manmade fiber textiles. $3 million in paints and varnishes. and $25 million in polyethylene. indeed. eight u.s. textile firms having main offices or production facilities in new york state. which exhibited their products at the fair in frankfurt. germany. last june. expect to lose their markets as a result of the european common markets retaliation against the glass and carpet tariff increases. other firms in new york have written to me that their relatively small businesses will be wiped out or severely hurt by this retaliation. it is believed that by reason of retaliation against the enactment of the bill and the increase in the bicycle tariff there will be a $7.500.000 to $10 million export loss by the united kingdom and the nations in the european ecoic community. we can be absolutely certain that retaliation will take place at the very minimum in that amount. probably more. but instead of the burden falling upon the bicycle manufacturers. it will fall on some other manufacturers who have some part of the export trade which will be disadvantaged. i say to my farm friends that they. too. had better take a pretty hard look at this proposal. what we are trying to do. more than anything else. in our relations with the european common market. is to have that market lift its restrictions. such as those which exist on fruits and agricultural products of that type. and  to impose restrictions on poultry and similar products. but this bill is  the way to approach them in respect of obtaining that kind of concession. this bill repeals a concessionthat is the way they will define it. without any questionwhich they have enjoyed under a trade agreement entered into deliberately. the repercussions will  be very happy. again. i do  speak in terms of outraged feelings. i speak in terms of the hard coin of retaliatory action. in terms of exports and imports. one of the significant aspects of the world in which we  live is that the european ecoic community is longer a europe depending on the marshall plan. it has personality and capability for conducting negotiations of its own. as was shown in the retaliatory increase in answer to the tariff increase which the united states imposed on carpets and glass. so my prediction of retaliation is  merely conversation. it is based upon hard experience which we have already had. and upon what is very clearly indicated will be the likely outcome of enacting the bill. let us remember also that the agreement made with respect to these bicycles was made only 18 months ago. and that the problem will arise with the very same nations with which we had the problem of attrition. the collision of interest. as it were. in respect of the tariff increases on carpets and glass. the danger of retaliation and of the tension which will be created between the negotiating parties. is. in my opinion. a very real and present danger. as to the last point which i made when i opened the discussion. it seems to me that we must understand . as we are out in a trading world in which we face serious competition. that we can have things all our own way. the flow of trade can be all one way. if we wish to expand our exportsand it is essential. in our national interest. that we do sowe must also expand our imports. after all. one result can happen in the absence of the other. it would be most improvident for us to bury our heads in the sand. like ostriches. and think we could undertake this sort of measure. in dealing with bicycles. by means of a redefinition which. in effect. would double the tariff and would invalidate the agreements we made only 18 months ago with other .nations. and  expect them to retaliate and to doubt very seriously our purpose in enacting the trade expansion act of 1962. i realize that a member of the senate is constantly subjected to pressures from many groups. and undoubtedly such pressures have their effect. either wittingly or unwittingly. therefore.  broad negotiating authority. and in view of the fact that that bill was reportedunanimously. i believeby the senate finance committee. i do  feel that congress can properly fail to shape the measure  before us so it will accord with the purposes of the trade expansion act of 1962. which only yesterday was acted on by the senate. therefore. i have drafted an amendment which i send to the desk and ask to have stated. the amendment carries out the fundamental purpose i have in mind: to shape this bill in such a way as to have it meet the requirements of the trade expansion act of 1962.
. selfrespect requires me to reply. because just so much has been said as to need reply. one has asked me to offer my amendment. i have said this before having offered this amendment. actually. there are manufacturers in my state of whose future. and that of their workers. i am deeply solicitous. i am also deeply solicitous about those who work in the export industries in my state. i say to the senator from oklahoma that i simply do  fear retaliation. i confidently predict it. there has been retaliation with respect to carpets and glass. and there will be retaliation on the bicycle bill. the reason why there will be retaliation is that the rates under the trade agreement that has been referred to are explicit. they refer to "bicycles." they do  refer to bicycles having curved frames or bicycles having diamond frames. they refer to bicycles of a certain weight and having a certain tire width and wheel diameter. if any further confirmation of that is needed. mr. paul kaplowitz. general counsel of the u.s. tariff commission. said precisely that. as it appears on page 15 of the hearings. he said: well. the only point that i would like to make is that the description in the agreement does  use the term "lightweight" but describes a bicycle in terms of specifications by weight and circumference of the wheels. the tires. that was his statement. so i do  fear retaliation. i confidently predict it. it will be harmful and most unwise for the united states. in view of our trade policy. i say to senators and to the attachds that i shall be finished in about 3 minutes. i hope the attach6s will invite as many senators as are in the corridors and elsewhere to come to the chamber. i hope to have a division vote upon my amendment. and that will settle the question. i am  a child. i k that a determined senator in the last days of the session could kill the bill. if he insisted on doing so under the rules.
madam president. i call the attention of the senate to one of the most nettling problems that faces us in th vietnam. it is a fact that a great deal of the supplies to th vietnam is coming by sea. though. of course. the soviet union or other communist states are shipping supplies into vietnam. i again call attention to the fact that goods are being shipped to th vietnam from countries in the free world. by some of our stoutest allies. including japan and france. it is true that ships engaged in this traffic flying the flags of great britain. cyprus. greece. liberia. and way. are  always under the direct control of their governments. nevertheless. governments can deny registration. and can persuade the owners of these ships to withdraw their vessels from the trade. it would help us if they would stop supplying that country with those supplies. in addition. one of the countries with the most ships flying its flag. great britain. is a great friend of ours. i say that with sarcasm. but with the greatest conviction. we should do all we can to get the british to call off these ships. it is a fact that the trade is small and does  involve strategic goods. it seems to me our people should recognize the fact that it is small. nevertheless. it is nettling to us while we expend great amounts of human and material resources in vietnam. and it seems to me we should do all we can to get great britain. as well as other countries. to cut that trade materially. on february 141 wrote secretary rusk and asked him to state the administrations position on this question and to describe u.s. actions currently underway to eliminate this trade. on march 4 i received a reply from the department. the key points in this letter are as follows: first. we have approached several countries involved in shipping these goods to th vietnam. as a result. the number of ships involved in the trade has declined sharply. for the last 6 months. the monthly average of calls by free world vessels to the port of haiphong has dropped to 14 as compared with 34 per month in 1964. second. among the countries with ships calling on th vietnam ports. four are u.s. aid recipients: cyprus. greece. liberia. and way. all of the four aid recipient countries are taking steps to remove their ships from the trade in order to continue to qualify for u.s. aid. third. great britain. which has by far the largest number of free world vessels in th vietnam trade is  an aid recipient. secretary rusk and under secretary mann are in touch with the government of the united kingdom to deal with the rather complex problems involved in removing britishflag vessels from this trade. many of these ships are small coastal vessels owned and registered in hong kong by chinese communist operators. yet by virtue of their registry are entitled to fly the british flag. there is indication in the letter of the progress being made in our talks with the united kingdom. fourth. on february 12 the maritime administration annced in the federal register that the president has approved a policy of barring u.s. government financed cargoes from foreignflag ships calling at th vietnam on or after january 26. five free world ships were involved in this first anncementthree british. one cypriot. and one greekand they will be barred from carrying u.s. financed cargoes from u.s. ports. these ships will be able to visit u.s. ports. however. and carry privately financed cargo. it is my understanding that as a result of these actions. there was a sharp drop in free world trade with th vietnam during the second half of 1965. during the first half of 1965. free world exports to th vietnam totaled $7.2 million. with japan. malaysia. france. and the benelux being principal exporters. free world imports from th vietnam in this same period totaled $13.3 million with japan. france. hong kong. and cambodia being the principal importers. imports from th vietnam involved principally anthracite coal. while exports involved mostly textiles. foodstuffs. and fertilizers. the state departments actions to date have been effective and i hope that its further efforts will result in the elimination of this trade in the near future. once the vietnam conflict has been terminated. with a just solution. it has already been made clear that we would be willing to reconsider our policy toward trade with th vietnam and to consider seriously the inclusion of a trade agreement between the united states and th vietnam as part of the overall settlement in vietnam. i ask unanimous consent that a letter sent to me by the state department. together with my letter to the secretary of state. and tables indicating the value and countries involved in this trade. may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
with all due respect to my colleague. i think it is hardly within the spirit of the amendments that the chairman thought could be put on this tariff bill vehicle at this time. the senator differs with the customs people. he differs with the diplomatic judgment or the legal judgment on the implications to the gatt agreements. neither committee had a hearing on it. it seems to me that it hardly qualifies as one of those things which is pretty unanimous. as the chairman said he can take whatever. generally speaking. is unanimous on the bill. i would love to oblige my colleague. but it seems to me that we are venturing very much in a highly controverted area. without even the government department concerned in agreement. i would hope very much that the senator does  feel he wants to press this amendment . because as i say. the spirit of the chairmans offer to the senate was that he would take things that were generally agreed to. personally. i do  see how i can possibly agree to this one.
