. i am voting for this bill because the integrity of our ecoy demands it. because a belated attack on inflation is better than e. because failure of this bill could trigger an international monetary crisis. possible devaluation of the dollar and effects e can foretell. but the future of our nation. the solution to our urban crisis. the uplifting of 30 million poor demand in an equally loud voice that social programs  be cut back but be expanded by changing our priorities and reallocating our essential spending. i trust the administration will  turn a deaf ear. i urge passage of this bill in the national interest.
i believe this has been a very useful exchange. on a level that does the senate credit. the senator from south dakota ks this subject from long experience. and the senator from massachusetts ks it from a shorter experience but from a deep study of it. there is right on both sides. the difference between 2 percent and 3 percent is  very large. the question is: where do we put it. my own consideration of this matter has led me to the view that until we have had the kind of deep study of this foreign aid program that i hope is going to be instituted under the guidance of our committee on foreign relationsthe chairman. as the senator ks. has been considering plans for this for some time--it might be well to leave the situation in its present state so far as the interest rate on development loans is concerned. that is where i come to rest on this question. i think the senator from south dakota and the senator from ohio. and others. have done a real service in. as the senator said. requiring that we make a real distinction between loans and grants in this entire business of foreign aid. i think we have done that. an interest rate of 2 percent is  high. it involves a subsidy. so does 3 percent. there is involved only the question of how much. it seems to me we have established that we are making loans and  grants under the development loan program. it might be well to hold the 2 percent rate for aher year or so until we have done what i think we must do. which is to make a very. very careful study as to whether our program is sound in all of its aspects. if it is sound in any event. indeed. recently many people have studied this matter. gunnar myrdal has studied the matter very deeply. and he has come up with the conclusion that for the most part foreign aid has  been very helpful. that there is  very much a country can do for aher country if the recipient country is  going to make the effort itself. and that much of our foreign aid program has been wasted money and has gone the wrong way. such conclusions are shocking to liberal groups. to which gunar myrdal has a right to belong and does belong. all of this indicates we should have a basic look at this matter. i suggest that in considering this question real harm can be done in the distinction between loans and grants by leaving the interest rate at 2 percent for the next year. i think i find quite persuasive the general proposition that "you do  give or lend money to anybody for anything that is  worthwhile." once it is decided to do this then it is done on the basis that would be most helpful to the country to which the money is given.
. if it is in order. i send to the desk a technical amendment to the committee bill. correcting a technical error in section 16. as currently worded. section 16(a) (4). dealing with an earmark of funds for the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees. is  clear that such earmark is for funds authorized in fiscal year 1979. this amendment makes that technical correction.
. i think the figures have been gone into in the colloquy here. the law which this appropriation responds to. which is the mutual security act. we just passed. states that the contributions to the u. n. childrens fund shall be made until december 31. 1953. that is what this $16.000.000 covers. in other words  a year but a year and a half. i again read from the law: provided. that the contributions shall be made in such a manner as to give assurance that they will  exceed 33%h percent of contributions from all governments. including contributions made by governments for the benefit of persons located within territories under their control. so that there can be money expended unless it be on the onethird basis. except that my coleague from mississippi makes the point that the application of the onethird includes contributions made by governments for the benefit of all persons under their control. and in this case that means significantly. children. i think he is trying to cut this thingi think that is clear from the figureseven more than he would want to cut it when he asked to cut it down to $6.000.000. that is about onethird of $20.c0.000. the one years budget. while a year and a halfs budget would be $30.000.000 and called for $10.000.000 even on his formula. the american delegation which dealt with this subject at the united nations general assembly. generally speaking. wanted this program continued by the specialized agencies of the u. n. acting directly without continuing unicef. nevertheless. the great preponderance of u. n. members wanted it continued. we felt as a matter of our standing in the world that we could  afford. where we were dealing with children. to stay out of unicef. that is why we had to go into it.
. while the congress was in recess. the government of egypt under colonel nasser made a unilateral declaration as to the conditions under which the maritime nations of the world may use the newly opened suez canal. under circumstances of continued tension and threat of explosion in the near east. the key point for us continues to be the suez canal. it was the nationalization of suez which started the chain of events that created the mideast crisis. it will be our success in respect of suez in assuring the use of the canal under the six principles adopted by the united nations security council with egypts concurrence. with participation in these assurances by the canals principal user. that will determine whether we or the communistoriented policy of colonel nasser will have won the day in the middle east. let us  forget that this canal was bottled up by colonel nasser so that it could  be used for months. and was cleared by the united nations with united states support. also. that the suez canal is the jugular vein to this day for france. great britain. our two principal allies in the free world. it would be selfdelusion to describe events to date in respect of the suez canal as other than colonel nassers" having his way with the whole free world and a sharp reverse for our foreign policy. we saved colonel nasser by insisting upon the united nations charter guaranties and the evacuation of british. french. and israeli forces from suez and sinai. we saved him again from his own communist allies by serving ice on the soviet union. which might have led to atomic war. that we would tolerate volunteers in the near east. but that does  seem to count for very much with colonel nasser. on the contrary. we have found egyptian policy diametrically opposed to ours in the jordan crisis. there. by our invocation of the newly adopted "eisenhower doctrine" for the mideast. and a king who will  be pushed around by communists and their friends. jordans existence as an independent country is apparently being retained instead of its being dismembered at the hands of its communistoriented. alleged friends. egypt and syria. two steps are  vital for us. first. we should give prompt leadership to the principal users of the canal with respect to finding alternate means for the transportation of petroleum products to free europe. for this purpose. six senators have introduced senate resolution 120. the state department has filed its report on the measure. and it should have a prompt hearing by the committee on foreign relations. second. our government should immediately back signers of the constantile convention in invoking those provisionscontained in item 9--of egypts unilateral suez canal declaration which agree to arbitration and accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the international court of justice. under it. such questions may be raised as the assurance of full freedom of transit for all through the suez canal pursuant to the constantile convention of 1888 and the linking of the canals operation to the politics of egypt. compensation for claims in connection with the nationalization of the canal. and responsibility for establishment and collection of tolls. whatever setbacks colonel nasser suffers in other quarters. success or failure of his policy is the suez canal. this is true in terms of world prestige. "face" in the arab states. and the fundamental ecoic condition of his regime. that his regime as  run is a jittery dictatorship and afraid of disclosures of the f acts is shown by its expulsion of new york herald tribune correspondent barrett mcgurn. who dared to report them. we can and must  allow ourselves to fail to continue this struggle or to accept the status quo. in support of my statement. i ask unanimous consent  to have printed in the record at this point the texts oi the documents on the suez. issued by egypt. an article entitled "egyptians agree to heed arbiters in suez disputes." published in the new york times of april 25. 1957. an article entitled "united states set to accept cairos suez plan." published in the new york times of april 24. 1957. an editorial entitled "nasser and the law." published in the new york times of april 29. 1957. an editorial entitled. "suez and the security council." published in the new york herald tribune of april 26. 1957. and a release issued by the overseas press club of america. protesting the expulsion of barrett mcgurn.
. it seems to me that those who are the most active in the feeling that we ought to cut down on our foreign aid commitment. are those who should the most favor what i am proposing. because it is our one way of going out and getting partner s and thereby relieving us and our budget of the continuous requirement for foreign aid.
i am reminded of the fact that we were told only the other night that something could  be done. but it was done because the senate insisted on acting on the subject of immigration. so i could  agree more with the senator from kentucky when he says we should try to accomplish this purpose. because the object is certainly worthy of our effort. fourthand this comes to the point i was making earlierlet us utilize this opportunity to strengthen cooperation among the countries of the free world in respect to ecoic and other problems of the utmost importance. and to strengthen the effectiveness of our regional organizations. if the effectiveness of the united nations can be strengthened because of the russian bloc. the effectiveness of nato. seato. and other regional organizations of which we are a part can be strengthened. finally. i join with the senator from kentucky in the pledge that whatever amount is necessary will be spent. if more taxes are necessary. i will vote for them. just as the senator from kentucky says he will vote for them. it is high time the whole country awoke to the fact that we do  get anything for hing. we certainly do  get freedom for hing. it has cost oceans of the blood of many. many millions of men throughout history. and tons and tons of money. and in my opinion. the price is cheaper . we must make up our minds that we love freedom more than life or money. otherwise we will  preserve them. i congratulate the senator from kentucky for again sparking. as he has so often done. the idea of a sound. constructive. positive way in which to deal with the foreign policy of our nation. i am delighted to have the privilege of sitting next to him and of joining with him in this debate.
. r ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record extracts from the report. together with budget estimates which the secretary general submitted for the united nations expeditionary force from january 1 to december 31. 1962.
i thank the senator from iowa for his valuable contribution. the seventh item of action which ought to be taken is to broaden our liquidity base and add to our dwindling gold reserves. a situation which has been caused by the annual imbalance of our international payments. our role as the worlds banker. as creditor to the world. our postwar efforts to rebuild the ruined ecoies of western europe and japan. and our ecoic assistance to developing nations and the high cost of military expenditure for western defense are the key reasons why our gold reserves today are at their lowest level since 1939. the unequal sharing of western military defense burden. for example. is indicated by the fact that in 1962 we spent 9.8 percent of our gross national product on defense. while france spent 6.5 percent. germany. 5.1 percent. italy. 3.5 percent. turkey. 5.4 percent. canada. 4.5 percent. and the united kingdom 6.4 percent of their gross national product. the first order is to bring international balance of payments under control. assuming our ability to achieve that objective through a suitable ecoic and fiscal policy. we should make permanent arrangements with our principal creditors. through the international monetary fund. as a result of the international monetary conference which i propose. for sufficient credit to take care of present and foreseeable needs of international trade and investment. i believe our european friends should cooperate with us in such a venture out of selfinterest. the present liquidity base. considering foreseeable conditions today. is too narrow for a growing world. we must come to grips with this problem. and the international monetary conference method is the way to do it. eighth. we should constantly keep in mind that the maintenance of barriers to trade by ourselves and by our major trading partners is very much tied in with our balanceofpayments problem. cix779 i therefore urge that our trade negotiators make full use of existing authority under the trade expansion act in the forthcoming gatt trade negotiations. should the authority under this act be insufficient. congress should immediately consider amendments that have been or may be proposed at this session of congress. to obtain for the president additional tariffcutting authority. the senator from illis has offered such a proposal. i introduced a bill to this effect as far back as january 30. both of these proposals are designed to deal with the problems caused by the rejection of membership for the united kingdom in the european ecoic community. it is already clear that this has materially hampered the increased trading possibilities which we gave the president in the trade expansion act. these are the key activities which i believe he must undertake. and which will be relevant to the present situation. . from reading an article published this morning in the washington post. i ice that the administration is  proposing some additional action on the international balanceofpayments situation. for one thing. the article informs us that we are going to draw on the international monetary fund. in accordance with our drawing rights in order to demonstrate our appreciation of the situation and in order to make this an established aspect of the aids of which we can avail ourselves in the world. furthermore. from reading the article. i ice that the administration is planning an increase in shortterm interest ratesthis was clearly indicated by the testimony of secretary dillon and under secretary roosa which has been given in the past several days before the joint ecoic committee. also. that the administration is exploring ways to further cut government spending abroad. although it is determined to carry on with our military and ecoic aidand with that. i agree. and that it is considering what it may do to promote exports. but these plans seem to me to be completely inadequate to deal with the situation which confronts us. the article also states that the administration is thinking of enlarging the number of government personnel who are looking for american trade prospects. but that is rather small potatoes. compared with the size of the problem we are faced with in regard to the need to expand our exports. from the article we also learn that the administration is planning to make further bilateral borrowings of foreign currencies. while it is stated that the united states has already borrowed $630 million of swiss and belgian francs. austrian schillings. lire. and marks. however. that would seem to me again to be only a temporary palliative. it looks to me that the article indicates. and the testimony the joint ecoic committee has received also indicates. that the administration is reaching for a "package" aimed at reducing the balanceofpayments deficit and at improving our international situation. but. if we are to have such a "package." i believe it should be one which would do some real good. that is the purpose of my speech today. i believe we have had some helpful action. but it has  been egh. inasmuch as the imbalance of payments continues at about the same rate as that since 1958. we do  want to turn to domestic austeritywhich other countries have done. but we do  think it either necessary or desirable. neither do we want to relinquish our world leadership. if we do  do that. we must do something else. which means really to move in terms of enlarged and increased exports through granting effective incentives to our exporters and improving our international credit basis and our activities as an international banker. in terms of the interest rate we charge for funds loaned. and also in terms of dealing with other countries. and also in terms of what we are prepared to do in connection with international capital transactions. which are so important throughout the world. i invite the attention of the administrationwhich obviously is seeking a "package"-to a real "package" which would enable it to deal with the situation without having to resort to the dread alternatives of domestic austerityand i use that word in deference to the very fine views which have been expressed by the senator from wisconsin [mr. proxmire -or relinquishing our world leadership. we still have room to maneuver. but the administration must proceed in a far more comprehensive way than it has done thus far. so i urge it to take the bold step of calling an international monetary conference in order to dramatize to our own people and to the rest of the world what needs to be done about this matter.
 said that new methods of curing this imbalance in international payments will be brought up by this country at the next meeting of the international monetary fund. i feel strongly that this is the time. and the imp is the forum which should be used for the purpose of making the greatest single effort in respect of this very trying financial problem. we should discuss the calling of a wellplanned and wellorganized international monetary conference to adopt basic longterm solutions aimed at a problem which by its very nature is long term. the principal point that i shall be making today. which i believe is buttressed by every bit of evidence before us. is that the world must face the problem.  on a piecemeal basis. and  on a shortterm basis. but through a deliberate international monetary conference called. if possible. under the auspices of the international monetary fund for the purpose of reforming the international monetary system and getting on the path of such reform . there is time to waste. time is running out. and very quickly. this is an absolutely essential move on the part of our nation. the heart of the problem is that though the international monetary system has demonstrated effectiveness in such a situation as the cuban crisis and the rejection of the british application for membership in the european ecoic community. the unfortunate fact is that when the international monetary system is confronted with the problem of the maladjustment of the free worlds ecoy. the corrective mechanisms of the existing system can be relied upon to operate quickly and effectively egh. major imbalances take years to eliminate unless they are corrected by measures which hamper ecoic growth or world trade. that is the fundamental dilemma which we face. the measures which we tend to takeand i shall analyze those in a few momentsare measures which tend to hamper ecoic growth or world trade. what the worlds monetary system needs is a growing stock of international credit which would permit corrective action without penalizing one nation or one group of nations. and without disrupting international trade. as an example. very recently we increased shortterm interest rates and raised our rediscount rate in order to attract funds to the united states on a shortterm basis. we took that action withstanding the fact that the classic remedy for dealing with endemic unemployment. which is what we face in our country. is exactly to the contraryto reduce interest rates and to reduce the rediscount rate. yet. caught in the trap between the imbalance of international payments. which we can afford much longer. and our need for alleviating that situation by attracting shortterm money to the united states. we took a regressive step in terms of the fundamental ecoic difficulty of the country. namely. endemic unemployment. the basic flaw in the existing international monetary system is that it depends for additional liquidity or credit upon continuing the balanceofpayments deficits of the united states. which add dollars and gold to finance rapidly growing international financial and trade transactions. the great danger to the world is that. to the extent that we succeed in eliminating our balanceofpayments deficit. we also remove liquidity from the international monetary system equivalent to that deficit which is indispensable to its operation. i repeat that statement because it is so serious. today we are financing the world through our imbalance of international payments to the extent. in round figures. of $4 to $5 billion a year. as we eliminate our balanceofpayment deficit. we will remove the stimulus to world ecoic activity and world trade. leaving the world open to a worldivide depression. because the world has made plans to deal with this subject since world war ii except american aid and american financing of the kind that i have described. admittedly. reform of the existing monetary system would require years. but i would be greatly disappointed if an international monetary conference such as i urge should confine itself to evolving a mechanism for financing large and everincreasing deficits or confine itself exclusively to the liquidity problem. on the contrary. i believe it should undertake an inquiry into the problems of international ecoic adjustment. including such crucial and unresolved problems as the deteriorating terms of trade between industrialized and developing countries. it should undertake to consider problems related to the marketing of primary commodities as well as simple manufactures which are exported by developing countries. it should undertake to examine the strengthening of rules for international trade competition. it should also undertake to examine international business practices detrimental to increasing trade and investment. such an international monetary conference would seek to bring the ecoy of the free world abreast of the necessities of the free world as they exist today. the international imbalance in payments which we suffer is but a thermometer which shows that the patient has ecoic fever. the thermometer. if we pay attention to it. will save us. if we pay attention to it. it could destroy us. an international monetary conference such as i have described would have to be prepared with the same meticulousness as characterized the highly successful bretton woods conference in 1944. it is just as vital. in order for all to see how vital it is. i propose to examine the variety of measures put into effect by the administration in recent months to halt our international balanceofpayments deficita series of measures which i consider. as they deal with the problem. to be tantamount to building "sand castles" to protect our shores. instead of strong works of stone and concrete. there is some merit to certain of these measures on a shortterm basis. but they will  carry us through the peril. for example. there are the administrations decisions to increase shortterm interest rates. to sell treasury bonds to foreign governments deinated in their currencies. to help to establish jointly with nine other industrialized countries a $6 billion supplementary reserve for the international monetary fund in order to help those countries whose currency comes under speculative attack. and to arrange a $500 million standby credit from the international monetary fund. all of these are perfectly sound shortterm decisions. but the interest equalization tax proposal. on which the administration is placing such reliance. in the opinion of many of us will  work. the tax will  inhibit the sale of european securities in the united states. or their purchase by united states investors. the tax really has been weakened by numerous exceptions. including the exemption of commercial bank loans. the exemption of canada. and the exemption of direct investment. indeed. secretary dillon killed the proposal himself. according to the treasury departments own data. interest rates in important world financial centers would still remain significantly above our own. even after the tax was imposed. i ask unanimous consent that a memorandum to treasury secretary dillon. dated july 17. 1963. entitled "comparative longterm interest rates." be printed in the record at this point of my remarks.
. the current issue of international commerce. a weekly publication of the u.s. department of commerce. contains a series of excellent articles on the alliance for progress by teodore moscoso and seymour peyser of the agency for international development. and experts of the department of commerce and other government agencies. there has been much criticism of the alliance both in the united states and in latin america. many feel that progress has been limited. that there is much duplication and lack of coordination among u.s. government agencies concerned. that the effort thus far has  evolved into a cooperative effort of all the members of the organization of american states. and so on. as the articles in international commerce indicate. there has been much. though often undramatic. progress since the signing of the charter of punta del este in 1961. tax and land reform. greater emphasis on education. increasing interest among u.s. investors. have characterized the beginnings of this great and vital effort. one of the major shortcomings of the u.s. contributions to the alliance has been the limited role of private enterprise in carrying out the basic objectives of the alliance. through the u.s. foreign aid program we have done much to provide essential financial support toward the building of roads. schools. hospitals. power stations. the provision of agricultural credit. and so forth. the specific investment guarantee program has done its part to maintain investor confidence in the potential of latin american industry and agriculture. while our investments in latin america today remains substantial. $8.5 billion. net capital outflow from the united states to latin america has been limited. averaging under $200 million between 1957 and 1961. since mid1961. there have been. on balance. net inflows to the united states from the region. yet u.s. investments in manufacturing out of retained earningsa major source of all such investments in less developed countrieshave risen in the area. expenditures for fixed investments in plant and equipment also show a relatively wellsustained activity. without the aid of private enterpriseunited states. latin american. and europeanthe alliance for progress can succeed. the senior senator from minnesota and i are cosponsoring an effort initiated by and under the direction of a working party of the nato parliamentarians conference to bring together united states. latin american. and european capital in joint ventures in latin america through the atlantic community group for latin americaadela. the potential of the emous creative powers of private enterprise remains yet to be harnessed. we must encourage the flow of private investment to latin america through every possible means including investment guarantees. tax incentives to private investors. technical assistance. as well as loans to build roads. ports. power facilities. and so forth. our government must be willing to work closely with enlightened american business enterprise in further expanding the role of our private sectorbusiness. labor. universities. individualsin implementing the objectives of the foreign aid program in latin america and elsewhere. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a series of articles on the alliance for progress from the ember 4 issue of international commerce. including one by teodore moscoso and seymour peyser.
 of the united statesand quite justly. as there are tremendous calls upon us far exceeding our gold stock by the other central banks in the world which are dependent upon- the credit of the united states. despite the numerous steps taken by the administration thus far to deal with the continued deficit in our balance of payments. the overall success has been rather small. our gold stock declined by aher $461 million in 1963. so that at the end of that year it amounted to $15.596 million. the lowest level in our postwar history. the u.s. balanceofpayments deficit for 1963 remained at $3.020 million. below the $3.573 million deficit of 1962. but only slightly under $3.043 million in 1961. despite the administrations claim that the series of measures it has put into effect is bringing this critical problem under control. i am more convinced today than ever before that the united states must take leadership in world monetary reform. if we are to find a fundamental solution to this problem. as i stated in my remarks here last september. the u.s. balanceofpayments deficit can be solved unless we seek a basic solution. such a basic solution clearly involves the modernization of the international monetary system. while the united states must clearly exert itself to do all it can to bring its financial house in order. the u.s. balanceofpayments deficit can be. isolated from the system of which it is but a part. even if a major part. the outcome of the current study of the international monetary system by the 10nation oecd "paris club" and by. the imp is therefore of crucial significance. their failure .to draw meaningful lessons .from recent developments and to recommend the modernization of the system would. in my view. have serious consequences  only for the united states but the western world as a whole. each member of which greatly. depends for its continued growth on the stimulative effects of this system. what is the administration doing to cope with this problem. it is continuing the export expansion program. the tourist promotion program. and the effort to reduce federal expenditures abroadparticularly military expendituresand tying u.s. ecoic assistance to u.s. exports. initiated under the eisenhower administration. the federal reserve increased the rediscount rate from 3 to 31/2 percent to stem shortterm -capital outflows and the muchvaunted "interest equalization tax" was introduced to reduce longterm capital outflows. in addition. the treasury devised a number of highly imaginative ad hoc measures. for example. to sell convertible mediumterm treasury bonds abroad deinated in foreign currencies. to arrange a $500 million standby credit for the united states from the imp. to arrange for advance repayment of debt owed by foreign countries to the united states. to set up currency swap arrangements with several european central banks to defend the u.s. dollar and other key currencies against speculative raids. and so on. i do  believe we can depend on gimmicks to resolve our own balanceofpayments problem while hopefully awaiting a modification of the system to meet our own longterm needs. i consider the interest equalization tax such a gimmick. the only thing that has made it work to -date is the uncertainty surrounding its enactment by congress. there is little doubt in my mindand i am  alone in this by any meansthat once the tax is passedand i hope that it will be defeatedthe outflow of longterm u.s. capital will once more resume. in this connection. a statement made by secretary dillon in response to my question on the subject during the january 28 hearings of the joint ecoic commitee will be of interest: senator javrrs. do you feel that the almost total cessation of foreign longterm lending was attributable to the expected rate of the tax. or was attributable to the uncertainty as to whether there would or would  be a tax. in short. are we to anticipate that if there is a tax passed. this will result in practical cessation of longterm capital lending in this market. secretary dillon.  i would  think so at all. i think that the effect of the tax has been magnified considerably by the uncertainty. this was something that when the proposal was put forward. that we had  anticipated. because we had  foreseen the situation that has arisenthat the enactment would take so long. but i think that undoubtedly. particularly in the case of canadian borrowing. where they have been uncertain whether there would be an exemption or would . the uncertainty has had a great effect. and i also think in the case of european and japanese borrowers. they still may have some hopes that the bill will  take effect. so i think that there will be some borrowing once the bill is passed. the united states must put into effect measures. the effectiveness of which are without doubt. if we are to convince the world of the sincerity of our oftstated claim that we are doing all we can to find a solution to our balanceofpayment deficit problem. in the field of longterm capital outflows. i recommend the establishment of a capital issues committee. to regulate this outflow on the basis of guidelines laid down by the treasury and the federal reserve system. that would be much wiser in terms of american leadership and would be more reassuring to the world. than the illconceived interest equalization tax proposed by this administration. previous experience has shown that a capital issues committee would be more effective. in addition. i am in favor of the enactment of a tax incentive to stimulate our exports. while our favorable trade balance rose to $4.9 billion in 1963 from $4.3 billion in 1962. due to increased exports and decreased imports. they are rather temporary and can be counted upon to close the gap between our external payments and receipts without further stimulation. a significant proportion of the expansion in our exports in 1963 was accounted for by an increase in agricultural products that benefited from poor harvests in western europe and the soviet union. and an improvement in the competitive position of u.s. manufacturers resulting from an increase in prices in western europe. finally. i wish to stress the urgent need for modernization of the international monetary system. and call upon the united states to bring about and call for an international monetary conference for the purpose of having a far more rational monetary and credit system in the world than exists today. and one that would address itself to the problem of the rigidity of the existing adjustment process as well as to the problem of the adequacy of international reserves over the long term. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from the february 19 issue of the new york times calling for the creation of a capital issues committee and the enactment of a tax incentive for exports. an editorial from the february 13 issue of the wall street journal calling for the defeat of the proposed interest equalization tax. a rather full exposition of the case against this tax made by the chairman of the foreign investment committee of the investment bankers association of america. and a former director of the ibrd and the ifc. mr. andrew n. overby. on december 4. 1963. and finally. a new york times article entitled "international liquidity."
i am grateful to the senator from wisconsin for his helpful remarks. . with capital available for the modernization of british production. with britain part of a new competitive trading arrangement working in close concert with the united states in achieving international monetary reform and in creating the vitally important consultative atlantic assembly. the basis would be provided for an effective u.s. program to bolster great britain. let us  underestimate the current ecoic crisis besetting britain and its repercussions for the united states and the free world. major british financial or ecoic crises could set the world on a critical collision course with depression. we never k how serious this is until we realize that this new battle of britain may  be quite so vivid and dramatic as when britain stood beleaguered as the sole fighting defender of the free world. but it could be just as lethal. it is my conviction that we must take winston churchills advice when. in 1949. he said: never to lose sight of the fact that britain is an absolutely vital necessity to the strength and future of the united states. that statement is as valid today as it was then. and with that incontrovertible fact in mind. we must act promptly and affirmatively . britain has its problems. it is in trouble. we can expect britain to trumpet and advertise it. it would be a great mistake if it did. but those of us who see the problem as clearly as i do must state it to the nation. therefore. i very much urge. withstanding these statistics and the technicalities. that there is yet plenty of time  to let u.s. policy be the private preserve of the federal reserve board or the treasury or other central bankers. because that has limited applicability. there are some things that we can do. let us lay on the table what america can do to help britain today. let us proceed to do it while there is still time to preserve what is certainly in the opinion of many one of the most important allies that we have in the world. one which is filling in a great number of places which. if we had to fill them ourselves would mean either that we would be unable to do so or. if we did. would be infinitely more expensive in men and material to accomplish what is recommended here or what may be recommended. i hope my colleagues in the senate and the executive department will give this matter their most urgent attention. i ask unanimous consent to include various newspaper articles with relation to this subject.
 in a speech i made on august 12 to exempt the united kingdom from the interest equalization tax at least up to the level japan has already been exempted-$100 million per year. in this connection i call the attention of my colleagues to the annual report of the imf issued on august 29 in which it suggests that if the improvement in the united states balance of payments were to go so far as to threaten excessive pressures on other countries in generaland i believe this could occur shortly as far as the united kingdom is concernedone of the measures that could be taken is a relaxation of u.s. voluntary and other controls on the outflow of dollars for lending and investing. exemption of the united kingdom at least up to $100 million annually from the interest equalization tax would represent a very effective and meaningful relaxation of u.s. controls. the british government is presently demonstrating that it is willing to take the necessary deflationary measures to prove to the world that the british people are ready to make the necessary sacrifices to defend the pound. it is only fair that the united states lend every assistance to our british ally to make these sacrifices worthwhile. for the longterm solution of the british balanceofpayments problem i also proposed that a sizable modernization fund be established in the world banki estimated that a $10 billion fund would be requiredto enable it. and countries in similar situations. to deal with its structural ecoic problems. i am pleased to e that in his newly published book. "monetary reform for the world ecoy." former under secretary of the treasury roosa proposes similarly that a multibillion longterm loan be granted to the united kingdom and possibly to japan to correct their chronic shortage of reserves. for the past 3 years i have spent considerable time urging our government to recognize the existence of serious deficiencies in the present international monetary system and to take the lead in its reform which i believe is consistent with our national interest and the welfare of the entire communist world. the report issued by the joint ecoic committee on september 3 fully agrees with the viewpoint i have been expressing with regard to deficiencies which exist in the system and the need for action. the report is entirely correct in saying that. first. the system provides mechanism for assuring that world reserves will increase as needed in the long runworld exports increased by 173 percent between 1948 and 1964. official world reserves increased by only 44 percent. second. the system suffers from the danger of instability. and third. most importantly. the present process of adjustment is unsatisfactory inasmuch as the burden of adjustment falls far more heavily on deficit countries than on countries with persistent balanceofpayments surplus. it is a far more difficult process to determine how the system is to be reformed to meet these deficiencies. and at the same time to obtain agreement of all the industrialized countries of the free world who are members of the imf. there have been a great many proposals put forth by prominent ecoists on both sides of the atlantic during the recent years. including those of posthuma. bernstein. triffin. and zolotas. the governments of britain. france. and the united states have also indicated support for various plans during the past 2 years without having been able to agree on a scheme acceptable to all. to some degree. lack of agreement has been due to the weaknesses of some of these plans. but to a large degree it has been due to political considerations. it is therefore  surprising that the committees report has  endorsed any particular plan but. instead. has laid down 12 guidelines which should govern u.s. action to strengthen the international monetary system. i am particularly pleased that these guidelines reflect several of the key recommendations i have made over the past 3 years. including the preferability of new ways of creating international reserves centered in the imf to any other approach presently advocated. the need for automatic expansion of international reserves as opposed to reliance simply on the balanceofpayments deficits of the united states and the united kingdom. and the necessity for substantial improvements in the adjustment process as part of international monetary reform. i ask unanimous consent that the 12 guidelines for improving the international monetary system as well as the position taken by the miity of the joint ecoic committee on international monetary reform in the 1965 joint ecoic report be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i think the absolute. decisive answer to that question is that it fails to take into account the appropriations process. everything that the senator from indiana has said can be dealt with. and is dealt with. in the appropriations process. so far as the authorization process is concerned. we are losing and on the short end. because we authorize only for 1 year and thereby hamper ourselves in the intelligence. efficiency. and ecoy with which we can plan the foreign aid program and. yes. within which we can get help from others. that is the nub of the argument. everything the senator has said. every safeguard. every fiscal idea with respect to it. fits into what was said by the senator from rhode island .
i wish to point out that george woods. in my judgment. is one of the ablest bankers in the world. as was eugene black. personally. i hold both in very high esteem. as to the soft loans. i point out that when i came to the foreign aid business in the house of representatives. in 1948. we were making grants where there are  soft loans. there is at least. as the senator from illis has said. a 50percent chance of getting some of this money back. and 50 years is  a long time in the life of a nation. there are excellent reasons for the need to shift more development loans from the world bank to the international development association. principally because of the crushing burden on aid recipients of the mounting costs of financing their external indebtedness. in most less developed countries external debt service liabilities have increased at a considerably higher percentage rate than exports of goods and services. gross national products. or savings. we can ige the fact that a considerable part of new gross lending to developing countries today is offset by interest and amortization payments arising from lending in the past. for example. estimates of indias need for foreign exchange on her fourth development plan indicate that about onethird is needed for interest and amortization. according to estimates of ciap. the interamerican committee for the alliance for progress. onethird of the foreign exchange deficit envisaged for latin america is for internal use and twothirds is to be paid back to the creditors. in many cases. increasing debt service difficulties result in the need to postpone and refinance these external debts. argentina. brazil. chile. turkey are examples of these situations. as the senator from missouri ks. i am  given to empty speeches. if the senator would allow me. i should like to submit his speech to the world bank and request a reply. when i receive the reply. i will take the floor. and then the senator will have the same privilege that i have. to controvert the situation as they present it.
we understand each other clearly. as i understand the way it will work. if. at the end of the fiscal year. any states have used less than 121/2 percent. then there will be a reallocation within the 12 1/2percent ceiling of what is available. then if it has to exceed the ceiling. as bound by the $25 million global limitation for the program. the state can exceed that 121/2percent ceiling by any more than the aggregate of the states which that state exceeded.
. first let me thank the senator from oregon for the fine things he had to say about the miity. i am the ranking member on the miity side and am only as effective as my colleagues will allow me to be. i k the senator from oregon will agree with that statement. with due allowance for differences in ideology. and so forth. there has been a strong effort to accommodate  just my view but the views of my colleagues. and it has resulted in the miity trying to meet the views of the majority where it can. specifically with respect to the bill. i approve of it. it is a meritorious bill. it is required to meet the growing national need for expertise in international affairs. a greater number of students. teachers. businessmen. professional people. and government officials must be well prepared to deal with the growing challenges and opportunities in the international field. we must be prepared to deal with the problems of foreign policy in every area of our productivity and activity in world affairs. the increasing responsibilities inherent in the united states. as the single most powerful nation and in its free world leadership and our activities as partners and members of regional organizations. including the united nations and other organizations in almost every field. require a massive educational effort to improve the quality and expand the scope of international affairs studies in this country. i am pleased with the bill before us. i introduced s. 2037 in may of last year. and i sought ardently to get action on it. however. the department of health. education. and welfare. while it supported it. indicated it was the intention of the administration to seek a comprehensive international education program in 1966. of which. the department assured me. my proposals would be a part. this has come true. and i am deeply gratified. if the senator from oregon had  come up with the present formulation of the program as  set forth in h.r. 14643. which he has described so very well to the senate. we would  be here at all with this bill. it was only because he and his committee came up with this formulation. to which he has referred. that it has come before us.
. the reason for the importance of this is that we have been under sharp international criticism and attack for the imbalance in our international payments. which has been persistent over the last five to six years or more because of the tremendous responsibility which we are carrying abroad. withstanding a rather -heavy export surplus which is a tribute to the ecoy of our production and the efficiency of the united states. pressure has been brought on the united states by european central banks to bring its balance .of payments under control. with the implied threat in the background that otherwise there would be a run on gold which would make the american ecoy vulnerable. i have contended for several years that the united states is again being stretched out and racked on a "cross of gold." that the dollar is better than gold. because the dollar buys food and products that people use. and gold only fills ones teeth or is worn on ones wrist as an ornament. it is tremendously heartening and perhaps as important an event as has taken place in the world that this concept is  having the support of major banks. we also have certain statements by the secretary of the treasury implying that the official position of the united states on this momentous subject is being reconsidered. with prospects for a higher u.s. balanceofpayments deficit in 196 than in 1966. diminishing u.s. gold reserves and a stalemate in international monetary reform. the united states is facing basically two alternatives: first. impose further controls. or second. take stepsprincipally stop buying and selling goldto convince the world that it is the ecoic strength of the u.s. ecoy and  gold that makes the dollar a key reserve currency. the first alternativemore controlsmust be emphatically rejected. these controls--the interest equalization tax and the socalled "voluntary" restrictions on bank loans and overseas investmentdid  eliminate the balanceofpayments deficit. because the war in vietnam and our worldwide responsibilities required increased overseas expeidtures. the continuation of these controls will have only one predictable effect: declining returns on u.s. investment abroadanda lessbilng role for the *uited states as world banker. . the great value of the second alternative is that it shifts the initiativei on international monetary reform from europe to the united states. the argument on international monetary reform today has been fought on false groundscan the united states bring its balance .of payments under control or can it . theimposition of coritrolsover our international financial transactions to deal with a deficit equal to less than onehalf of 1 percent of our gnp has never made sense. the real issue is the ability of the united states to -back the dollar by the strength of its ecoy and by sound fiscal and monetary policies. the $750 billion u.s. ecoy--equal to europes total output and more than half of the production of the industrialized worldoffers plenty of security for the dollar. our international assets total $125 billion while our international liabilities total $62 billion as of the end of 1966. our exports will reach over $30 billion this yeargreater than that of any other single countrys--against imports of about $23 to $24 billion. while we have had inflation throughout our postwar history. the purchasing power of the dollar has diminished less than that of most major currencies. the fact that two of the largest u.s. banksthe chase manhattan bank and the bank of americahave  openly adopted the position that the united states should consider stopping the buying and selling of gold is therefore of the greatest importance. it will have a major impact on the attitude of our own treasury department and on the central banks of western europe. the two new york banks have performed an important public service at a time when the gold question is becoming an issue that both the congress and the treasury may have to act upon. with little exception. debate on gold has been on the sterile side in the congress and in the financial community. i hope that henceforth this will  be the case. within the next three years. at the latest. congress will be confronted with the problem that we will have run out of "free gold"-that is the gold available to meet the offshore demands over and above what is requird by law to be set aside as backing for our federal reserve es. two years ago the congress enacted a law to remove the gold backing behind federal reserve deposit liabilities and thereby freed several billion in gold for international purposes. today .we have only about $3 billion in "free gold" remaining. the time has come. in my opinion. to consider removing the remaining domestic tie between gold and the dollar by repealing the gold reserve requirement for federal reserve es. this act would free aher $10 billion in gold and would give us a total of $13 billion to meet any conceivable demand from foreign financial institutions for our gold. such an action would demonstrate our confidence to the world that both governrments and private users will continue to use the dollar as an international currency withor without gold. and should this action be coupled with a decision by our treasury to. buy or sell gold only if it desires to. we will be in an excellent .negotiating. iosition to press forward with establishing a more uptodate international monetary system." * i am confident that the world continues to desire our goods. our khow. our machines. and the dollars necessary to acquire them. the time has come to remove the american. dollar from. the "cross of gold." and i am pleased to e that leading. members of our financial .community. have taken the initiative to accomplish this. i ask unanimous consent that various newspaper articles .relating to the statement by these two banks. the chase manhattan .bank and the bank of america. may be made a part of my remarks.
i k the senator would like that. but that is  the way the senate believes. and the senator from new york is appealing for the vote of the majority of the senate. so i say in order to carry out the scheme of the foreign aid bill. to bring about the maximum participation of private enterprise. thereby relieving the public purse. i urge the senate to follow out that scheme by voting for the amendment. finally. i should like to deal with the argument about business risks. there is plenty of willingness to take business risks in this country. there is plenty of unwillingness to take business risks in the developing countries. to compare the two is like comparing peaches to eggs. everyone ks the developing countries have deep problems and risks which are  present in this country. problems involving expropriation. insurrection. war. unconvertibility. conditions which make impossible the success of any business. matter how run. restrictions on who may or who may  be employed. all kinds of taxes and other disabling restrictions within the countries. due to primitive ecoies. chauvinistic nationalism. and dozens of other reasons. our effort is to endeavor to encourage private business to go into the developing areas and make these investments because it is conducive to the american will. it is  merely a question of shouldering the risks of such investments. but  to do so would be inimical to the interests of our country. finally. let me say that about $300 million worth of investments have been made by the use of the extended risk guarantee. and in the process we have made money. we have  lost money. it has  been a burden on the treasury. we have made about $43 million in the process. if we can see our own selfinterest egh to make this program feasible. then we are indeed blind and impractical. i do  think we are. i think the senates vote yesterday showed that we are . it is for those reasons that i hope very much the senate will approve the amendment. as completely consistent with the senates view a majority of the foreign relations committee. i hasten to add. the chairman of the committee said the vote in committee was 7 to 6. i do  k what the vote was on this proposal. or even if it was put to a vote. but i point out that the foreign relations committee is by means a moith on this view. and the senate takes a different view. and because it takes a different view. i considered it my duty. with the support of the miity leader. to put forth a proposal of minimal support for implementing the will of the senate as it already has decided it wishes to do with respect to the guarantee program. this is essentially a vital part of that particular project.  that other senators desire to speak upon the amendment--and apparently there are ei should like to suggest to the senator from oregon that we again have a quorum call to advise senators that we are ready to vote. unless some senator wishes to speakand there is time. but if senator wishes to speak
i thank the senator. the president is right in exhorting the american people against unnecessary travel abroad as a temporary sacrifice. but i do  believe we should prohibit it through statute or prohibit it in an indiscriminate fashion. with the bookkeepers. the teachers. and the college students. who can afford it. being submitted to a tax which will keep them at home. but with wealthy people. to whom it will mean hing. paying a tax and going abroad. with all the exceptions we will have to this policy. i doubt that the president needs more than the voluntary restraint of patriotic americans. provided we get on the ball about bringing tourists to this country. the greatest tourist attraction in the world. for the long term. the administration must come to grips with the necessity of taking drastic steps on the question of gold. by starting talks in the international monetary fund going even beyond the special drawing rights. and seeking the creation of an international central bank with the right to create reserves as needed by the international ecoy. the international role of gold should be carefully reexamined. particularly the unique u.s. commitment to guarantee the price of gold at $35 an ouncewhich. i emphasize. is a unilateral u.s. commitment.  rooted in law at all.  with the international monetary fund or anybody else. that is just our idea of how best to run the worlds monetary affairs insofar as we can affect them. with the diminishing world supply of gold. its usefulness as a reserve has declined and should therefore be gradually eliminated. so. i deeply regret that the president made mention of his proposed trade bill or called for the reaffirmation of this countrys continued adherence to trade liberalization. coupled with the favorable atmosphere created by the january 1 balanceofpayments message. protectionist forces have received more encouragement than they deserve. or that the country can afford. in short. while the measures taken overnight on a completely emergency basis must be permitted to stand momentarilybecause that is the only thing the administration can doit is far from any solution. and i hope very much that both congress and the president will  show the long sight and the patriotism demanded of a nation which has 50 percent of all the industrial production in the world and which can very readily depend upon the dollar as the fortress of the whole world financially. . i again express to senator ervin my great appreciation for his allowing me to proceed.
among the items which are included in this type of approach are military purchases in europewhich. incidentally. are listed in the budget at more than $2 billion. the supersonic transport. which could be in for well over $200 million. the civilian space program. for $400 million. and various aspects of the foreign aid program.  ought to cut many of these items. but nevertheless these are items which are available. and which represent a measurable field in which the $6 billion in cuts may be effected.
. i agree with the senator. i would like to make two additional points. first. in ida we get the benefit of the collective judgment of an international lending agency. this is extremely important. ida utilizes highly qualified survey teams to evaluate the soundness of loan applications. as a consequence. we benefit from an objective appraisal of specific. definite development projects. also. we avoid the diplomatic headache of a country turning to us and saying that we are  doing egh for it. that we are dragging it down. those are the very things. as i have pointed out. which we were accused of engendering in the foreign aid program on the floor of the senate. history will record that a great debt is owed the senator from oklahoma for what he has done in this respect. yet when we show aher roadand it is aher roadwe are told that we must abandon it. too. i can understand it.
 yet. when i have finished my thought the vote is going to be juxtaposed to the vote just taken by which. just like that. we punched in $90 million for military operations in cambodia. and we lay this cut of 60 percentthat is what they are cutting. they are cutting the heart completely out of the development loan fund. and we will find out in a minute who is getting it. some of these bloated rich are getting it. we will find out who they are. i have sat for 22 years and heard about greek drivers of hearses in tuxedos as a reason why we should  engage in a foreign aid program. and lots of other things of the same sizethe sewage problems in arkansas or some other place. and the narcotics problem and other unbelievably towering problems in new york. yet. when the votes are counted for foreign aid. they come through every time. why. because the american people have more sense than to believe that they can live in a world where they are relatively well offthat is all you can sayand most of the rest of the world is on its knees. yet we are going to be the great moralists. we are  going to add to the burdens of the taxpayers of the united states by an additional $160 million here. when we are already spending a budget of over $220 billion. and spending. of that. over $70 billion for war. it is absolutely unbelievable. this $70 billion represents the bloated rich and if we allow the gap between the have and have nations to widen. this gross figure may double
. this section requires the agency for international development. the department of defense. and certain other agencies specifically to ify the appropriations committee 15 days in advance of the obligation of funds for all projects. activities. programs or other operations. the conference report on section 113 of public law 9411 and the appropriations committee report state that this ification requirement is met by inclusion of any such project or activities in the detailed congressional presentation submitted annually to the congress. the report accompanying the cr. however. indicates that the senate appropriations committee is  satisfied with this form of ification during the cr period. and expects individual. duplicatory ifications for each new project or activity. matter how small. funded during the cr. in fairness to the agency a few points regarding section 113 shall be voted. first. section 113 of public law 9411 appears to require ification only. and second. section 113 does  appear to require approval by the committee before a project or activity may be implemented. the legislative history on these points seems clear. i am advised that last march. when the committee reported out the regular foreign aid appropriation bill. it contained an express approval requirement. under section 113. but. that requirement was stricken from the bill on a point of order.  the appropriations committee has filed a report that says. in essence. that ification through congressional presentation documents is  sufficient. and that separateand duplicatorydocuments must be submitted for committee consideration and. presumably. its approval. i raise the question because obviously the plain meaning of a statute can be altered by a subsequent committee report as to what type of ification the subcommittee on foreign operations expects to receive under section the congress enacted section 113 last year i understand with the assurance of the committee on appropriations that including projects or activities in the congressional presentation documents satisfied the requirements of that section. seepage 46 of senate report 9439. if section 113 is to be amended this should be done by the legislative route. i hope that the affected agencies will recognize that the legal requirements for ification remain those which are contained in last years conference report on public law 9411. reason is advanced why the foreign operations subcommittee requires two duplicatory ifications before the agencies affected can proceed with projects or activities under the cr. the subcommittee has had i understand at least a month. and in most cases over 8 months. to review the budget proposals of these agencies. . finally. the report language chooses only a handfull of agencies to submit duplicatory information to the congress and wait 15 days before proceeding with projects or activities under the cr. if this requirement is to be applied at all. why should it  apply to all agencies and departments operating under the cr. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of section 113 of the law. the statement of managers on the section in the 1975 appropriation bill and the floor discussion on the point be included in the record.
i wish to emphasize the importance that is attached to this amendment by virtue of the finding of the commission on human rights of the organization of american states and to extend my appreciation to the members of that commission. who even though within the country which they were so vigorously condemning just in rhetoric. but in individual proof of individual casescaused that publication to be made. king as we do the ways of governments and the ways of men. the publication of that report is probably as effective a single thing as could be done to end this reign of terror which seems to be continuing in chile. while we would seem. by allowing any ecoic aid to move to chile. superficially to be aiding rather than fighting against this dread situation. the fact is that our struggle is  with the chilean people. who certainly have been put upon egh already. but with the regime which is in power in chile. i join with my colleagues in believing that this is a very constructive way in which to move in this area. but i emphasize the tremendous debt of gratitude we owe to the members of that human rights commission of the oas. which took the bit in its teeth and. though the meeting was right in santiago. did what had to be done.
. the thing that we can do which will best express our deep feeling of sympathy and understanding and our debt of gratitude to these men who have served our country so ly is to exert every effort of which our prestige. influence. and authority is capable to bring an end to the anarchy which has brought about this terrible tragedy in leba and hope that it may  be repeated anywhere else. i k that the chairman of our committee on foreign relations and the members of the committee join together in dedicating themselves to this purpose. we assure the senate that anything that we can do which will forward that purpose will be done with a diligence and patriotism and an indefatigable sense of duty comparable to the heroism which has been displayed by these american foreign service officers.
 of the united states or the secretary of state says something. that is it. it is often very embarrassing for us to climb down. we take many precautions to surround his statements with warnings. with caveats. as the lawyers say. but we still do have real power. and the executive department finds it difficult to deal as frankly. as decisively. and perhaps as experimentally with matters as we can here. so i today will do what i can to encourage my colleagues to engage in this debate. because it is probably a most portentous debate in terms of the future peace of the world and in terms of the social structure of the world upon which we depend so very heavily for our own freedom. in 1974 the developing world called for the establishment of a new international ecoic ordernieoin order to increase the flow of real resources to the developing world and to influence the course of policy in international organizations. one result of this call was the establishment. in 1975. of the conference on international ecoic cooperation--ciecto discuss the elements of this new ecoic order. the week before last i was a member of the u.s. delegation. with secretary of state vande. under secretary of state cooper. under secretary of the treasury solomon. senator ribicoff. and congressman bingham to the ciec meeting in paris. the congressional members will report on this trip shortly. but the events in paris have been a culmination of experiences for me which since 1974 have led me to some disturbing conclusions i wish to share with my colleagues today. for i want to sound a e of alarm with regard to the international monetary system. and the strains on that system which threaten the united states and the world with a deeper recession than 1974 or a full scale depression in 197980. to be sure. it is self interest which prompted the call for the new international ecoic order. however. i have concluded that it is in our self interest to take this call seriously. and also to look pragmatically at the state of the international monetary system. which has been in a state of disrepair since the breakdown of the bretton woods arrangement in 1971. and especially since the drastic opec price increases. i submit that if we do  do this. the recession or depression we are likely to experience will be brought about by many of the issues which are important to members of the developing world.
