. the dream of one day finding our nations lakes. streams and estuaries clean and safe for all could  be realized without such legislation and efforts of the committee. this bill is a significant renewal of our commitment to fight water pollution. $19.96 billion over the next 8 years is authorized with $3 billion committed for this fiscal year alone. in its traditional mission. a revision to the sewer construction grants program was agreed to. my own state of connecticut will continue to receive over $29 million a year to construct treatment plants to protect the rivers of connecticut from untreated sewage. creation of construction revolving loan funds will allow funding of treatment plants throughout the country in the future. with the reauthorization of the clean water act. many new features have been incorporated into the program. for example. the estuaries program is established to address the pollution and health threat that is found within our nations estuaries. within connecticut. it has long been recognized that combined sewer overflows and failures to conduct a coordinated effort in studying and cleaning up long island sound has led to a degradation of connecticuts rivers and the sound and increased the risk to the states inhabitants. with the work of senator chafee and others. i feel that a significant step is being made today in focusing efforts on our nations estuaries. other provisions of the act are particularly eworthy. this bill authorizes $400 million for a new. statefederal program to control point source pollutionpolluted ruf from the cities and rural areas of this country. focus on this form of pollution is especially important since it is estimated that half of all water pollution is from these point sources. efforts to cleanup the nations lakes will receive $85 million within this reauthorization. in closing. i would applaud my colleagues efforts in producing this reauthorization. it is my hope that this bill will be rapidly signed into law to demonstrate congressional concerns for the environment of this country.
. although new york state has a welldesigned program for cleaning up public water and air that has been defiled for a century and more. it is plain that industry in new york and other states still has much to do in helping save our environment from contamination. to encourage the kind of massive job required to replace the ugly specter of foul and lifeless water and air. i believe we should provide industry with tax incentives to expedite the job of building antipollution control facilities. with federal. state. and local governments and private enterprise working together the quality of wildlife. recreation. and public health can be emously enhanced.
