i thank the gentleman for his comments. i believe they do have a measure of relevance. particularly if the government of the united arab republic and the president of the united arab republic do  respect the right of freedom of transit in the suez canal and do  respect the six principles adopted unanimously by the security council on october 13. 1956. with regard to free and open transit through the canal and. particularly as the government of the united arab republic directly or indirectly may be taking responsibility for certain of the actions as represented in radio broadcasts. i would also refer to the story in the los angeles times datelined algiers on may 4 which deals with "nasser gets big algiers welcome. ben bella talks of joining united arab republic." the report from algiers by don shan said this: the crowd. reduced by a thunderstorm that delayed the rally an hour. booed lustily when both ben bella and nasser declared israel their common enemy. clearly. any nation that is a member of the u.n. must uphold. in my opinion. the principles of the charter and the principles of the charter do  condone continuing belligerency or continuing in a state of war or apparent state of war. therefore. to the extent that this governmentthe united arab republicdoes  wish to live within the precepts and principles of the charter of the united nations. i believe that is a matter for concern of the congress and the president of the united states. i thank the gentleman.
. i ask unanimous consent that following my remarks. a copy of the pulaski day resolution of the polish american congressdistrict of connecticut be printed in the record. there bein&. objection. the resolution was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: pulassx day resolution hoing today the memory of general pulaski. the great polish patriot and the hero of the american war of independence. we also pay tribute to all those brave men who fought and gave their lives in defense of freedom and liberty. the polish american congress expresses its support to the government of the united states in its effort to win and maintain a just and durable peace. based on the principles of democracy and the universal application of individual human rights. but the new ways of securing world peace and understanding have to be accomplished without appeasement. without weakening americas moral. ecoic and military strength. the pac will firmly combat derogatory misinformation about poles and particularly about the polish americans and foster the development of cultural. social and political activities of americans of polish ancestry. especially their youth. the pac will assist the people of poland to regain the full measure of freedom and independence. which is essential to the development of their political. ecoic aid cultural life based on the traditions of christianity. social progress and justice. the pac supports activities designed to assure the captive peoples of central and eastern europe the free flow of objective information. such as provided by the radio free europe.
. i present for appropriate reference petitions of sundry citizens of springfield and new 592 cong carlisle. ohio. praying for the enactment of senate bill 860. to provide for the common defense in relation to the sale of alcoholic liquors to the members of the land and naval forces of the united states. senate bill 569. to prohibit the transportation in interstate commerce of advertisements of alcoholic beverages. and for other purposes. and senate bill 682. to prohibit the paid advertising of alcoholic beverages by radio in certain circumstances. and for other purposes.
. great decisions are always very simple. a vote for peace or war just means saying aye or nay. the amendment which is before the committee. proposed by the gentleman from mississippi. is a declaration of ecoic war. it says that hereafter we shall sever international ecoic relationships with the soviet or her satellites. . that does  cover what happens between the 16 nations whom we are going to aid under this bill and the u. s. s. r. and her satellites. according to this amendment. trade between the 16 western european nations and the soviet and her satellites can be perfectly free. the committee amendment. though. seeks to protect both aspectsany shipments from the united states and any shipments from the 16 nations. insofar as any supplies may be proposed for shipment to the u. s. s. r. and the satellite countries. which jeopardize or affect the national security of the united states. furthermore. the committees amendment says that the administrator is "directed" to refuse delivery. it is very precise on that point. what the committee amendment does is to seek to carry out what should be the intent that warmaking materials and materials of any kind can be shipped which jeopardize our national security. in the language which i worked out myself to try to deal with this difficult subject. it says that any supplies. contrary to the interest of the national security of the united states. may  be shipped.  only directly from the united states. as the gentleman from mississippi provides. but according to the committee amendment. directly or indirectly from the united states. and the 16 western european nations- as well. the committee amendment is designed exactly to serve the purposes which are sought to be served. and the committee amendment should. therefore. pass.
that allied statement on berlin speaks in the traditional terms which we have been carrying on  ever since the end of world war ii. it states: fourpower responsibility for berlin can be changed only by fourpower agreement. and fundamental responsibilities for berlin can only be terminated by a peace settlement with germany as a whole. there is unilateral way to dispose of these responsibilities. that is what the statement says. we have been saying that  for 17 years. the fact is that east berlin is effectively cut off from west berlin by a wall. there is access and communication. the soviet union has unilaterally. outrageously. and flagrantly violated the fourpower agreement. mally. when someone violates an agreement on one side. the other side is free to do anything it chooses to protect itself and longer must respect that agreement. but u.s. policy is that we should respect that agreement. that is what our policy is stated. restated. and restated to be. according to this. the very latest document on policy issued on our part and on the part of the other allied governments. i respectfully submit that that policy is getting to be old hat. more than that. it may be a handicap. in that we would be tied to the fourpower agreement without any freedom of movement whatever. all we have to do is worry about whether the russians will make good any of their threats. the newest threat is that they will hamper communications between east germany and west germany on the autobahn. everyone ks that the very life of west germany and its 2 million people is absolutely dependent upon communication by land. by canal. and by air. therefore today i will confine myself to urging upon our government. together with the other allied governments. consideration of a new policy on berlin. i urge that we consider what we could do to take the initiative ourselves by rencing the fourpower agreement on the ground that it has been outrageously and flagrantly violated by the soviet union. and therefore is longer binding. in other words. we have been pursuing a policy of being bound by an agreement which the other side has nullified. let us  examine the consequences of a policy in which we would say. okay. if you do  want it that way. then we are  bound either. but there are a few things we can do about the situation. too. which may  be very much to your liking. by way of explanation of what could be done. i myself have written an article for the reporter magazine. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the article be printed at this point in my remarks.
. marion harper. jr.. chairman of the interpublic group of companies. inc.. a leading exponent of advertising in communication in the united states. at yesterdays sixth annual midwinter conference on advertising and government relations. delivered what i consider to be an extraordinary speech on the question of the war on poverty. he made a few very practical suggestions. one was that the communications media of the country be used to inspire interest among the poor. so that they might feel that a greater interest is being shown in them. i hope the government will do that. he also suggested that some form of incentive system be developed for effort in behalf of a familys own progress. i ask unanimous consent that a few excerpts from his speech may be made a part of the record. the senator from rhode island has inserted the whole speech in the record. but i should like to call special attention of the senate to these particular matters.
