s kennedy and johnson has joined republican govers who have. over a period of years. proposed the reallocation of revenue resources so that communities and states would be better prepared to meet their responsibilities. this proposal needs further public discussion. a more equitable sharing of tax revenues. with strings attached. can have a profound impact on the future of our cities. i would  like to take that second look i promised at the proposed department of housing and urban development. to understand why a mere change in the status of hhfa would  do the job. lets look at the relationships of some federal programs today. take the federal bureau of roads. under the commerce department. and the hhfa. for example. under the proposed department. activities of the bureau of public roads would  be included. highway planners. as you all k. find their concern is often exclusively with traffic needs. on the other hand. local housing agencies have as their objective the avoidance of new slums and the replacement of existing ones. clash for space. as each seeks to accomplish its own task. is often inevitable. the federal government. through two separate agenciesthe bureau of public roads and the hhfa (proposed to change to department status) -provides funds for each. in cooperation with the states and localities. but these objectives can and do clash. and. in some urban places in america. that clash can raise havoc which the dream of a beautiful america. rather than elevating hhfa to cabinet level. we need a referee. a white house office. such as we propose. would be an appropriate umpire. the proposed johnson administration bill creates neither a cabinetlevel department to coordinate the federal programs geared to the needs of the urban communities  a cabinetlevel department to administer the principal programs of the federal government which provide assistance for housing. less than onethird of the federal governments housing activities would be encompassed in the new department. i have already mentioned that the bureau of public roads is  included. it will stay in the department of commerce. water pollution and sewage disposal programs will stay in the department of health. education. and welfare. vocational education funds. social security activities. welfare activities. disposal of surplus federal properties to schools and hospitals and other municipal entities. hillburton funds. activities designed to promote public health. all will remain right where they are . and the more than 40 separate programs of financial aid for urban development involve some 13 departments and agencies. we can divide responsibility and expect sound decisions for the most efficient use of the taxpayers dollars in meeting overall community needs. this is precisely why i favor the establishment of an office of community development in the white house. your efforts to overcome the problems of air and water pollution. crime. education. public health. and others deserve equitable assistance. and we are determined to provide that assistance. this republican proposal. if adopted. would  discourage local and state initiative or direct the development of appropriate solutions. but would provide state and local officials with a coordinating point of reference for all federal programs. this coordination can be achieved with efficiency and ecoy. if we establish an office of community development. if the congress will improve its handling of metropolitan affairs. if the executive branch will develop metropolitan service agencies in the field. and if steps can be taken to share federal tax revenues with state and local governmentsif these four proposals can be adopted. we will have taken the first steps toward strengthening our metropolitan centers and improving the relations between these centers and the federal government. both executive and legislative. but the very first step is to build and strengthen the liaison between the city officials and the members of congress. this is the primary reason for the creation of the house republican task force on urbansuburban affairs. too often we find that the congress tells the cities what they need without first asking a true cross section of city leaders. this method of operation must  be allowed to continue. the cities must tell the congress what federal programs the cities properly need and want before the congress takes action. the challenge of our great metropolitan growth is a challenge for every american. it is a challenge which must be met with boldness and determination to recognize a problem and to get at the heart of that problem. but the first responsibility is with the local and state governments. it must be with those who k the problems best. the congress hopes to work more closely with you in helping to meet that responsibility.
let me make my statement  and then at the appropriate time i will make the appropriate motion. when this appropriations bill was before us the first time. we adopted language prohibiting the use of limousines by anyone in the agencies covered other than the secretary of housing and urban development and prohibiting the secretary from using a limousine to and from his residence. the conferees were unable to agree on this prohibition and. accordingly. the conference report contained this disagreement. the house has already voted on the appropriations bill. approving the conference report and rejecting this prohibition. following its action. the house discharged its conferees. the issue we  face is whether we are going to insist on this prohibition or whether we are going to pass an appropriations bill for hud. space. science and veterans. if we insist on this amendment. the effect will be to delay passage of these agencies fiscal year 1974 appropriations until even later in the fiscal year. even after this delay. there is assurance that we shall ultimately prevail. there are a number of reasons why the house may insist upon its own position. thus. we may find that we have delayed passage of this bill only to face this same situation several weeks from . we are all aware of the misuse of limousines by various government officials. the senator from wisconsin has done an outstanding job in bringing these abuses to the attention of congress and the public. i have supported the senator on this issue as a member of the subcommittee on hud. space. science. and veterans. and i believe that we are right. i have also discussed this matter as recently as this morning with the chairman of the appropriations committee. who is seriously considering the appointment of an ad hoc committee to study the use of limousines by agencies and departments of the government. second. the general accounting office is presently conducting an investigation. at the request of the distinguished senator from th carolina . into the use and misuse of .imousines throughout the government and is expected to issue a report shortly. the restriction in the bill we are considering today applies to only one group of agencies.  the entire government. and to only one cabinet officer out of 12. by waiting until the reports of the ad hoc committee. which i believe the chairman of the appropriations committee will appoint. and the comptroller general are available on this subject. we can insure that a sound and consistent policy with respect to the use of limousines is developed for all government agencies. i think we have made our point on the limousine issue. we have served ice on those who have misused government limousines. we have begun to develop guidelines on the use of limousines which can apply throughout the government. again. i want to commend the distinguished senator from wisconsin for his leadership in this effort. to press our point further at this time. until we have the report of the ad hoc committee. which i trust will be appointed by the chairman of the appropriations committee. and the gao report. would only invite considerable delay in the passage of this important bill. so. . at the proper time. i intend to move that the senate recede on amendments . 44 and 45.
but it is  the true picture. it is 1978. 1979. and all the way down the road to 2017. that is the point i am trying to make. i thought it was the existence of the numbers which really caused the senator to vote as he did in committee. that is why i was asking the senator. rather than the distinguished senator from maine. who did oppose cutting the housing budget in committee. but he tells me his vote was on the basis that he believed that the programs were justifiable. whereas senator chiles did  believe so.
