. the purpose of the fountain amendment. to which i referred earlier. was to prohibit the secretary of health. education. and welfare from deferring action upon an application for federal funds on the basis of an alleged violation of title vi without resort to the cumbersome and timeconsuming funds termination process set forth in that title. this amendment was opposed by the secretary. by the commissioner of education. by the league of women voters. by the aflcio. by the national leadership conference. the present amendment will be even more damaging to the cause of quality education for all of the nations people. it will be opposed by all who believe that the federal government must put its money where the principles and guarantees of the constitution and of federal laws are respected. by its action upon this amefhdment. the senate will demonstrate whether it is serious in its commitment. to the protection of the constitutional rights and liberties of all citizens. the public awaits the answer. i urge my colleagues to reject such an amendment if it is called up on the floor.
. i submit this is a deeply disturbing situation. the armed services of the united states have been largely desegregated. but the children of the members of the armed forces of the united states stationed in alabama are forced to attend segregated schools built and supported by the government of the united states of america. but how much worse will the situation inevitably be if we do  insist upon some measure of constitutional rights in the measure  pending. we have already been told explicitly by the secretary of health. education. and welfare that neither he  the commissioner of education has any authority. under the bill as it  stands. to withhold funds from any state because of segregation in schools within that state. many of us do  happen to agree with that legal opinion. but there it is. and we can ige that it means millions of taxpayers might be forced to help pay for the perpetuation of an injustice and a wrong which  only violates their own deepest convictions. but defies the constitution itself. the least we can do is to provide a means by which an unconstitutional grant of funds can be challenged in the courts. by giving judicial standing to a taxpayers suit. we will make possible judicial review of any allocation of federal funds to states violating constitutional principles. perhaps there is some question about this means. but it seems to me it is incumbent upon the senate. if it be unwilling. as it demonstrated yesterday. affirmatively to state that there is an obligation on the part of the secretary of health. education. and welfare or the commissioner of education to follow the constitution in the distribution of funds. to indicate that the very least it should do is take every possible opportunity to bring the question before the courts for a decision by the courts on the constitutional question. i suggest there may be cases in which people taking a very legalistic view of the situation may be inclined  to take that view in other circumstances.  to provide this minimum protection would be. i believe. morally reprehensible. for surely both negro and white alike are entitled to some assurance that this bill will  be utilized to delay indefinitely the integration of public schools. surely. we can. in good conscience. appear to acquiesce in a view which might put the federal government in the role of abetting defiance of the law of the land. for too long congress has delayed affirmative action to secure the constitutional rights of all citizens. let us  . by further inaction. risk making the federal government an actual partner in the flagrant denial of a basic right whose realization goes to the heart of our whole way of life. as i said in my colloquy with the distinguished senator from new york. the prime sponsor of the amendment. i do  fear that a majority of this body or the other body are unwilling to vote for the bill unless they are "bought" by an agreement to deny the constitutional right of all americans.
