. i am pleased to commend the distinguished junior senator from oregon for his timely and informative remarks concerning the crisis confronting the timber industry in the state of oregon and in the western part of our nation. i sincerely trust that we in the senate will join with senator hatfield in requesting an early meeting of united states and japanese governments and industry officials to review all aspects of the log export issue with a view to uniting the effort needed for remedial action. senator hatfield is to be congratulated for bringing this important matter to the attention of the senate.
 of the united. states to the gover of michigan. i. want to read that telegram again.at this time. and then i want to set the record straight. the telegram reads: dear gover: i read your telegram of the 10ththat is the 10th of this monthwith a great deal of interest and.i sincerely hope that the congress will give me the authority to meet situations such as .the one to which you call attention. * the clear implication of that is that the situation confronting the good people ofmichigan and the people of new eng-" land and minnesota and th carolina: and the other people who have presented their cases before the house committeeon interstate and foreign commerce is that the responsibility for those shortages rests on this congress. what is the record. on ember 26. the secretary of commerce testifying before the house committee on banking and currency in his main statement on page. 129 said this: we have submitted to you detailed information as to the supply. demand. and production situation in the major categories of commodities  under individual licensing controls. you will e that among the goods still subject to export restrictions are essential foods. including meat products. fats. oils. butter. wheat and other essential grains and preparations. seeds. fertilizer. soap. lumber and lumber products. coal. and petroleum. further in his testimony the chairman asked him for detailed information as to the exports of petroleum from this country in this last year. that is contained at page 151 of the committee hearings.
i thank the gentleman from tennessee. . i am opposed to this bill. i think it is much bigger and more important than we are being led to believe. although some of the echoes of this debate sound like an oldfashioned tariff debate before we tried taking tariffmaking out of politics. this debate. on the question of protectionism versus reciprocal trade has  died down as yet. it seems to me we have omitted two very important points in the debate so far. the first is where does the consumer get off. the second is. do we export as well as import. although there are some 400.000 or 500.000 people in the united states working in the industries which are seriously affected by imports. but there are several million working in the industrial and farm areas seriously dependent on exports. including the shipping business. let us  forget the storm that was raised in the case of the cheese amendment which slid through here so easily and with less discussion. yet which rocked world trade. this may very well do the same thing. one other thing with respect to this matter. and that is whether you call this bill reclassification to a wood category from a paper category and i do  think there is much to that as i think i can explain in a minute. the fact is that this bill will double the tariff and it will. i believe. make the theastern seaboard. a district which i represent. subject to possibly what would be in effect controlled market prices. because 70 percent of the output of hardboard is controlled. i am informed. by one corporationand that hardboard has higher shipping costs to my part of the country where imports from abroad. shipping costs being less. can therefore compete. the imports of this material seem extremely small in the production of an industry that has grown substantially in the last few years. masonite and other hardboard producers certainly can be said to be threatened or suffering serious injury from imports. the figures show that output of hardboard has been increasing steadily over the past 3 or 4 years and output will probably be over a billion pounds this year: domestic production of hardboard million pounds 1951 --------------------------687 1952 -------------------------- 870 1953 --------------------------959 1954 (estimated) ---------------- 1.250 first 3 months. 226 million pounds. source: tariff commission. it is impossible for me to believe that an industry which has nearly doubled its production in less than 4 years has anything to fear from imports accounting for less than 31/2 pounds out of every 100 pounds of hardboard consumed in our country. the ways and means committee report mentions five new plants under construction but  yet in production. that. too. sounds like healthy growth.  serious injury. while imports are small in terms of our consumption. they represent between 1 and 2 million badly needed dollars for finland and sweden. who usually have a difficult time as it is paying for the things they buy from us. sweden and finland bought $125 million worth of goods from us last year. i do  think i need to elaborate much here. finland has scrupulously met her debt commitment to us every year in spite of overwhelming fiscal difficulties. we should  make her task harder. both countries are nearneighbors to the soviets. and i hardly think we would be well advised to force them to look increasingly to the east for the markets they need by shutting our own door. there is still more potential harm in this bill. businessman does things to an his best customer. yet the canadians bought nearly $3 billion worth of goods from us last year. more than any other country. and canada maintains import licensing arrangements or currency exchange against our goods. she is by far our best customer. yet we have already placed tight restrictions on imports of such canadian products as wheat. dairy products. oats. rye. and alsike clover seed. and canada still faces the possibility of new restrictions because of claims of threatened injury on other products. any increase in the tariff on canadian hardboard is certainly  going to promote the excellent cooperation which  prevails between our two countries on political. ecoic. and. i believe. military affairs. aher reason i am opposing this bill is because it cuts across our international obligations. we have agreed with the canadians  to increase the hardboard duty. in return. the canadians agreed to maintain lower rates of duty on products of interest to producers of export products all over the united states. obviously. if our word is to mean anything at all in international affairs. we just can run out on our international commitments any time we see fit. the hardboard people could take their case to the tariff commission and let that agency make a determination under the escape clause of our agreement with canada to see if they need relief. the fact that they have  done so suggests to me that their case might  stand up in that "court." it seems to me that when you take a good look at the facts it is  a question of reclassification but of doubling the tariff. this item was  classified administratively. we are chemists or technicians here and certainly can supplant an administrative finding on a technical question. yet one of the arguments used as to why this is a wood product is that it is being used in place of wood. the same argument could be made of paper. for cardboard cartons and packaging so much of which. is being used in place of wood packaging. the bill is seeking to do through congress what should be done through an administrative agency. and to me it just does  make sense. and i do  think it is going to make sense to anybody. the only result will be that this product will be subject to higher prices where even the small imports can  compete by cutting off this item of import. we are cutting it off by doubling the tariff. and. as i say. you can get away from that by the words of reclassification. we all k the bill would  be here reclassifying unless it materially raised the tariff. the bill doubles the tariff. and even puts that tariff beyond the reach of any reciprocal trade negotiations. it was said a minute ago that other countries have embargoes on products from other parts of the world. but we apparently do  want to ship any watches or watch movements to switzerland.
