. i am today offering a resolution expressing it as the sense of the house of representatives "that the united states express in the united nations and in every other way open to it the indignation of its people against the religious persecutions in the soviet union and in the communist satellite states. its sympathy with the tragic victims of these religious persecutions and its determination that international law and human rights be preserved in the world." a good many resolutions have been * introduced protesting the calculated policy of the soviet union and its communist administrations in the satellite countries to persecute people for their religious beliefs culminating in the antisemitic persecutions currently in progress which are so reminiscent of the hitler era in germany. it must be ed that in nazi germany these persecutions heralded armed aggression against the whole free world. the foreign relations committee of the other body has already acted on a resolutionsenate resolution 84respecting treatment of miity groups by the soviet union and its satellites. i believe that the foreign affairs committee will soon act on such a resolution and hope very much that it will receive early consideration in the house. i believe the greatest service is rendered by those who protest against these religious persecutions behind the iron curtain as they sound the tocsin for the whole free world against the dangers to freedom everywhere by the situation which these persecutions reflect rather than confining themselves alone to the fight against the particular persecution involved against a particular faith. in 1906 the congress by joint resolution expressed its "hearty sympathy with the hebrews in russia." then the subject of czarist pogroms. it is in our lest tradition to do the same thing . the weight of moral condemnation by the congress representing the american people directed against communist religious persecutions is of vital importance in the free world. that it counts is evidenced by the fact that after the reaction against soviet antisemitism set in. the soviet union felt it had to manufacture a story (which appeared in izvestia) accusing me and aher member of this house. the gentleman from new york . of participating in some plot in israel respecting the soviet union. certainly one in the free world will believe this and the communists k it. but an effort must be made by them. apparently. to try to discredit within the communist countries themselves those who protest articulately against religious persecutions behind the iron curtain. the moral indictment by the people of the united states through a resolution adopted by its house of representatives can help greatly in the struggle against communism within the free world and in the communist world.
 to make available a program of u.s. technical assistance to mexico including transporthelicopters and aircraftand communications equipment on a lendlease basis for the purpose of attacking the problem of illicit trafficking in drugs across the united statesmexican border. as to a joint united statesmexican program against traffic in marihuana. i wish to make it clear that i do  thereby claim any wisdom. fairness. and efficacy in the current laws on marihuana. i am all for finding out scientifically as soon as possible about marihuana and its effects. concerning which there is so much controversy. i believe until we do find out more about marihuana. the proper course of action is to work to get the oppressive laws on penalties and prosecution reformed. but  in the meantime to allow the country to be inundated with marihuana because we can dam up the flood of it from mexico. i hope the administration will take my suggestions seriously on this subject.
