. cicero once wrote that "a man of courage is also full of faith." so it was with theodore mckeldin. whose recent passing has taken from the american scene a man of fearless integrity and unwavering faithqualities which gave to his public and private life alike a characteristic courage. it was my privilege to count him as a personal friend of many years standing. and the memory of that friendship will continue to be a source of inspiration. theodore mckeldins career has been ed and praised across the land since his death in baltimore last month at the age of 73. as mayor of that city and as gover of maryland he served the people of his city and state faithfully and well for nearly two decades. and these two decades were turbulent times for our nation. gover mckeldin was one who championed the cause of civil rights for all americans long before it became a popular national issue. he moved boldly and vigorously. in the face of bitter resentment from some. to implement the promise of american democracy for equal opportunity and equal rights. he believed passionately in human dignity and he acted upon that belief. imbued with the vision to see irhat needed to be done. he was also gifted with the courage to do it. his generosity of spirit and personal warmth were readily communicated to men and women from every social and ethnic background. his many services to baltimore and to maryland constitute lasting benefits which will be remembered as an important part of his legacy. but. in the long run. his memory will be especially hoed for his independent spirit. his dedication to justice for all people. and his discernment of the signs of the times. he recognized that the time had come for america to fulfill the letter and the spirit of the constitution and in so doing to further the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of god. i salute his idealism. his courage. and his character. and to his loved oneshis widow. his children. and his grandchildreni extend my deepest sympathy. may they take comfort in the timeless assurance of the book of proverbs: the path of the just is as the shining light. that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.
