. this is a very long overdue reform in an area which has filled americas heart with concern for many years. it will be remembered that the great steinbeck book. "grapes of wrath." first brought our attention to the serious social problem and the grave amount of social injustice existing in this field. since then may efforts have been made to do something about it. national citizens committees and many welfare organizations testified before the subcommittee and have taken an interest. it is a matter of tremendous personal gratification to me that at last we are before the senate with bills which i hope very much will be passed today. making some elementary effort to bring relief in this very material and important field of working people at one of the lowest ecoic levels of which we k in this country. as it affects those who work hard. finally. this is work which is constructive and essential in the national interest. farm productivity is vital to us. and many areas are heavily dependent upon the availability of this type of labor.
. i wish to address a few questions to the chairman of the finance committee. and then i would like to make a few remarks about this conference report. i direct the attention of the chairman to page 31 of the report. dealing with savings provisions regarding certain expenditures for social services. which relates to this much discussed and debated $2.5 billion ceiling. i would like to ask the chairman. in addition to that hold harmless clause what we may expect regarding the other stevens amendmentwhich deals with a redistribution of the amounts allotted to various stateswhich is  contained in the h.r. 1 conference bill. but has been included by the senator from alaska as an amendment to the kind of omnibus bill carrying various tax amendments. h.r. 7577. i point out to the chairman that this is a very serious matter because. while the thought was that we were going to put a limit on states which allegedly over use this social services opportunity. though i shall make some remarks which would sharply contest that. the fact is that a good deal of the formula which has  been adopted is going to feed the same money to states which have  even asked for it. even under earlier estimates. hence there is bound to be some kind of a surplus for redistribution. which states endeavoring to keep down the galloping welfare rollswhich will cost the united states an additional $1.7 billion this yearmay be able to use effectively. so i ask the chairman if we may k his thoughts on this question of reallocation of a part of that ceiling money which may  be used at all in the new formula which has  been adopted.
