. the construction grants program authorized by the clean water act specifically provides financial assistance to municipalities in the planning. design and construction of publicly owned treatment works. this assistance is based on a matching formula under which the federal government has statutorily provided 75 percent of eligible costs. with local government providing the remaining ahare. under this program. epa has awared approximately $300 million for treatment facilities in the commonwealth since 1972. despite puerto ricos ecoic commitments and projections. soaring energy costs and an unemployment rate of over 20 percent have made it virtually impossible for the commonwealth to match the available federal construction grants dollars as originally anticipated. as a consequence of the serious shortage in local funding. five facilities in which $180 million has been inested are  yet operational and are still under construction. others have been completed. but  await the construction of necessary interceptor sewers to bring municipal wastewater to the plant and outfalls to take the treated effluent away. in addition. some completed facilities are experiencing problems due to their idleness. such as corrosion. structural deterioration. and equipment malfunctions. without a resolution of the funding situation. the effectiveness of these facilities and the value of the sizable federal investment therein are in jeopardy. to complete ongoing construction projects. puerto rico aqueduct and sewer authorityprasaneeds approximatley $60 million through june 30. 1983. it currently has about $30 million. under the very best of circumstances. the government of puerto rico may be able to appropriate $22 million for waste water treatment leaving prasa with an $8 million deficit. such a deficit precludes the initiation of any further construction until fiscal year 1984 at .he earliest. in addition. because of the lack of funds epa has terminated 10 construction projects. which have received $42 million in federal grants. these projects are essential to the health and wellbeing of the people of puerto rico. since. at the present time. almost all of puerto ricos more than 120 treatment plants are in violation of their npdes permits and are contravening water quality standards. prasa is under a federal consent decree to upgrade existing treatment facilities or construct new ones. the amendment passed by the house as part of h.r. 3159 on september 9. 1982. does  address the commonwealths immediate problem. that is. the lack of local funds to complete s0 127415 ongoing construction of the five regional treatment systems for carolina. camuy hatillo. mayaguez. aquadilla. and arecibo. while it would provide them with increased percentages of federal funding share. it does  afford them any means to address the local funding issue. the attached amendment recognizes the extreme problem faced by the commonwealth and the immediate need to complete these muchneeded facilities. the amendment will accomplish the following: first. prevent the loss of approximately $30 million in uligated 1981 federal funds. making it available for an additional year. second. provide a mechanism by which these moneys would be used to finance puerto ricos local share to allow completion of the five existing and uncompleted facilities. third. provide that this local share which is initially financed by the federal government will be repaid with interest under a plan worked out between the epa and the commonwealth of puerto rico. passage of this amendment will effectively relieve the financial crisis  jeopardizing the waste water treatment program in the commonwealth of puerto rico without the appropriation of any additional federal funds. unless we act by september 30 these funds will be lost to the commonwealth. with regard to my other amendment it simply deals with deleting an amendment to the clean water act that was included during consideration of this measure in the house. it would provide for a waiver from certain requirements of the clean water act by the producers of rum in the virgin islands. this is presently before the environmental protection agency for administrative attention and similar legislation which is being stricken is under consideration by the environment and public works committee as an amendment to the clean water act. this is neither the time  the place to take such action and i therefore urge that it be stricken. the amendment to assist puerto rico in coming up with its matching share is  something i relish doing. i feel strongly that each political jurisdiction has a responsibility to develop its own local share. the circumstances in puerto rico are truly extraordinary. this legislation is a onetime fix and will allow puerto rico to complete needed facilities and protect the investment that already exists in these facilities to  be wasted. one final word about the process that we are following to make certain that this amendment is enacted. clearly the areas of h.r. 5139 that are being discussed in this amendment are within the jurisdiction of the committee on environment and public works. but because of the actions in the other body we are placed in this position. we appreciate the efforts of the chairman of the energy and natural resources committee.  of the subcommittee. mr. weicker. in helping us protect our jurisdiction. their cooperation and the efforts of their staffs has been greatly appreciated. obviously. if something occurs in the other body to muddle our committees jurisdiction it is regrettable. but there is  much we can do about it. i would only say that in the future i will strenuously object to any attempts to circumvent our committee in order to amend the clean water act. this amendment with regard to puerto ricos share of the construction grants program is only being accepted because we are up against the deadline of september 30 and the consequences of  acting are worse than acting. however. this is the last time that we will be placed in this position.
s commission door ..recreational facilities for our on americans outdoors completed a growing population. massive study on outdoor recreation my proposal is to create the outdoor and issued a thoughtful. welldocu- american conservation fund. a $1 bilmented report. included inthat report lion per.year permanent fund that will be distributed as follows: 40. percent to •the ..federal government.: 55 percent to state -governments. with half of that going to .local:.governments.and land trusts..-and up. to 5_.percent to a new national endowment - for.. the preservation of open space.. --. state conservation councils will work with the endowment to identify state and local priorities. the endowment is modeled after the national endowment for the arts and is.designed to challenge the private sectorthrough a system of matching . grantsto become more active in conservation programs. of the $80 billion in private funds that were given to various charities last year. only 1 percent went to conservation groups. while 4 percent went to the arts. i am certainly  denigrating the arts. but we should be able to do better than 1 percent for the environment. using 5 percent of the dedicated national fund to help spur private activity in this area would be a very worthwhile use of the money. the 40percent federal share of the national fund will be used to purchase open space and to reduce the $2 to $3 billion backlog of already authorized acquisition projects for national parks. wildlife refuges. wetlands. and other nationally significant resources. it is important that states and local governments contribute a significant portion of the resources for acquisition. under my- proposal. the state and local portion of the fund will be distributed to the states and. for acquisition projects. will require a 50percent match by the state. local governments. and land trusts unless the proposal is to acquire an area deemed to be an area of national significance. in which case the federal grant will be for 75 percent of. the projects cost. other state and local projects. such as those to improve or rehabilitate outdoor recreation facilities. will be eligible for a federal grant of up to 35 percent of the projects total cost. many states and local governments are already spending significant amounts of money on open space. my own state of rhode island has approved several bond issues to acquire land and to purchase development rights to protect farmland. additional proposals for new bond issues are pending right . these resources could be used to meet the requirements that money from the national fund be matched. what are some of the key elements of this new program. first. outdoor recreation would be a strong component of the program. from swimming. boating. and camping to nature trails and crosscountry skiing. opportunities for our families to get away from the pressures of urban and suburban life are important. the concept of open space is just that: these resources must be kept open for the pleasure and enjoyment of all americans. we will have defeat- ed our purpose if these resources are . accessible to all. acquisitions for access to our * beaches. riverg. land mountains will be an imploritiant t of this program. . .. - - . .. second. preservation of resources to . protect our drinking. water as well as to protect our- fish :and wildlife. are equally important. goals. our wetlands. which help purify -our water and which rish wildlife and waterfowl. are being filled and dredged at an . alarming rate. similarly. in some parts of the country. fragile rangeland is disappearing. furthermore. unrestricted development around watersheds causes pollution of our drinking water supplies. we need to halt the destruction of these resources and preserve them for the future. this can be done by acquiring easement in watersheds. wetlands. and other areas. third. in addition to preserving existing open spacewhich is primarily located in rural areasone of our goals should be the creation of new open space in areas where it does nbt  exist. for example. cities might well contribute old and abandoned buildings that have historic significance and are in blighted urban areas. money from the national fund -could be used to demolish them and turn the land into new and inviting parks. playgrounds. and basketball courts. i envision a whole new series of urban parks and greenways. my bill relies on the concept of a dedicated national fund. meaning a fund that can be used for other purposes. there are. of course. abundant precedents for such funds at the federal level. social security and the highway trust fund are two of the bestkn examples. critics might e that congress created the land and water conservation fund back in 1965 for many of the purposes outlined. here today. . using money from oil and natural gas royalities from federal offshore energy leases. sadly. the reality has never lived up to the promise. the land and water conservation fund is authorized to receive up to $900:million a year in energy royalties. unfortunately. those moneys do  flow automatically to the fund. congress must go through the steps of appropriating themoney. regrettably. congress only appropriated $188 million this yeara far cry from $900 million. in an era of astroical budget deficits. the biggest problem we face is financing a new "dedicated" fund to which the money will go without any action by congress. to do the job right. i believe we need a fund- offering as much as a billion dollars a year. were never going to get that out of general revenues. how do we raise the $1 billion a year. first. we take $300 million per year from outer continental shelf oil and gas leasing revenues. this represents close to the average amount that congress has appropriated -from -the land .and water conservation fund in recent yeafs for land ailiisitiohad- outdoor recreation. a significant ocs contrijbution to the new fund isinkeeping .with thephilosphy. behind the original lwcfas we tdeplete our renewable resource basd. a portion *of the revelueshould be reinvestedto .permanently protect other phbli& resources. second. $200 million per year will come from issuance of new. conservation bonds that will be available for purchase by large as well as small investors. this is designed. in part. to encourage widespread. grassroots participation in this new effort. third. $500 million per year can be raised with real estate transfer tax of 21/2 percent on major real estate transactions. by "major transactions" i mean those over $5 million. the goal here is  to affect homeowners..or small businesses. only those who exchange property worth over $5 million would pay the tax. i might also point out that the proposed tax is based on preliminary figures and may very well be revised downward as we review the data. while the -concept of a national trust fund to preserve open space will obviously attract the enthusiastic support of environmentalists. i hope that other groups will see its merit and join the crusade. landscape architects k the value to a community of well planned parks. city planners. beset with urban congestion. should welcome the opportunity to provide out-. door recreation facilities for their communities. since open space provides new opportunities for athletic activities. which promote health. i would hope the medical profession would lend its endorsement. i am concerned this effort will be op.posed by many largescale developers. -i fervently hope that does happen. those who make -their living in land development. should recognize that welldesigned parks. recreation facill.ties and open space add an. appealing dimension to their own projects and the communities in which they reside. . those who care about open space. the preservation of wetlands and the need to curb urban and suburban sprawlin short. all who care about the environmental quality of our livesmust take this case to the public before we discover that only asphalt and concrete remain. ecoic prosperity involves more than development. it involves the intangibles that enhance our lives and give them breadth and depth beyond the pressures and frustrations of our daily existence. . the ability to enjoy the serenity of a silent meadow. to walk alone through untrammeled woodland. to experience the beauty of a tidal marsh at sunrisethese are. the things that give fullness to the lives we lead in a hur•ried and harried age. its what is often called quality of life. - s84 35 if we act soon. future generations will look back and thank us for our foresight. if we fail to actif we let this opportunity pass us bythe quality of life available to our children and grandchildren will be lessened and they will wonder at our selfishness in squandering resources that brightened the lives of earlier generations. what i am proposing will  happen by itself. it will become a reality only when public pressure is created and congress can longer avoid the issue. this is a challenge to the public and to those of us in the congress. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation and join me in meeting the challenge. (the text of the bill is printed in the record of june 19. 1987. at page s. 8398.)
 of the united states on his recent visit to bonn. but ody wanted to incur the slightest discomfort. and ody wanted to inform their constituency of the discomforts required. so the conservation aspects of energy in this country went out the window. the figures have been rehashed many times. what is our bill from saudi arabia. it is up some 1.000 percent in the last 4 years. gas consumption is up. oil consumption is up. we say we are doing well with the cars. and all of a sudden we are all using vans. and they use twice as much gas. any suggestion that there be an act of selfdiscipline in the conservation sense. and everybody runs out of this chamber. that is what was at issue at bonn.  the fact that we did  have a bill. america. for quite some time. has  shown its willingness to make the substantive changes and to take the substantive measures which will bring us into fiscal soundness. a fiscal soundness on which the world relies. since the dollar is the premier currency. leaving conservation aside for a minute let us look at the complexity of this compromise. twenty different categories of gas pricing. why is it that we have to so contort ourselves. the reason is very simple. as i stated on the floor the other day. in putting together this compromise. producing interests have been consulted. consuming interests have been consulted. the southwest has been consulted. the theast has been consulted. liberals have been consulted. conservative interests have been consulted republican interests and democratic interests have been consulted. but here in the bill is there an attempt to consider the american interests. that one common bond which can produce a common solutionthe free market. i find it ironic that those who speak for the principles of the free market. of deregulation and decontrol. have to explain why it is that we feel the nation once again should go back to that system. ask the individual on the street why supplies are short and prices are high. it did  come to pass by virtue of a system of deregulation or decontrol. it did  come to pass. because of the free market. we have  had that in the last 4 years. it has been a system of controls. yet. it is those who advise a change in the game plan who somehow have to do the explaining. rather than those who have built the most horrendous track record in the history of our free enterprise system. the american people were promised that with controls there would be lower prices. question: are the prices lower. in essence. i suppose it has been the philosophical attitudes of most of the members of the two major parties that have prevented any sort of realistic solution. in the main. democrats have been opposed to deregulation and decontrol. so there has been incentive to get additional supplies. hence. the supply portion of the equation of the law of supply and demand has made it impossible to do anything to try to resolve our energy crisis. incentive. supplies. republicans. in the main. have been opposed to any form of mandatory conservation. so it has been impossible to do anything with the demand side of that equation. so you are stymied on the one hand. unable to do anything with the demand. unable to do anything with supply on the other. and everybody wonders why there has been resolution to the energy crisis.
s proposed budget for 1984 for energy conservation and related programs within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. the hearing will be held on tuesday. march 8. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. testimony will be received from administration witnesses. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the subcommittee staff at 2240613.
s proposed budget for 1984 for energy conservation and related programs within the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. the hearing will be held on tuesday. march 8. beginning at 10 a.m. in room sd366 of the dirksen senate office building. testimony will be received from administration witnesses. for further information regarding this hearing you may wish to contact mr. tom winn of the subcommittee staff at 2240613.
. the resolution. which i have submitted to the leadership and to the state department. endeavors to show the attitude of the senate respecting the impending conference. it has operative force. it is a sense of the senate resolution. and its recital sets forth the obvious difficulties which prevail before us at this time respecting the oil crisis and the problems which arise for the whole world in connection with it. the resolution then suggests the matters which ought to be considered by the washington energy conference. those matters being: first. conservation measures in the major oilconsuming countries which are necessary to reduce demand. and which should be a major part of the policy adopted by the oilconsuming nations. second. effective plans for the emergency sharing of oil resources. which could be acted on subject to the constitutional processes of each countryin our own country. congress. third. the conferees ought to consider guidelines for bilateral agreements. which. if  agreed upon in terms of some guidelines. could prove very harmful to the interests of oilconsuming nations and would extend to all producing nations. and might endanger us in terms of an arms race in the middle east. fourth. the consideration of the coordination of research efforts. fifth. the coordination of the problems on how to deal with developing countries which have to spend an extra $10 billion this year which they do  have. and as a result. this will cancel out the aid that has been given to them if they have to spend this extra money. sixth. some effort to deal with fiscal and monetary problems and the strain on the monetary systems of the developing countries. we shall take every precaution in the course of the day to distribute copies of this resolution to all parties who might be interested. and i shall . if the senate acts affirmatively on this resolution. move to reconsider the vote or anything like that. so. if any member of the senate has any feeling about this resolution he can communicate it to me or to the leadership and we can deal with that situation later in the day. however. the urgency of acting reasonably in advance of the conference is such that. with the leadership on both sides. i have offered the resolution and have asked for its immediate consideration. taking the precautions which i have just described in order to preserve the right of any member of the senate who has some different feelings about the resolution.
