. it seems to me. also. that it is quite unwise to present it under this procedure where there is but 20 minutes on a side and where particularly amendment whatsoever. of one word. can be submitted by any member to the house for its consideration. in other words. it is a question of take it or leave it. and in this event. perhaps the reasons for taking it outweigh the reasons for  taking it. however. i want to make one point particularly clear. the impression seems to be prevalent that the socalled civilservice protection amendment in h. r. 4744 and similar bills would restore to the civil service substantial numbers of jobs which have been removed by action of the present administration. this impression is  correct. one schedule c position has been approvedthat of confidential administrative assistant to the chairman of the board. in addition. for many years there have been on schedule awhich covers positions  filled by competitive examinationthe two members of the actuarial advisory committee. selected by the board. competition on these jobs is  practicable. since one is chosen from recommendations made by representatives of labor and the other is chosen from recommendations by the carriers. the third member is appointed by the secretary of the treasury. finally. according to the civil service commission. there is also on schedule a a small but  numerically limited number of special claims agents who must have such special combinations of training. experience. and geographical locationfor example on indian reservationsthat competition for appointment would be impracticable. it should be added that because of the prohibition against the civil service commission conducting examinations for attorneys. which has been on the statute books for many years. attorney positions also are perforce carried in schedule a. it is understood. however. that the board has established standards for its attorney positions and they are recruited in accordance with those standards. the civil service commission believes that the merit system in the railroad retirement board has been and will continue to be satisfactorily protected under existing legislation and that only special needs have been met by the use of schedules a. b. and c. certainly. it is proper for railroad employees and railroad management to have a voice in selecting the members of the actuarial advisory board. there has never been any controversy about the persons appointed as special claims examiners. at least so far as the civil service commission ks. until the congress changes its present policy with respect to placing attorney positions in the competitive service. the civil service commission assumes that the prohibition against expending funds for examining attorneys will be continued. i have right to speak for the executive department. but i can say this. that if the executive department feels as keenly as they showed they did feel in these three reports. then by passing this legislation in this form this aftern. what all of us have agreed is a praiseworthy effort to cure inequities may go by the board completely due to the fact that the executive department will  be induced to approve what it does  believe to be wise legislation.
i commend the senator from florida for bringing this measure before the senate. perhaps it will interest the senator to k that i have heard a great deal about the bill through my mail. the senator is justified in feeling that he is  only serving a policy. but serving the interests of people. i have received large quantities of mail regarding the bill from railroad workers who felt themselves endangered by the absence of such legislation. they urge very strongly that i take an interest in the subject. in terms of their own safety. they are the men who ride the trains and cabooses. and they feel very deeply on this subject. i hope the senator will feel. therefore. that in his fine service he is serving  only a policy which the committee is convinced is the correct one and i believe the senate should be convinced is the proper policy. but a policy which individual workers in large numbers feel affects their own safety.
 i should like to state that the port of new york considers this bill to be a most important one. we have received an emous amount of mail in regard to it. i testified before the committee in favor of the bill. i am grateful to the majority leader for bringing up the bill. and i am grateful to the senator from texas for the fine position he has taken in regard to it. i trust that the bill will be passed.
madam president. it is gratifying to k that the president is aware of the problem that is so vital to the long island ecoy. but his answer does  deal with the crucial questions: what were the reasons behind the defense department decision to curtail production of the f105d fighterbomber in favor of the f4h fighter. and were there  alternatives to this drastic action which the defense department could have taken to prevent the critical dislocation to the long island ecoy. the presidents promise that an attempt will be made to maintain employment on as high a level as possible may refer to suggestions that subcontracts will be earmarked for republic. for example. today i was informed by the office of ecoic utilization policy in the department of defense that the contract for the f110 with the mcdonnell aviation corp.. in st. louis will be based on the assurance that a substantial part of the contract will be subcontracted to republic on long island. while this represents a new emphasis in procurement policy. it remains to be seen how much effect it could have on preventing a serious ecoic dislocation on long island. it is a matter which the new york congressional delegation will study carefully in the days ahead to determine whether such a move would have any satisfactory effect. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a report on the problem by justin ostro. president of republic lodge  1987. international association of machinists. as well as articles from newsday. which has played such an outstanding role in bringing the facts to the attention of public officials and the long island people.
u.s. senate. washington. d.c. dear senator: our letter of ember 17 promised you a further reply concerning extension of city mail delivery at philadelphia. imiss. in determining areas where city delivery service may be operated effectively. it has been necessary to fix some minimum standards with relation to civic improvements. these include paved or improved streets to permit travel of vehicles at all times without damage or delay. street signs at intersections. and proper house numbers. to qualify for delivery to the door. 50 percent of the building sites in the areas proposed for service must be occupied by dwellings or business places and passable walkways provided from the street or sidewalk to the delivery point. sidewalks are also required where traffic hazards or weather conditions preclude use of the streets by carriers. patrons are required to furnish suitable receptacles for delivery of their mail in all instances. at present. those minimum requirements are  met in several sections of philadelphia. however. considerable progress has been made in recent months. some of the streets which were in poor condition have been graded and graveled and bridges have been repaired. there are indications that house numbers and street signs will be provided within a reasonable time. we appreciate your interest. and assure you delivery will be extended to those areas as soon as the minimum requirements are met. your correspondence is returned. sincerely yours.
. this language stems from the extensive debate over two complex questions having to do with the postal service and new york city. the first question is "who is the proper owner of the morgan annex property." the second is "what is the best location for a multimillion dollar vehicle maintenance facility the postal service wishes to build in manhattan." the language serves a valuable purpose by clarifying the issue of ownership. however. the language used to clarify this issue appears to take as a given fact that the post office will construct the vehicle maintenance facility on this property. therefore. this wording seems to place the conference in the position of having decided on the merits of building at morgan annex. which i feel to be incorrect and inappropriate. . a number of responsible citizens and at least one agency of the new york city municipal government contend that a less costly alternative for construction exists. in addition. a number of agencies of the new york city government question the desirability of use of the morgan annex site for a vehicle maintenance facility because of its impact on the new york community in terms of air pollution. community development and surface traffic. my colleague from new york and i have insisted very strongly that the doubts be thoroughly explored. however. the questions can be settled. apparently. by us or by the parties or by the postal service itself. although i have talked with the directors of the postal service and i realize how many pros and cons there are in the argument. so we finally decided that we would get a report from the general accounting office which would gather up all of the points of viewto wit. those of the postal service. those of the general services administration. and those of the various agencies of the city of new york. and apply its own expertise to it and come up with an answer. i have talked with comptroller general staats personally and i am satisfied. without in any way quoting him. that he will have this report in about 10 days. it will take a short amount of time thereafter actually to analyze and consider it. what i am disturbed about here. is the effect of the conference language on the question of what is best in terms of housing regarding the city of new york. which is very controversial. the traffic pattern in new york. which is also hotly controversial. the environmental impact of this particular facility and also the cost question which is the most controversial of all-
