. we are today confronted with a major wasted human resource. in our ghettos and other ecoically depressed communities. the abilities and skills of millions of americans are underutilized at a time when we can ill afford it.  only are billions of dollars worth of irreplaceable talent lost. but more importanty. the residents of those communities are barred from fully participating in the benefits of our current affluence. there must be a total moral and policy commitment by both thepresent and future congress and administration to remove these barriers. and to provide the means for these citizens to become true partners in our ecoic life. it is good citizenship and makes good business sense to do so. we k that a handout provides only temporary help. the longterm progress so desperately needed by the disadvantaged requires more than federal government participation. such progress demands the continuing. -meaningful involvement of private and public groups at both state and local levelsespecially the residents of the communities we are striving to assist. several imaginative programs have been established to solve many of the problems confronting these communities. including headstart. the job opportunities in the business sector and the legal services programs. these activities must continue. as each helps satisfy a pressing need of the poor. it is equally imperative. however. that we  begin to iliprove the ecoic climate of depressed urban and rural areas. by promoting opportunities for ecoic self determination. i propose that we increase the level of fiscal year 1969 appropriations so that the office of ecoic opportunity can effectively carry out a vital new antipoverty activitythe special impact program. this legislationtitle i. part d of the ecoic opportunity act. was initially sponsored -by the late senator robert kennedy and myself. its central objective is the solution of critical r roblems existing in urban and rural communities. by reversing the tendencies toward dependency. chronic unemployment and rising community tensions. the means to this end are ecoic. business. and community development programs.a modest beginning has already been made. for example. two rural projects have been established in th carolina and kentucky. in the bedford stuyvesant section of new york city. we are demonstrating that a federally financed partnership between members of the business community and. the leadership of the ghetto community can work. in cleveland. a project sponsored by the hough area development corporation. a broadly based coalition group representing the hough community and with good bridges to the outside community. has just gotten underway with federal financial assistance.
