. on july fourth. secretary of the treasury henry h. fowler addressed the u.s. court for the western district of virginia 1967 naturalization ceremony at monticello. the home of thomas jefferson. in those auspicious surroundings the secretary gave us an eloquent reminder of the thought of jefferson and his rival. andrew hamilton. as the secretary ed. much of what those illustrious gentlemen had to say has applicability to our own situation. i call his remarks to the attention of my colleagues and insert them in the record at this point:
the amendment i have sent to the desk increases the appropriation for the immigration and naturalization service by $85.181.000. of the additional amounts provided. $50.181.000 is for restoration of necessary enforcement capability and positions and for emergency requirements necessitated by the continued influx of haitian refugees in south florida. the remaining $35.000.000 is provided for the construction of a detention facility within the united states. this amendment brings the total amount provided for the immigration and naturalization service to $473.557.000an increase of $110.181.000 over the amount requested in the march budget estimates submitted by the administration. the administration has requested these additional funds as part of its comprehensive overhaul of u.s. immigration and refugee policy. the amendment which i have introducedtogether with $25.000.000 provided by the committeeaccomplishes the appropriations actions required by this program. $42.045.000 is targeted to provide effective border and interior enforcement and restore positions in adjudications and status vertification. and $33.136.000 is provided for the detention of haitian refugees in krome th and fort allen. puerto rico. in all. 898 positions and 179 workyears for inspections are restored. as i have mentioned. we are providing $35 million for the construction of a permanent ins detention facility. details on this project are currently being finalized by the attorney general. the funds are recommended with the understanding that we expect to see these details by the time we go to conference on this appropriation act. . i ask unanimous consent that a table indicating the distribution of enforcement and detention funds. under this amendment compared to the committee recommendationbe inserted in the record at this point.
. i have a report of an investigation by a subcommittee of the senate committee on the judiciary dated march 16. 1959. it was a special subcommittee to investigate the problems connected with refugees and escapees. i ask unanimous consent to have printed as a part of my remarks the reference in the report to the arab refugee situation.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. private legislation for the relief of certain yugoslav refugees residing in new york state. i have long been deeply concerned over the plight of refugees and escapees  only from yugoslavia. but also from other totalitarian regimes. the question of involuntary repatriation of human beings to communist nations is. in my judgment. a matter that should receive the very serious attention of the congress. it involves a matter of our federal governments policy toward human beings in need. and. as this involves exchange of views with other nations. it involves issues of foreign policy. these bills would  be necessary if comprehensive immigration reform legislation similar to s. 500. introduced by the senator from michigan on january 15. or s. 1093. which i introduced on february 10. had been enacted. these. along with other immigration reform measures are presently being considered by the immigration and naturalization subcommittee of the judiciary committee. the bills introduced today provide that. upon enactment. the named beneficiary shall be considered to have been paroled into the united states pursuant to section 1 of public law 86648. these bills would. if enacted. simply charge off the admission status of the beneficiaries to the parole allotment of the united states under this law. and  reduce the regular yugoslav immigrant quota. these 29 refugees have been in our country for a varied period of years. they have excellent records during their stays here. these bills are necessitated by wholesale movement of yugoslavian merchant marine workers into this country. this movement of yugoslav refugees has raised material questions in our nation with respect to giving aid to the refugees from communist terrors. tito very definitely controls a tight communist state.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend section 101(b) (1) (f) of the immigration and nationality act to remove the requirement that only married couples may petition for immediate relative status to be accorded to their adopted child to allow all qualified americans to so apply.
that is an area which is almost a mans land in that it is believed that there are still surviving chiang kaishek troops in that area who are kind ofi would  hardly call them a guerrilla forceit is just the remains of what was in mainland china. even though it goes back so many years. and they made a very profitable trade and became a big source of illicit drugs in dealing with our soldiers in vietnam and in thailand.  that persists. and it is a very serious matter. the restoration of the growing of opium in turkey continues to be very serious. even the french agree that by means have they eliminated the processing plants in southern france. there is suspicionand here i wish to immediately divorce the mexican government from any responsibility because it is a tremendous cooperator with us in trying to stamp out this trafficbut there is suspicion that new leaky sieves have developed along the southern border of the united states. also the senator may remember that we even had trouble with diplomats coming in from latin america. this is such a tremendously lucrative business that it is just overwhelming in terms of the ability to deal with it. those are the major sources that i have described. but in case. except where it has been a considered government decision. as it was in turkey. can we throw stones at any of the governments concerned. the french. as the senator may k. have been. also working and cooperating with us. so have the mexicans. and so have many other countries. the u.n. is trying. et cetera. what we are asking of congress is a further opportunity to develop a better plan more adapted to the existing situation than the one that results from previous reorganization of nida. again. i repeat that it is  an uncontroverted problem. senator percy and the white house believe that the nida route is the route we ought to stay in. senator hathaway and i and others believe that we need some white house precedent. so. for the moment. we are calling a truce. until we get the best advice that the rockefeller panel can give us. 
