 only do greece and turkey need each other but the united states needs both of them. for instance. with greek and turkish monitoring stations on land. the warning time for 6th fleet ships is increased four fold in the event of warsaw pact air attack coming from land bases. again may i quote secretary brown. testifying before the armed services committee. and this is what he said: for soviet aircraft overlying or flying near either greece or turkeywarning can be provided while these aircraft are over bulgaria or the black sea. the critical warning time to our sixth fleet could be over an hour. without the use of data from these radars. the warning time is cut to about 15 minutes. in the case of a middle east or persian gulf conflictand i stress that persian gulf problem. turkey can make a substantial difference should the soviets choose to intervene. if the soviets can airlift forces over turkey and sealift them through the turkish straits. they would move a division of corps size force into the mideast or persian gulf region in one to three weeks. without such overflights. airlift equivalent forces would require about three times as long for the soviets. without use of the turkish straits. soviet sealift would arrive most rapidly from the pacific. but this would take about five weeks. in addition. turkeys critical geographic position. as well as its ties to iran that include membership in the cento alliance. make it a key obstacle to soviet attempts to bring military pressure to bear on iran. that greece and turkey need the protection of nato and that nato needs both those countries is the foundation of their 27 years of association with the alliance. but equally important is that both countries need each other as well. without turkey in nato. greece would stand exposed practically on all sides. this is the end of secretary browns statement. one has only to look at the public record to understand the importance that our professional military and diplomats assigned to the issue before us. for instance: gen. alexander haig. supreme allied commander of nato. stated: from the perpsective of . . . vital security interests. the impact of the arms embargo has been grievous. this position is supported by every living former nato supreme allied commander. deputy secretary of state. warren christopher stated: we have concluded that continued maintenance of the embargo would be harmful to u.s. security concern. ambassador clark clifford. who one can accuse of being in the pay or being an agent of this administration says: the current u.s. posture towards turkey is subjecting our security relationship with this important nato ally to an intolerable burden. and. finally. referring to continuing the arms embargo on turkey. chairman of the joint chiefs of staff. general jones: the implicationsof such a posture would be grave.  only for turkey. but for greece. nato. the united states. and for our friends in the middle east as well. . it seems to me that a very clear message is coming through to us here in the senate. for whatever reasons. the policy of maintaining an arms embargo on turkey has failed and that policy while far from working toward an agreement on cyprus. is driving an old and extremely important ally away from us and at the same time jeopardizing very serious american interests. so let us act to accomplish what is best for our nation by removing the embargo.
for more u.s. support (by crosby s. es) israels prime minister golda meir has  come to town with any expectation of getting her big sack filled up with f4 phantom fighterbombers or other items of military hardware. though the subject of military supplies certainly has been discussed in her meetings with administration leaders here this week. the visit is  primarily a shopping expedition.  is it an effort to counter the effect of arab and soviet attacks on israel at the united nations. so far as the israelis are concerned. the result of the debate in the general assembly always has been a foregone conclusion which they are grimly prepared to ige. the major question which  anwar sadat is making it emphatically clear that he has further interest in talking with american mediators. on the contrary. he is telling his frontline troops that "there is longer any hope at all in peaceful solutions" in the middle east and that ".there is hing left for us but the battle." at the u.n.. arab spokesmen are calling for a resolution demanding a pledge of total withdrawal by israel. if such a resolution is passed by the heavily proarab general assembly and rejected by israel. this could be taken by egypt as justification for a renewal of the war. the emphasis. then. has shifted from how to reach an interim settlement through american good offices to how to avoid aher round of active fighting. and in this perspective. the present state of americanisraeli relations does. indeed. require urgent reexamination. for it is at least questionable whether the united states. in trying to act as a mediator. to the conflict. has  in fact made a solution more difficult. lacking the firm support of the united states. including badly needed military hardware. israel has  been in position to make real concessions. any withdrawal from arab territory under these circumstances. the israelis believe. would invite still aher fullscale war under highly adverse circumstances. from the beginning. israel has been unwilling to trade territory for anything less than what it considers real security. the arabs. for their part. have been encouraged to press their most extreme demands. including threats to renew the war. in the assurance that israel is in a weak and isolated diplomatic position. the denial of american aid amounts to almost the same thing as a fullscale international arms embargo against israel. certainly as long as the arabs believe that the united states will continue to withhold support and arms from israel as a means of applying pressure. there is very little reason for them to make concessions. and unless concessions are made on both sides. settlement. interim or otherwise. will be possible. on the contrary. withholding support from israel could well encourage a renewal of the fighting. today the egyptians are using the threat of military action to increase the diplomatic pressure on israel. but when. as it will. this pressure fails to bring about an israeli retreat. the danger that sadat will have to make good on his threats will greatly increase. these. then. are some of the things that golda meir may have wished to discuss with administration leaders during her visit here. american policy until  has failed to produce any break in the middle east deadlock. and the case for greater diplomatic and military support is a strong one.
. the table which the distinguished gentleman from georgia read has two other figures which should be determinative with the house. those figures are. population of indiaappearing on page 695 of the hearings356.900.000. caloric intake per day per person. 1.600 calories. about onehalf of what it is in this country and about twothirds of what is necessary to sustain mal life. pretty close to the starvation level. the gentleman made a statement that india has some billions of dollars of foreign exchange reserves. may i inform the gentleman that a good deal of that is in frozen sterling in london. and you k how much good that is going to do them. we have just heard an eloquent statement made here that we should  deny military aid to formosa. indochina. thailand. philippines. and so forth. and that amendment failed. we can do the same thing about this. and this amendment should suffer the same fate. if we go to the people of the far east and say the only assistance we are going to give them will be military weapons. we are in grave danger in the far east. the way we will win with the people of the far east is to add to our military security program. ecoic and technical assistance programs like thisprograms which are inexpensive considering the issues involved. a gentleman said a few minutes ago that it is foolish to build tube wells in india. but tube wells is what india needs. the curse of india is that it does  raise egh food for its population. the way to get india to raise more food is to improve her water supply. are we to shut our eyes to that and even use our aid blindly. i say absolutely .. let me call your attention to one other ma tter. if they were in here asking $500.000.000 for an indian army would you  give it to them. of course you would. yet you are going to cut down to $50.000.000 for means to raise many times that amount in food which is vital and essential to every person in india. i can see how that kind of approach can be sustained in that critical area of the world because we all k that if india and pakistan fall then asia is truly gone.
 and . i only wish that this were so. but it is  so. charges made to the american people that the war in indochina would dry up overnight if our allies would only stop allowing their ships to visit communist china. can have the effect of cruelly raising false hopes on the part of americans who might  possess the facts on which to judge the truth. charges like this are more likely to damage than help the cause of freedom in the world. it is a prime and wellestablished policy of world communism to drive wedges between the communist countries. unsubstantiated charges which give a false impression of the trade of our allies with the communist bloc do  fight communism but tend to sow suspicion and distrust. the very climate the communists wish to spread in the free world. we seek with justification to bring about a complete embargo of all trade even if strategic with communist china. and we strive to see that the soviet bloc does  have war making power in any way. we must recognize that our allies are  trading in munitions  other strategic goods. that they get more out of this foreign trade to keep their ecoies strong than they give. thereby reducing their need for foreign aid. that they obtain goods from communist china which they. need. in return for the goods they ship to that country. that they are sovereign nations. entitled to make decisions regarding their own trade. that they are generally cooperating extremely well in the mutual defense program and in the control of strategic goods. and that if we followed extremist advice we would drive away our friends and be left alone in the world. to the mortal danger of our national safety and our free institutions. the dangers inherent in breaking up the free worlds anticommunist cooperation is clearly apparent to us all today.
i sum up by saying that exports are absolutely indispensable to the foreign policy of the united states. exports can be increased by our country in sufficient volume unless we also have imports. we face retaliation and communist ecoic warfare of the most lethal character. and we face stoppage of our productive capacity and expansion. unless we encourage a foreign trade policy that will get results. there are industries today that are being materially hurt by concentrated imports from abroad. there cre workers and whole communities similarly hurt. but we would be doing them favor if we erected high tariff walls or imposed quotas in order to give them relief. the way to give them relief is by international agreements and by doing our utmost to create an international trade program to get higher standards and better markets in other countries. by so doing. competition from imports. so far as we are concerned. may be somewhat relieved. finally. we must give our president flexible authority. so that if it is necessary to protect our industry for a time. that program may be phased out. and phased out in such a way that the whole world will k it is a temporary measure. finally. in our country. any business worthy of the name and any worker who suffers as a result of actions we have taken in the national interest should. in justice. be given federal assistance. as was done after world war ii. when we adjusted from a war ecoy to a peace ecoy. and gave vloans. financed by the federal government. in order to make the transition from wartime to a status consistent with the national interest. i strongly urge that it be done . i predict that the foreign ecoic policy of the united states will be the principal domestic issue of the campaign to come. i fear the day when we will jeopardize the fight for freedom. in which we lead the whole world. by improvidently trying to make decisions in the light of a national election campaign. if the administration really wants to exercise leadership. this is the time to begin to make a foreign ecoic policy. if we fail to do so. the world position and the domestic ecoy of the united states will be endangered. i hesitate to use the word "crumble." but let us remember when khrushchev says he will bury us. he says it because he does  believe we have the selfdiscipline or the wisdom to do the things of the character i have discussed. indeed. he thinks we are going to do too little too late. and that therefore the centralized totalitarianism which is communism will bury us. we defy him to do so. but we can defy him successfully only if we ourselves take appropriate measures. that is the reason for my speech today.
second. continued close cooperation in ecoic policy with the members of the european ecoic community. to the extent that this is possible for them under the treaty of rome which gives france a veto power of largebut certainly  allareas of eec members ecoic policies. let. general de gaulle veto himself into isolation. if he wants to do so. he can effectively prevent the application of cooperative monetary and balance of payments policies among his european ecoic community partners and the rest of the free world. he can destroy the bonds of cooperation in aid to developing nations which must be strengthened. he can only prevent united states private investments in france-- in the rest of the european ecoic community. if general de gaulle wants to act like the leader of an underdeveloped nation afraid of domination by yankee capitalists. let him do so. he will only succeed in turning france into the least supported european ecoic community member. third. constant negotiations with the other nato members of means for establishing a multilateral nuclear force with adequate conventional armed support. this involves an equitable sharing of nato defense costs by the nato partners of the united states. and a sharing of our responsibilities for the nuclear deterrent. once more. general de gaulle can isolate france from this effortbut only at the expense of turning his nation into a mi power. fourth. amendment of the trade expansion act of 1962 in order to furnish the president with more effective authority to negotiate with free world industrialized nations. in the light of great britains exclusion from the european ecoic community. the senator from illis and i both have introduced such measures. although our bills differ substantially. they both try to serve the purpose of deleting the restriction on reciprocal tariff elimination which is based on the requirement in the trade expansion act that 80 percent or more of world exports must be attributable to the united states and the european ecoic community. with respect to any category of items. before tariffs. on such a category can be eliminated. with the european ecoic community limited. for the time being. to only its six original members. the 80 percent provision. as it  stands. would preclude tariff elimination on nearly all items. i strongly urge congressional consideration of the approach contained in these bills. and presidential support of such a way to meet the new world situation. . i am much encouraged by an article written by the venerable american statesman bernard m. baruch. which appeared this morning in newsday. published in the new york city area entitled "france and the market." the article bears out very strongly many of the points which i have made today. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i rise to support the international coffee agreement and the resolution of ratification which is before us. i hope the senate will approve the international coffee agreement. and i shall vote in favor of the resolution of ratification. i speak on this subject only because i have a rather specialized kledge of it. i have the ho to preside over the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians conference. by virtue of having been sent to it as a delegate by the senate for what is  approximately 6 years. it is the duty of that committee to endeavor to bring the full force of cooperation of our allies. especially our allies in europe. to the implementation of article 2 of the nato treaty. which looks to the ecoic development of the nato countries and the ecoic development of those countries upon whom the future course of freedom will depend. we are  very deeply concerned with latin america. due to the fact that the nato parliamentarians conference is embarking upon a project to bring european investment. both public and private. in a major way into latin america. this is critically important to the united states. the alliance for progress is in the gravest kind of jeopardy unless we are joined by europe. with its tremendous ecoic resources. in aiding the ecoic development of latin america. the united states welcomes that kind of partnership. and the working party. which i have the ho to head. is doing its utmost to implement that whole concept. indeed. we have set up the atlantic community development group for latin america. which the senator from minnesota and i are sponsoring jointly. high government executives and leading business people in the united states. europe. and latin america. as well as the machinery of the nato parliamentarians conference. and many other organizations. are at work on this very critically important project. which in many respects may determine the success or failure of the alliance for progress. the international coffee agreement will loom as a critically important element in the question of whether we will succeed or fail in latin america. i say that because it is very clear from past experience that a sharp decline in the price of one commodity can wipe out in one aftern our combined efforts to raise standards of living in latin america through private and public investment. it is estimated. for example. that each decline of 1 cent per pound in the price of coffee means a loss of $70 million in the foreign exchange earnings of the 35 principal producing countries in latin america and elsewhere. such price declines have happened often in the past. the price of coffee has fallen about 42 percent within the last 5 or 6 years. amount of production can make up for that. it is a problem involving the terms of trade. that is a technical expression referring to a ratio of the value which a country gets for its export as compared to what it must pay for its imports. the increasingly adverse terms of trade of primary producing countries are continually vitiating all the aid we can give them. therefore. the effort to stabilize their terms of trade is a remarkably fine contribution. both to international ecoic development and to the demands of the newly developing areas for ecoic stability. indeed. these countries demand hing less of us. and they have a right to demand hing less. this agreement is so great a contribution to international stability and international peace and to the anticommunist struggle. that we must wonder why it is opposed. i have read with the greatest of interest the views of my colleagues in the senate. i am sympathetic with their views. the proposal is opposed on the ground that to give price guarantees and to governmentally limit production is an ineffective solution to this problem. in fact. commodity agreements seem to work in reverse to the real purpose for which they are designed. the best evidence. it is claimed. is our domestic farm program. imperfect as this machinery is. it is etheless an effort in the international field to do what urgently must be done to deter erosion for the present. so that the forces of recovery. development. and diversification of the ecoies of these countries may be given a chance to get started. it is almost analogous to the fact that people like myself. who are for free. liberal trade. must etheless. when there is an infant industry in a country. or a new country having frail ecoies. be sympathetic to protection for those frail ecoies. to give them a chance to get off the ground before they are submitted to the mauling of international competition. if we want to give those countries an opportunity to get off the ground. in terms of development. we shall have to provide them with some kind of stoploss situation in terms of the very saving of their lifebecause the stabilization of the value of a basic commodity like coffee. in quite a few of those countries. is absolutely the determinant of whether the ecoy will be good or will involve them in the gravest kind of difficulties. the only way in which this can be justified is shown by the very juxtaposition of the miity views and the views of the majority. in the report. the views of the majority on the coffee agreement are based upon ratification for a limited term. a 5year period. with congress keeping its powder dry on implementation legislation for only 2 years. the argument on the part of the miity was that commodity agreements never really solve anything. that in the last analysis. it would be better to give the market its toll and give the consumer his coffee cheaper. and let the automatic operation of supply and demand determine the ecoy of the commodity. both views are right. but at different times. we can afford to allow what the miity wants to be done. to be done . that would jeopardize us too seriously politically. for the same reason that we can bind ourselves to a price stabilization scheme and give up a scheme to limit competition permanently. that will  work either. as can be seen by our farm program itself. therefore. we must provide primary producing countries such relief in promoting trade as  to beggar them or to deprive them of the necessary political stability. so far as ecoics has a determining effect on their political stability. at one and the same time we should  allow the situation to become so embedded as to preclude any hope of industrialization or diversification or the ability to make a better future in their own development. the problem of commodity stabilization. as i see it. this becomes one of mitigating random and cyclical fluctuations in the price of coffeeor any other primary commoditywithout interfering with whatever longterm trend would be established by free market forces. increased stability in export proceeds of developing primary producing countries could make a valuable contribution to their ability to make longrange development plans. i favor the agreement because it is essential . it is limited in time. both in the implementing legislation and in the agreement itself. furthermore. it will give the countries involved an opportunity to make their transition. which we are financing . in trying to help them make it. which would otherwise be eroded by the terms of trade and the fundamental commodities on which they live. as a matter of policy. the united states has made a considerable shift in its use of commodity agreements. for a long time. this government was against them. it was put down as one of the main reasons why the world situation was deteriorating. the underdeveloped nations were growing poorer in relation to the fullydeveloped nations. with their diversified industry and production. which were growing richer. in other words. the situation. instead of getting better in terms of the relationship between the states which needed help and the states which were giving the help. was deteriorating instead of improving. i think it is a great thing that our country had the wisdom to make the change and  favors commodity agreements. when we did  favor them before. because of the exigencies of the situation. if we are to give them an opportunity to develop withstanding every imperfection. withstanding the fact that there are permanent solutions. there is still only one thing which can hold the situation relatively stable at this .time. and that is to give the newly developing countries a chance to diversify their ecoies and to utilize effectively the aid which we are giving them. instead of really running it down a rathole. which is to use it to make up budgetary deficiencies attributable to the fact that the national income does  come remotely within sight of looking even after minimal standards of living. so this agreement represents a change in the policy of our government. it is a very desirable change. it is a shortterm operation. as indeed it should be. it is absolutely indispensable to giving peace and for pursuing our policy of aid. which would otherwise fail along with falling commodity prices. i feel that the agreement is very desirable in the interest of our nation and in the interest of the state of our ecoy. in the interest of our leadership of the free world. i very much hope the senate will ratify the agreement.
