. i would like to engage my colleague from new hampshire. senator rudman. and my colleague from texas. the distinguished chairman of the senate finance committee. mr. bentsen. in a brief discussion about the intellectual property rights provisions contained in h.r. 3 as agreed to by conferees. i wish to clarify that this bill does hing to change current law or practice regarding parallel imports. sometimes kn as gray market goods.
. the last several years have brought us the flourishing of democracy throughout the world. in particular. the efforts by our southern neighbors in the caribbean and latin america to achieve democracy are quite impressive. the fostering of democracy has succeeded when accompanied by the development of a viable free enterprise system. it is in the best interest of the united states to encourage such progress. since these nations are formidable trade partners and play an important role in our national security. one example of a fastchanging neighboring country is the dominican republic. a caribbean nation whose history has been closely linked to the united states since the last century. my state of rhode island is blessed with the presence of many new americans originally from the dominican republic. their hard work and contribution to the improvement of the quality of life in our state is extraordinary. and is testimony to what can be accomplished in a competitive environment. i would like to submit for the record a short article titled "understanding the dominican republic." it was recently published in caribbean studies. the official organ of the caribbean studies organization. this article is authored by a former university professor. roland armando alum. who is a member of the advisory committee to the senate republican conference task force on hispanic affairs. written during a recent visit to the hoover institution at stanford university. it points out the dilemmas faced by many developing countries whose people wish to continue to follow the path to representative democracy together with a market ecoy.
. i am joined by senators tower. mcintyre. stevenson. and javits in submitting today an amendment that i plan to offer to h.r. 2176. a bill to provide for an audit of the federal bank regulatory agencies by the government accounting office. this amendment would seek to assure the privacy of information concerning individual banks or individual bank customers obtained by gao in the course of their audits. the amendment would require the deletion from h.r. 2176 of subsection (d) (5) (d). which provides that. when requested. gao must furnish such audit information to a duly authorized congressional committee or subcommittee sitting in executive session. while i believe congress should have ready access to gao audit reports and information. i believe that financial information which identifies an operating bank or an individual bank customer should  be accessible without the issuance of a congressional subpena to the appropriate bank regulatory agency. in my opinion. this amendment would protect the privacy of individuals and banks. without unduly burdening congressional committees in their oversight of federal banking agencies. the amendment would also clarify the definition of the term "agency" contained in subsection (d) (2) of the bill. by inserting language therein which would more clearly indicate that the federal reserve. the federal deposit insurance corporation. and the office of the comptroller of the currency are the agencies covered by the bill. presently. the term "agency" is defined to mean an agency listed in subsection (d) (1). which mentions the comptroller generalhead of the general accounting officeas well as the three banking agencies. thus. this change is to insure that the word "agency" refers only to the banking agencies and  be misinterpreted to refer also to the gao. the proposed federal banking agency audit act would provide congress for the first time with audit information regarding the operations of the federal reserve. the office of the comptroller of the currency. and the federal deposit insurance corporation. at present. these agencies are the only federal agencies which are  subject to audit by gao. in view of the importance of these agencies within the government and of their impact on the nations financial and ecoic structure. it is certainly appropriate to improve congressional oversight of their effectiveness. however. i also believe that the audit bill should  jeopardize the financial privacy of individuals or banks or inhibit the bank examination function of the bank regulatory agencies by requiring that financial information about individual or specific banks be provided to congress without subpenas. requiring congressional committees to issue subpenas for such financial information imposes what i believe is a more appropriate safeguard than allowing congressional committees to receive in executive session any audit information they desire. the amendment i am proposing has been endorsed by g. william miller. chairman of the federal reserve board. and by former chairman arthur f. burns. in view of their interest in this matter. i ask unanimous consent their letters to senator ribicorf as chairman of the committee on governmental affairs. proposing the deletion of subsection (d) (5) (d) of h.r. 2176. be printed in the record.
. i am joined by senators tower. mcintyre. stevenson. and javits in offering this amendment to h.r. 2176. which would help assure the privacy of information concerning individual banks or individual bank customers obtained by the gao in the course of its audits of the federal bank regulatory agencies. the amendment would delete subsection (d) (5) (d) which provides that. when requested. gao must furnish such audit information to a duly authorized congressional committee or subcommittee sitting in executive session. while i belive congress should have ready access to gao audit reports and information. i believe that financial information which identifies an operating bank or an individual bank customer should  be accessible without the issuance of a congressional subpena. of course. if such information is obtained through the subpena process. congressional committees would be expected to treat it with the utmost discretion and in accordance with the rules of both houses of congress. in my opinion. this amendment would protect the privacy of individuals and banks. without unduly burdening congressional committees in their oversight of federal banking agencies. the amendment would also clarify the definition of the term "agency" contained in subsection (d) (2) of the bill. by inserting language therein which would more clearly indicate that the federal reserve. the federal deposit insurance corp.. and the office of the comptroller of the currency are the agencies covered by the bill. presently. the term "agency" is defined to mean an agency listed in subsection (d) (1). which mentions the comptroller general. (head of the general accounting office). as well as the three banking agencies. thus. this change is to insure that the word "agency" refers only to the banking agencies and that it  be misinterpreted to refer also to the gao. the proposed federal banking agency audit act would provide congress for the first time with audit information regarding the operations of the federal reserve. the office of the comptroller of the currency. and the federal deposit insurance corp. at present. these agencies. whose total operating budgets this past year exceeded $900 million. are the only federal agencies which are  subject to audit by gao. while gao is authorized to review all agency matters regarding the use of appropriated funds. the three banking agencies receive their operating funds through assessments on regulated banks and receive funds appropriated by congress. in view of the importance of these agencies within the government and of their impact on the nations financial and ecoic structure. it is certainly appropriate to improve congressional oversight of their effectiveness. however. i also believe that the audit bill should  jeopardize the financial privacy of individuals or banks or inhibit the bank examination function of the bank regulatory agencies by requiring that financial information about individual or specific banks be provided to congress without subpenas. requiring congressional committees to issue subpenas for such financial information imposes what i believe is a more appropriate safeguard than allowing congressional committees to receive in executive session any audit information they desire. moreover. the issuance of a congressional subpena for individual financial information allows the federal banking agencies or the gao to make good faith objections to the disclosure of such information. whereas the requirement that the gao provide any such information to a committee sitting in executive session provides such opportunity. as i indicated on april 25. when i annced my intention to offer this amendment. the deletion of subsection (d) (5) (d) has been endorsed by g. wlliam miller. chairman of the federal reserve board. and by former chairman arthur f. burns. as a means of assuring financial privacy and the integrity of the bank examination process. personal financial privacy has been and is of concern to congress. particularly in light of the senate banking committees present consideration of a financial privacy bill . and i believe that h.r. 2176 should be amended to insure that there are adequate standards to protect the financial privacy of individual banks and bank customers when congress requests access to confidential financial records. i also share the desire to chairman miller and former chairman burns that disclosure of information about the financial condition of individual operating banks  be allowed to inhibit the bank examination process. at present. banks generally cooperate with bank examiners and much of that cooperative spirit is due to the fact that banks feel confident that sensitive financial information and bank examiner comments which are contained in examination reports will be afforded confidential treatment by the banking agencies. in order to protect and promote the effectiveness of the examination process. i believe we should require a congressional committee to obtain individual financial data through a subpena which clearly specifies the information requested. to allow a committee sitting in executive session to obtain any such information does . in my opinion. establish appropriate standards to protect the interests of persons who may be affected by such an information gathering process.
eagle river. alaska. dear mr. siiila: we have received a letter from modern homes. inc.. ifying us that the complaints as listed by you have been either completed or are  the responsibility of modern homes. inc. the enforcement authority of this office has been exhausted in relationship to these complaints and it is  a matter for you and the builder to settle by negotiation. in other words. the fha washed its hands of responsibility. the fha is  a party to the construction contract between the builder and the purchaser.  does the fha insurance of the mortgage loan under its contract with the private lender constitute a guarantee of construction. the purchase or construction contract is a private undertaking between the seller and buyer. and the rights and obligations of the parties would. in the final analysis. depend upon the provisions of such contract as interpreted by the courts of the particular state. in other words. these poor fellows must hire a lawyer. go to court. and sue a vast corporation in order to get their rights. despite the fact that the words "fha insured" are attached to every contract and are used in advertising the house. the fact that the construction may have been found acceptable by the fha would  be determinative of the obligations of the builder under his contract with the purchaser. the fha has authority to interpret such contracts or determine the rights or obligations of the parties thereunder. we are therefore closing our file on this matter. yours very truly.
 to veto a similar bill passed by the eightieth congress have apparently been overcome. in a day of abombs and hbomb. an effort to restore the balance between applied and pure science is entitled to our convinced support. it is gratifying to k too that. on the whole. although there is opposition to some features of this bill on the part of scientists and others who have studied the subject because of certain inadequacies. ably those relating to the broadest distribution of research grants. and questions of patent rights and cooperation with international agencies. there appears to be strong support for the bill from scientists and educators everywhere. my own wartime experience and that of many other members of the house taught us the critical place in our social and ecoic development and in the development of our national security of fundamental research in the sciences. we have made spectacular achievements in applied science. pure research. however. is the base for all such achievements. whether done here or elsewhere. the march of the world forward demands less of the nation on earth with the best technical equipment. and which has done the most with it for the human wellbeing as well as for international peace and security. than that we undertake this additional measure to make more effective our great resources for scientific research.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two resolutions adopted by the central new york patent law association. relating to rights under inventions arising from research conducted under projects financed by the united states. and modification of the act establishing the national aeronautics and space agency.
