. the bill as passed by the house exempts from interest equalization tax any debt obligations which may arise out of equipment leases under which americanmade equipment is leased by american manufacturers to foreign users. this is accomplished by the proposal to add a new section 4914(c) (6) to the internal revenue code. it seems clear that rent paid for americanmade equipment used by foreign lessees will improve our balanceofpayments position. and i fully support the amendment and the policy behind it. however. i believe the present technical form of related portions of h.r. 4750 and the code will  permit full development of the export trade which the proposed section 4914(c) (6) is drawn to encourage. it seems clear that the principal source from which export income from the leasing of americanmade equipment to foreign users can be expected is the leasing of aircraft. aircraft exports have been a significant source of u.s. export income. one can say precisely the increment in export income which we may. realize if aircraft equipment leases which might otherwise be subject to interest. equalization tax are encouraged by the proposed exemption in the statute. however. there is every reason to believe that large transactions can be effected in the foreseeable future through lease arrangements. although the same transactions could  be effected through sale arrangements. but all of this depends on such lease arrangements being assured of exemption from interest equalization tax. it seems unlikely that aircraft manufacturers themselves will be able to take advantage of section 4914(c) (6) to any substantial extent. however. the bill. as passed by the house and reported by the finance committee. includes a proposed new section 4931(c) (1) which has been drawn so that commercial banks which have authority to lease equipment may enter into leases of americanmade aircraft with foreign airlines on the same terms as manufacturers covered by section 4914(c) (6). in this connection. i e the construction of the statute included in the report of the finance committee which treats debt obligations arising out of these equipment leases as falling within the scope of section 4914(b) (2) (a). the basic provision under which commercial banks must function in order to assure exemption from interest equalization tax in financial transactions. in this way the bill as it stands permits some financial institutions to enter the export equipment leasing field free of interest equalization tax and thus provide the financial support necessary to make this source of export income a practical reality. however. the effect of the bill as passed by the house and construed by the finance committee report is that banks which do  have the authority to own and lease equipment directly would  be able to participate through their subsidiaries in aircraft equipment leasing with the assurance of exemption from interest equalization tax which is available to manufacturers and banks with leasing powers. national banks have direct leasing powers and statechartered banks generally do . and so the effect of the legislation as it stands is to limit to national banks the financing institutions which can support what appears to be a very important form of export activity with the assurance of being exempt from interest equalization tax. it seems to me desirable to broaden the range of financial institutions which can support this export activity. and the amendment to the proposed new section 4931(c) (1) which i have offered would do so. it would do so by treating leases executed by the subsidiaries of banks as if they had been made by the banks themselves. this will permit a subsidiary of a statechartered bank to lease americanmade aircraft to a foreign airline with the assurance that the lease will be free of interest equalization tax. it will thus place a lease by a statechartered bank subsidiary on the same basis as a similar lease made by a national bank or an aircraft manufacturer. we have discussed this matter with the treasury department. and it confirms that the amendment will have this reach. and that it has objection to the amendment.
