 johnsons science advisory committee. in ember. 1965. reported to him on "restoring the quality of our environment." the report cited se as one factor that had to be handled in americas future. even "the other fellows transitor radio" was mentioned in the same paragraph with jet plane se. odors from trash dumps and rendering plant odors. and piles of wrecked autos--all requiring urgent attention. last june the health. education & welfare department decided se was one of the most unpleasant forms of pollution confronting americans today. the committee decided that by later than 1973. it must have all the data to set human levels of tolerance for crowdingi congestion. odor. general stressand se. urban and rural model codes. as well as suggested standards for prevention and control of various sources of se in the environment. must be developed by the department. it concluded. one congressman. singlehandedly. is trying to educate his colleaguesand anyone else who will listenabout se and how it must be dissipated. he is rep. theodore h. kupferma (r.. n.y). whose persistence and research have made him a recognized lay authority on se. his idea is simple: create an "office of se control" within the office of the surgeon general. he has a bill before the house interstate commerce committee that would do this. the office would be the central planning agency for federal se research and dissemination of information. it also would allocate federal research money to states. or to any public or profit private groups. and would contract directly for work to abate se. at state levels. new york and wisconsin courts handed down decisions on workmens compensation for deafness. they ruled workers can collect for occupational deafness. even when they have  lost their jobs or even any working time because of the disability. however. the mushrooming number of court suits forced a change. in recent years. some states have modified their workmens compensation laws to require a worker to lose 6 months employment before being able to collect for se damage. as if recognizable sound were  egh of a problem. the public health service  has uncovered special sounds that may irritate younger people. a phs official advised senate and house committees. studying radiation from television sets. that phs tests showed ultrahighfrequency sound in the 16 kilocycle range could be produced by tv sets. although it was inaudible to mostparticularly middleaged persons--"it can be irritating to younger people." these instances. and many more. go to make up the mounting threat from se. since se is unwanted sound. possibly the u.s. supreme court voiced the solution in a 1965 decision when it commented: "the right to be alone is indeed the beginning of all freedom." but. like any freedom. the battle against se pollution will have to be fought hard. at the moment. too many americans appear unprepared to take up a sword.
. the opponents of the space program repeatedly beat the drums in an effort to reduce the nations space work. they ask what has the space program done for the man in the street. the space program has been eminently successful in meeting national goals in addition to providing an output of value to our taxpayers. this goal of placing america first in aerospace techogy and assenting the nations preeminence in space research. in fact rather than inuendo or propaganda. has been clearly demonstrated. as a result. we have concrete benefits that have resulted from this challenging work. i realize that we proponents of the program have talked about the educational impetus. the interest in science and techogy. and the enthusiasm generated in our nation by the space program as well as our space accomplishments. these issues are genuinely felt by our taxpayers and these feelings are higher than most of you think. we have  heard very much about the technical excellence that must be an accomplished fact to have a successful space mission. i ask my colleagues just what value do they place on interest by both consumer and manufacturer on the demonstrated reliability of technical equipments. electrical and mechanical. that have to perform as designed to carry out these goals. these accomplishments are readily appreciated by industry. manufacturing and testing techniques are incorporated into consumer products as rapidly as possible consistent with the ecoics involved. nasa has established the office of techogy utilization which has in turn establisheddissemination centers to speed the flow of this and other inations into the ecoy. this flow of material has grown year by year and this year the committee on science and astronautics recommended an increase in funds to be used specifically for speeding the flow of techogy relating to the solution of urban development and environmental quality problems. . if you ask me when the man in the street will realize benefits from improved reliability and improved urban and environmental quality due to space spif. the answer is they have and are continuing to benefit from space work. if you ask when the man in the street will begin to appreciate these spacerelated improvements. the answer is. "when you tell him about them." you should join the team and give these reasons as influencing your support of a viable space program. from my association with the nasa program i am convinced of the value of this work and believe that the request of 1.6 percent of total federal budget for fiscal year 1971 is well worth its expenditure for space. it must be emphasized that space research is . and can be primarily oriented toward producing immediate benefits to our citizenry. longterm gain is generally the result of any techogical improvement and this should be the expected results of the space program. i ask. do we expect the same immediate benefit from other government expenditures or from other techogical advancement. has this been true in any other techogical expenditure. lest my colleagues forget or believe that there is only longrange gain from the space program. let me remind you of the multimilliondollar space communications industry that has grown up as a direct result. the weather forecasting and storm warnings that have saved our nation and the world untold lives and millions of dollars. is it expected that every year nasa must discover a new and startling space business equal to these two contributions to our nation. i should remind you also that 99.9 percent of the space appropriations are spent in this country and that the thousands of space workers and their families do  believe that such inations of the magnitude of these two need be forthcoming each year for the program to be beneficial to them. a large portion of the aerospace industry. employing over 1 million people with an annual payroll of over $14 billion is supported directly and by the research and the techogy transfer supported by this program. to reduce the program and  support this important segment of our industry would be a folly which would seriously weaken a vital national resource. you have heard of the potential advantages of space related research for worldwide navigation improvements for aircraft and ships. a better understanding of weather and weather pheena. an opportunity for better cooperation between nations bceause of scientific interchange. mutual ecoic worldwide advantages in education and techogy and many. many other thoughts that have broad impact. have you. however. heard of the following: a nasa developed accelerometer which is the key item in the development of a direct reading drilling direction indicator. a tool that is expected to have major impact on the entire welldrilling industry. a device for precise positioning of spacecraft models in test rigs has been applied to the design of a commercially marketed digital clock. nasa research on foam and honeycomb core sandwich construction has led to development of a new process in the production of truck body construction material. inspace eating research brought forth the commercially available "space food sticks" whose marketing success inspired development by the producer of a whole new line of nutrition foods. handsized tv cameras. developed to photograph rocket stage separation. are being used to monitor industrial processes. and for crime detection and prevention. a method of damping vibration of engine compressor blades has found applicability in the manufacture of clutches for heavy duty trucks to overcome problems of virbration in gear trains. in the field of medicine which has been a prime beneficiary of space research. the following has resulted: a nasa developed system designed to monitor pilots heart action can be attached by spray action and used to radio electrocardiogram signals to hospitals to assist in emergency treatment of cardiac patients. this equipment is commercially available today. a method of measuring breathing functions especially applicable to infants and small children who suffer breathing difficulties. allowing immediate corrective action to prevent brain damage due to lack of oxygen. the fluidcooled undergarment for the space suit is used to cool the body and slow body processes for surgery and therapy. the lunar gravity simulator has been used as a rehabilitation aid for long bedridden patients who must learn to reuse muscles in order to walk. in addition. there are many other items such as minature telemetry systems. new resins for use in bone repair. radio monitoring systems for hospital automation allowing a more efficient hospital design. in other fields. the leadership that nasa has displayed in techogy transfer is bearing fruit in a number of ways. unique and :aluable relationships between nasa. and federal and state agencies concerned with application of engineering and management techogy to medicine. mine safety. pollution control. law enforcement. and transportation have been established. these cooperative efforts are being assisted by two new techogy application teams. each team is composed of people from a variety of scientific and engineering disciplines. their assignment is to transfer aerospace techogy to areas of concern in the public sector through an interdisciplinary approach to problem solving. the teams are located at the illis institute of techogy research institute. chicago. and the stanford research institute. menlo park. calif. these new groups. along with the two previously formed biomedical application teams. constitute a significant new resource to transfer aerospace techogy. the user agencies with which nasa has worked on the federal level include the law enforcement assistance administrationin the department of justicethe bureau of reclamation. bureau of mines. and the federal water pollution control administrationin the department of interiorthe bureau of solid waste management and the national air pollution control administrationin the department of health. education. and welfarethe department of transportation. and the department of housing and urban development. public agencies on the state and local level with which nasa has worked include the los angeles. seattle. new york. and chicago police departments. the maryland and illis state crime commissions and the new york office of crime control planning. the bay area. los angeles. and seattle air pollution control districts. plus other local airpollution authorities. the los angeles and bay area rapid transit authorities. and the chicago. boston. and los angeles fire departments. these cooperative problemsolving efforts have begun to pay off. among recent transfers are a compact. selfpowered. easily portable device for monitoring dust particles in coal mines. a sensor for the measurement of lowvelocity air flow in coal mines. a scanning instrument for the detection and recovery of indented writing in criminal april 23. 1970. co laboratories. an instrument to determine the sensitivity of automobile drivers to various air pollutants. the application of nasa mass spectrometers for monitoring air pollution. and the development of a portable lifesupport system for use by firemen. we have been told over the years and it is true that u.s. leadership has been based on our ability to transfer scientific and techogical output into useful instruments for the betterment of our citizens. this is a cliche. however. because of our world leadership we should  abrogate our leadership in science and techogy because we demand an immediate output that has a short range objective of meeting an immediate aim. that of requiring as a prime requisite an immediate usable output of complex techogy. we should pursue our techogical effort with prudence and with confidence that our ability to transfer this techogy has  abated.
