 of the united states directed that an investigation be made. the report of that investigation stated that: the wholesale market districts of large cities are without doubt the factor most responsible for the excess expense of marketing perishable foods up to the time they come into the hands of retailers. for more than a generation. the marketing of perishable foods has been the subject of other special investigations and studies by the federal government. by the various states. and by universities and private research institutions. . despite all these investigations the conditions in many of our large city markets are unchanged. the facilities being used half a century ago in such cities as boston. new york. baltimore. new orleans. pittsburgh. detroit. and san francisco are still being used. with the passage of time the conditions have grown worse. the wholesale markets in these cities are hemmed in in the downtown sections of the city. they lack rail facilities to the warehouses which necessitates high cartage bills between railroads and the wholesale house. traffic congestion staggers the imagination. adding to the cost of food handling and interfering with the flow of vehicles through the downtown business areas. buildings are too small. products are -piled high on sidewalks. refrigerated rooms are often lacking. modern handling equipment can be used. costs go up. the vitamin content of the foods goes down. and the toll of deterioration and spoilage is great. this situation is harmful to many groups. the consumer must pay higher prices for. lower quality products. the retailer has difficulty in obtaining his supplies quickly and efficiently. smallbusiness men who must do business in these old market districts are at a serious competitive disadvantage with the chain .organization which owns its retail outlets and hence can locate its warehouse outside the market district. the old market areas are usually a blighted sec* tion of the city interfering with the handling of traffic and creating problems for the police. health. and fire departments. the improvement of wholesale marketing facilities to provide a more stable agricultural ecoy is particularly urgent at present and i am sure that feeling is shared by our colleagues who represent and are deeply concerned with the problems of agriculture under present conditions. the savings to the consumer through drastic reduction in spoilage and elimination of unnecessary handling costs is also a matter of equal importance. as one who represents a portion of a large metropolitan area. i am sure i voice the sentiments of my fellow colleagues  only of our collective area. but of the other large metropolitan areas of our country in stating that in these days of slightly reduced weekly pay checks and inflated prices hing can be more welcome than a program which will reduce the price of any necessary and basic commodity. h. r. 4504 would encourage the correction of these conditions to the benefit of consumers. smallbusiness men. and farmers. it would accomplish this by offering mortgage insurance. like the fha. for up to 85 percent of the cost of building new markets when the new markets meet the requirements of the act. to qualify it must be shown that they would reduce foodhandling costs. leases must be signed by financially responsible firms for all facilities constructed. all railroads and trucks must have access to the new facilities. and the design of the facilities must meet certain requirements. in other words. to qualify a proposal must be a sound business proposition and reduce food costs to the public. to get the insurance a premium of onehalf of 1 percent of the amount of the obligation on the insured mortgage would have to be paid each year. i reiterate there would be government subsidy. there would be government competition with the financial institutions. because private lending agencies would put up the money. the use of the act would be voluntary. city by this act would be compelled to do anything. it merely offers help to any place that wants it and which will develop a sound plan. in speaking in support of h. r. 4504 i salute the chairman and the members of the committee on agriculture for introducing a measure wherein private enterprise and capital must be basically responsible for the success of any action that can be taken. when this bill becomes law. the action taken by the federal government is completely protected and any funds advanced by the federal government are returned to the treasury and with interest.
. international division. first national bank of boston. mr. richardson has broad experience in latin america and has developed a successful program already. a young man from medellin is working at the first national bank.  only learning u.s. banking practices. but being exposed to the full range of responsibilities of a junior executive through civic and other activities. this is an ambitious beginning but it only scratches the surface of the need and opportunity for cooperation. the effort is vast and time is short for each year the developing nations of the world seem to be falling behind their more prosperous. nations despite urgent efforts to progress. we have made a good start. we must build upon our gains and continue to enlist the commitment of public and private sectors in what may be the most exacting and vital challenge of our generation.
. last week i inserted in the record for the attention of my colleagues. two of a series of articles by lowell sun reporter. franz schoi:i on the pollution problem of the merrimack river basin: the first dealt witn the visual and olefactory effects of the rivers pollution. the second. with its effects on aquatic life in the river and on human existence along the banks. the following is the third article by mr. scholz. who cad up the merrimack and concord rivers. traversing the same route plied by henry david thoreau in 1839. as one of the "crew" during a day of this journey. i was witness to the devastating effects of pollution on the recreational potential of the river and the value of the land along its banks described in this installment. franz scholz begins with the comment that "the cost of pollution in the merrimack staggers the imagination." i am indeed hopeful that through his efforts to bring these facts before the citizens of the merrimack river basin. he will stir their imagination. and encourage the public commitment to clean it up. we can afford  to. and indeed. a clean river may well pay for itself:
if i may respond. the overseas private investment corporation would administer two programs. one is an insurance program which would insure the investor against three specific kinds of risks. expropriation. loss of convertibility. and the losses due to war.
 of the subcommittee spoke are modest and relate only to the minimal program that has been able to function under the office of private resources. this administration wants to expand this kind of activity. and to do so we need the additional funds for the reserves for the two programsone. insurance. and the other. guarantees. the other authority the administration has requested is merely the authority to take from repayments to development loans the amounts of $20 million a year for 5 yearsfrom repayments to development loansin order to provide a revolving fund which would permit the new corporation to do its work. this is the one most important creative departure that the nixon administration has advanced in the field of foreign assistance. and i think it is incumbent upon all of us to support the amendment offered by the gentleman from minnesota.
i think dr. ayres. perhaps. has had access to more companies than i have. i dont k. there is very little being done. we have a dozen or so inventors. we have a small group in japan. two small companies in the boston area and other companies around the world. there is very little really good advanced techogy work under way in a corporate level. i would say in the steam auto field. congressman farbsteini. i understand that you and dr. ayres have taken this position in connection with alternatives to the internal combustion engine. i understand that the industry has said that alternatives are  feasible. but the three federal panels. the senate committee and the california legislature. who share only the fact that they are  connected to detroit. can each come to the opposite conclusion from that of the auto industry. how do you account for this.
i think if the federal government would get itself organized to do some demonstration programs. i think that this would be the best incentive to show that some of these things will work. but at the present time. it is  being done. some of the patent clauses the federal government has is such that the good many really inative companies wouldnt want to take federal funding. and i think we are making progress. it has been very slow. and it is late. i think you are going to find that some of our conventional engines. such as battery operated. one company i am familiar with within the last six months. steam. or hydrocarbon moide. or any other system. but these are going to come into the market something other than the detroit monster. i think once this starts you will begin to prove this will work technically. and ecoically. congressman farbstein. in view of your kledge of the industry. would you care to advance your opinion on which company is doing the most in the way of research. among the four large automobile companies. who is spending the most money.
 of the united states and the government of the united states to solve the question of fueloil distribution through rationing or any other process of distrbution by the government. action could  be done in time to avert a serious situation this winter. the only way this can be done practically is through voluntary agreements among the oil companies. i happen to k whereof i speak. because the subcommittee on oil supply and distribution problems of the special senate committee to study the problems of american small business has been going into this matter quite thoroughly during the past several months. one of the great difficulties which has confronted this subcommittee in reaching a satisfactory solution to this problem has been the fear of the oil companies themselves that they would be violating the antitrust laws. when we are considering the question of a violation of the antitrust laws. i think we should bear in mind the basic purpose of the legislation which we are  considering. presumably the antitrust laws and the antimooly laws are aimed at avoiding any action which would restrain trade and fix prices contrary to the welfare of the consumersthe general welfare. that is quite different from what we have here in mind. what we are trying to do in this instance is to devise a plan. whereby through the voluntary approach. there can be greater and better distribution. and under which. because of the protection given in this section through the operation of the government itself. there will be price manipulation. there is reason why a condition should thus arise. under which there would be any form of price manipulation whatever. because this.question happens to arise at this particular.time in the discussion. and because i should like to have it before members of the senate and the house prior to the adjournment of the present session. in the absence of the chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from nebraska . who is unavoidably detained. i desire at this time to submit the report of the oil supply and. distribution problem subcommittee of the special senate committee. to which i -have previously referred. in doing so i point out that miity views will be presented by the senator from iowa . who in one particular does  quite agree with the report. therefore at this time i ask unanimous consent to submit the report.
i should like to raise a point with the able senator from rhode island. in effect the cost would  be any more one way than it would the other. as i understand. the amendment of the senator from rhode island would merely allow the home owners loan corporation to expedite the liquidation of the corporation.
. the senator from new york wants to be reasonable about this matter. the senator from new york is very desirous of having this particular bill enacted. it is important to the state of new york and to the state banking institutions in the state of new york. the senator from new york has conferred with the able junior senator from washington . who is also interested in the bill. and who. i understand. with the senior senator from washington were those objecting to it this aftern. the senator from new york finds that the distinguished junior senator from washington has been advised that certain amendments are being proposed by the industry itself. which had  been presented at the time the bill was under consideration by the committee. the senator from new york. as he said before. desires to be as fair as possible in this matter in order that all sides may be hcard and may be presented in the consideration of the bill. therefore the senator from new york. thanking the members of the committee for their previous consideration. and appreciating the attitude on the part of the two distinguished senators from washington. declines at this time further to urge the matter.
the senator from new york would like to inquire if the able senator from ohio does  believe that the maximum spread which the senator from new york has indicated is approximately accurate. the senator from new york realizes that the debentures could presumably be sold for 21/2 percent. if the market were to take them. however. in all probability there would be a necessity for a little extra charge. or a little higher rate. because of the fact that the bonds are  actually direct government obligations. but only indirectly so.
i should like to comment on the statement just made by the distinguished senator from vermont. it has been my understanding also that the supervisory authorities of the state banking institutions were  invited by the committee to express their opinions regarding this matter. . at any rate. i hold in my hand a communication addressed-
i should like to ask aher question in connection with this matter. does  the senator from georgia feel that these particular state officialsand i point out that they are state supervisory officials. they are  connected with the banks. but they are supervisory officials and they control the conduct of the state banking institutionsmight i&ell have been invited. and that an exception might well have been made in their case. inasmuch as they. of all the people in the country. understand the questions concerned with state savings institutions.
. in that connection i should like to point out that it has been my understanding that matters of this kind. in connection with commercial banks. to a certain extent at least. are regulated by law. i may be wrong about that. if i am wrong. i stand ready to be corrected. however. certainly if anything of that kind exists in cases in which commercial banks are concerned. there should definitely have been written into this section some provision to determine how much the reserves shall be. what they are to cover. and everything connected with them. however. the section contains hing of that kind.
. i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record at this point in my remarks. the text of a letter under date of september 15. to which i referred yesterday. which was sent by the superintendent of banks of the state of new york to the distinguished chairman of the finance committee of the senate. in which he gives a great deal of information concerning the situation pertaining to savings banks and building and loan associations in the state of new york.
. i think i covered that to some extent in my preliminary remarks. when i pointed out the fact that. of the 130 savings banks under supervision of the state department. 45 had  yet complied with the 10percent surplusratio requirement. so we had  yet reached that point in new york state. in addition. there is the requirement with respect to the mortgage portfolio. far less than half of the institutions have complied with that recquirement.
i thank my colleague for his valuable contribution. i also point out that if some of the things which he has indicated were to happen there would be a direct violation of the new york state banking law brought about by a situation to which we directed remarks this morning.
the new york situation. insofar as the law is concerned. is as the distinguished senator from oklahoma has stated it to be. however. i wish to join my colleague from new york in stating that in addition to that. the superintendent of banks of new york and the state banking department have been endeavoring to have the savings banks set aside 10 percent of the conventional mortgages in their mortgage portfolios. 5 percent of the veterans administration mortgages. and 1 percent of the fha mortgages. so they have an additional reserve. on top of the 10percent legal requirement. i point out that the 10percent legal requirement has  been reached by more than onethird of savings banks in the state of new york. or. at least. by approximately that number. even though the average figure is 11.4 percent. in other words. inasmuch as new york is trying to build up a condition in which the legal requirement would be higher. a 10percent requirement would be too low.
would it mean also that the savings banks and other savings institutions would be required to reduce their interest rates to their depositors if the procedure were followed along the line just suggested by the distinguished senator from indiana.
. i should like to continue. the question i raised was a very simple one. if. after this particular proposal were enacted and after it had been carried out by the savings banks in the several states. it was determined in any particular state that the reserves authorized or permitted under this particular provision were insufficient. and that they must be greater in that state. so as to comply with or conform to the statute enacted by the state. would it  be required that the interest rates themselves be reduced in that case.
i may point out to the senator one thing which i have emphasized several times today. i do  think the senator was in the chamber when i was emphasizing it. it is that new york is trying to get into a position where we can step up the 10percent limitation which is  in effect to a higher figure. that is why we are encouraging savings banks particularly to set up extra reserves. so that that law can be passed as soon as it may be possible to do so. a provision of this kind would completely prevent our going ahead.
since the reserve rates of new york have been brought into the discussion. i should like to pointout the fact that in new york state. under the law. 10 percent is required on deposits. there isan additional 10 percent of con.ventional mortgages. 5 percent of va mortgages. and 1 percent on f. h. .a. .mortgages being requested. so that with -the present requirements and the request of the state superintendent of banking it comes somewhere near 17 percent. that is about what it amounts to.
the senator from new york would like to have it definitely understood that the reason why he considers this to be bad legislation is  that it is in contradiction or violation of any law of the state of new york. the reason the senator from new york feels that it is bad legislation is that very definitely it contravenes all the principles upon which the savings banking processes have been carried on in the state of new york. and i dare say in most other sections of the country. over the years. i should like to point out-
the senator from new york is under the impressionand i ask the distinguished senator from oklahoma whether the impression is  correctthat the distinguished senator from oklahoma believes that either my colleague from new york or myself stated that the new york banking law requires reserves of more than 10 percent. is that correct.
will the senator from oklahoma allow me to read into the record again a very brief statement by the superintendent of banks of the state of new york covering this question. so that it may be clear what the law is.
. i am merely saying that. unless the way is left open for these reserves to be increased without interference. without being blocked by a federal statute which virtually will prohibit an increase in the reserves. the savings banks in new york state and presumably those in many other states will very likely find themselves in real difficulty.
i take it that is a question. and i certainly am aware of that situation. and i am grateful to the senator from new jersey for asking the question and thereby bringing the point to a focus. i understand also that the savings banks in massachusetts and in other new england states are in the same situation. i gathered from the remarks to which i listened the other day that new york and the new england states are  the only states in the union that are affected in this way. i dare say that. while perhaps  half of the states of the union are so affected. almost nearly that many are affected. in one way or aher. so far as their savings banks and savings institutions are concerned. . i wish to say that such amounts undoubtedly never would we set aside. because in reality they probably never could be set aside.
. is that i want to commend the distinguished chairman of the committee on banking and currency for the splendid leadership he has given. in view of the wide difference which existed between the house version and the senate version of the bill proposing to extend the defense production act. if anyone had told me that the conferees of the two houses could get together in less than 1 day and work out a result such as is evidenced by the conference report. which. in many ways in my opinion. is superior to the bill passed by the senate. i would have said it was impossible. but it has been done. and i think a very large measure of the success of the undertaking and its outcome has been due to the efforts of the chairman of the senate committee on banking and currency. i want to pay tribute to him at this time.
does the senator realize that the idea behind the funds and the investments referred to is to provide a ready market for bonds. i do  k why we should restrict these funds to united states government bonds.
that type of restriction is  suitable for trust funds. on that subject the distinguished senator from delaware differs materially from the authorities in the state of new york. i do  say we are the ideal state or perfect in that respect. however. we have a very good savings bank statute in new york. and a very good trustfund system. there is provided a listi believe the senator from connecticut will remember this. because he does business in new yorkwhich shows a certain line of bonds in which the banks can invest. and a certain line of common stocks in which they can invest. if we are in a period of inflationand i do  believe it will be as severe as some people think it will beone of the best hedges against inflation is investment in good common stocks.
the chairman of the committee on ways and means is much more expert in this field than i. but it is my impression from reading the hearings that the market has already discounted much of the effect of this bill. that indeed the exclusion has also removed a large area which originally was a matter of concern. so that what we are dealing with. if i understand the matter correctly. is a relatively modest amount of $200 million to $500 million. i think there are ways of dealing with the balanceofpayments problem involving $500 million.
 take with him to punta del este next month the support of the congress for the new steps that are proposed to be taken to achieve effective development in latin america. the resolve that has already been demonstrated by our partners in the alliance for progress to move toward greater ecoic integration through the establishment of a common market is commendable. we should stand ready to do whatever we can to assist the transition process. and we should demonstrate our willingness to consider further contributions to the multinational projects  being funded by the interamerican development bank. our passage of this resolution this evening in way commits us to any specific future authorizations or appropriations. this is clear in the language of the resolution. and in the committee report and i commend my colleagues on the miity side of the committee for their diligence in clarifying this point. it is vital that we express our support for the movements toward ecoic integration. and i think our action will contribute toward the success of the summit conference. as the distinguished senior senator from new york pointed out in his article in the current issue of foreign affairs: if it fails. americansth and southwill have lost an opportunity for action that may  recur for many years if at all. i urge the adoption of this resolution with strong bipartisan support and with unanimous consent i include the article by senator javits. "last chance for a common market" in the record.
. my second amendment. a copy of which is on each desk. calls for full public disclosure of all items of income. gifts. and reimbursed expenses in excess of $100. each asset worth more than $2.500 other than a personal residence. all debts with certain exceptions regarding personal obligations. all transactions in securities and commodities. all purchases and sales of real property. and all business affiliations. clearly. the committee sought in its concern over the question of conflict of interest to balance the need for public disclosure in the public interest with the invasion of ones privacy. further. the committee ed the difference between other governmental entities and the legislativenamely. that the latter regularly submits itself to the electorate. proposed rule xliv establishes the principle of disclosure and is a step forward. however. i do  believe it goes far egh. i would urge consideration of full public disclosure. saving only certain clearly private matters such as mortgage payments on a personal residence or payments for a loan for household expenses. such as consolidation of medical bills. and alimony. and separate maintenance payments in those limited cases where this applied. i believe. aside from purely personal matters. that there is more merit in public disclosure than in partial or minidisclosure. i believe public disclosure would be a basic protection for members and would enhance beyond question public confidence and respect.
i thank the gentleman from wisconsin. i presume that is why i am a member of the subcommittee on indian affairs. s detailing the complicated areas of law involved. i am happy to see in the gallery several of those experts. it was obvious a change was needed. thereafter the register of copyrights prepared studies in the various areas of the copyright law. the section of patent. trademark. and copyright of the american bar association took a leading role in the drafting of the proposed new law. various and diverse industry groups joined in. and so great thought and consideration has been given to the question of changes since 1953 and even before. there have been drafts and redrafts and conferences and studies and various attempts at reconciling conflicting interests. i. myself. have become even more convinced of the need for revision as i taught the course in copyright law at new york law school. as a lawyer. i have represented authors and i have represented publishers. they have a business conflict. i have represented artists and. on the other hand. producers. they have a business conflict. and they both have an ecoic conflict with a theater owner or a broadcaster. whom i have also represented. yet it has been possible for all these different interests to be reconciled. because it was more important to have an understandable and modern law.  there may be some group like the jukebox people who are still  satisfied. they have their own ecoic interest involved. but what they want is a free ride. the present section is a compromise on that question. we should as legislators interested in the future of our country as a whole support this legislation and also the committee. our committee. which has spent countless hours to resolve the problems involved.
 at the luncheon session on friday. june 2. i was introduced by samuel w. tannenbaum. the dean of the new york copyright bar. whose late law partner helped to draft the 1909 copyright law presently in existence. there follows mr. tannenbaums talk as well as the program of the briefing conference so that my colleagues will see that what they wrought cn april 11 is of great interest to a substantial segment of society:
. this body after much deliberation in our judiciary committee and on the floor. on april 11. 1967. passed the bill for the revision of the copyright law. h.r. 2512. it is still pending in the senate. the encyclopedia americana for 1968 contains an interesting and informative review of the law of copyright to date in the article by my constituent and friend. stanley rothenberg. mr. rothenberg is an outstanding authority in this field. and i am hoed to be cited by him in his concluding bibliogiaphy for soutce material. while we wait for the enactment of new copyright legislation. i k my colleagues will be interested in the history and current status of the law as discussed by mr. rothenberg and i am pleased to bring it to their attention. it follows:
. it seems to me there is question that it was a mistake for the corporation to get into the bakke case. i think the points made by the distinguished senator from california are very true. it just did  involve a poverty matter. i have a question i would like to direct to the senator from california. if the amendment were narrowed so that the corporation could submit amicus briefs in those matters which affected the corporation. but in which they were  directly involvedin other words. what the senator might consider to be a proper instance for the corporation to involve itself with through an amicus briefi was wondering if the senator would agree to a modification of his amendment to that extent.
the corporation. it seems to me. should be permitted to participate in any case in which the validity or interpretation of the legal services corporation act or corporation regulations is involved. the most common situation in which such questions arise is. for instance. when a recipient is representing a client and is  itself a party. in other words. an instance in which one of the local legal services is representing a client and is  itself a party. although it has a very real interest in the outcome. as does the corporation. aher example would be a case in which a recipient is seeking attorneys fees under a federal statute that authorizes their award or. for example. when the recipient is resisting a discriminatory appointment witbout compensation. neither the corporation  the recipient is named a party. so the only way their views would get before the court would be through an amicus brief. i was wondering if that would meet the senators objections. i think that would clearly prohibit appearance in a future instance similar to the bakke case.
my concern is that there are instances where the corporation is  a party. but i think the senator would agree it has a valid interest in having an amicus brief presented. these are matters that pertain d¢irectly to the corporation or to its recipients. as. for example. those that i gave. where a recipient is seeking attorneys fees under a federal statute that authorizes their award. in that instance. the recipient. that is the local corporation. the local agency. would  be a party. the party would be the poor person. say the poor person is suing. for example. some municipality: in that case. the fees would be coming to the recipient. that is. the local agency. but they would  have a chance to present their views in this dispute over fees unless they could file an amicus brief. my ouestion is. would the senator be willing to modify his amendment to take care of clearcut situations like that. which would  involve bakke. or similar cases.
. i should like to ask a couple of questions. because i think there is some confusion as to what the amendment would do. under one interpretation. it would be quite acceptable. and under aher interpretation it might  be. the question really is this. and i ask the senator from california to give me a yes or on this: in a situation where a recipient projecta recipient. as they say in the languageis involved in a case. could the corporation file an amicus brief. under the senators amendment.
i want to make sure everyone understands that. i will repeat it. it is my understanding from the senator from california that. under his amendment. when a recipient is involved in litigationa recipient project or recipient is involved in litigationthe corporation can submit an amicus brief.
. i would like to ask the senator from missouri a question. if i might. in connection with his amendment. as i understand it. the rationale for the amendment that the committee presented. to delete that part of the act which required that special preference be given to hiring local attorneys. was the concern that there may be a flock of local attorneys who are willing to take on a 6month tour to get a little trial experience or experience in handling these kind of cases. but they are  expecting to stay for the length of time which the recipient. that is. the local corporation. might want. and the local corporation might well want someone who would make a commitment for 2 or 3 years to handle this rather specialized and. i might say. rather unglamorous type of law. which is rather tiring and requires a certain amount of dedication. under the suggestion of the senator from missouri. barring the spanishspeaking situation or something like that. the recipient local corporation could  take this lawyer from some other place. even though he was really wanted for 2 or 3 years.
i thank the distinguished miity leader and distinguished majority leader for giving me this brief time. this statement deals with three bills i am going to introduce this aftern to strengthen the investment and employment in our small business community.
 carter last month. while $28.500 may  mean a lot to general motors. it could be a lifesaver to a small firm in pawtucket or hoboken or des moines. my second bill will permit investors to defer the tax on any capital gain as long as they reinvest their holdings in a small business within 2 years. this treatment is much the same as that allowed to homeowners who sell one house at a profit then buy aher. this measure is essential to encouraging the flow of investor dollars back into small businesses. my third bill will simplify depreciation rules and allow companies greater flexibility in depreciating the cost of their new investments. by making this provision. we will enable businesses to recover the cost of new buildings and equipment at a time and a rate which is most compatible with their financial situation. while these bills may appear complex and technical. the real benefits will accrue to the employees and future employees of smaller companies. and i urge my colleagues in the senate to give them prompt consideration. i ask unanimous consent that the bills be printed in the record.
. i urge the senate to approve the ination of mr. milton stewart to be chief counsel for advocacy of the small business administration. there is a job to be done. and he is the right man for the job.*
. if i might direct a couple more questions to the senator from michigan. i was a little reluctant to place secretaries in positions where they must come forward with detailed reports on various subjects at specific times. it seems to me it presents problems in paperwork and in straitiacketing secretaries into performing functions which perhaps are  totally necessary. nevertheless. i can understand the thrust of this amendment. furthermore. since it deals with title ii. which is a banking committee provision. i would be interested to hear from the senator from utah. i was wondering if the senator from michigan discussed this with the ranking member of the banking committee. the senator from utah.
. the subcornmittee on consumer affairs of the senate banking commnittee has scheduled a 1day hearing on s. 414. the cash discount act. tphe public hearing will be held at 2 p.m. on lebruay 18. 1981. in room 5302 of the pirksen senate office building. questions regarding the bill or the hearings should be directed to annette fribourg. legislative assistant to senator chafee. 5229 dirksen senate office building. washington. d.c. 20510 (202) 22442921. or beth l. climo. counsel to the subcommittee. 5300 dirksen senate office building. washington. d.c. 20510 (202) 224892.
. i think we really are running out of gas in this place when we are down to quoting a freshman representative who when a vote dame out 372 to 4 saying "people did  understand what they were doing. i think i could change that vote." i am glad he got a little press and 372 people were wrong apparently. people did  understand what was going on and he could change things. we take off our hat to his confidence. the distinguished senator from connecticut says that if this amendment passes it is going to cut down on inflation. it is going to help the small purchaser. it is going to do everything but cure the common cold. we k that what he is saying is what the facts of the matter are that people who accept credit cardsnamely. the merchantsdo  have to. there is hing that says they have to take credit cards. they take credit cards because it increases the gross of their business and permits them to remain competitive. i ask the opposition why is it that if all these charges are imposed on the cash customer by the use of credit cards we do  see more operations in the country that are cash only and credit cards at all. those are the outfits that should win. easily. if this $1.5 billion subsidy is going to the credit card users. then obviously anyone who runs an operation with straight cash can sell his products for less and can drive the opposition right out. but we have  found that taking place. of course we have  because anmricans have found that credit cards increase their volume. permit them to lower their prices and remain competitive overall. how are you going to allocate the cost to the use of any form of business. they say that credit cards-
. as chairman of the banking subcommittee on consumer affairs. i am particularly interested in the views of consumers. i ask that the text of the cwt interview with senator heinz be printed in the record. the text follows:
. i am introducing legislation today which will allow banks. savings and loan associations. mutual savings banks. and credit unions to provide collective fund services to their customers. i am delighted to be joined on this bill by my distinguished colleagues. senators garn. proxmire. and hayakawa. who have all done considerable work on this bill. perhaps most important among the services this bill would allow depository institutions to provide is in the area of money market mutual funds. this bill will allow depository institutions to establish their own money market mutual funds and to sell shares to their customers. those institutions which prefer  to set up their own funds will be allowed to sell shares of money market mutual funds of any other institutions. investment companies would be organized and operated in compliance with the investment company act. and their shares registered under the securities act. the actual operation of the fund will be regulated by the securities and exchange commission. to promote uniform training. experience. and sales practice standards. the bill provides for the federal financial institutions examination council to develop appropriate regulations. it is expected such salesrelated standards will be adopted by the regulatory agencies. and the standards are to bo implemented by the federal authority with primary regulatory responsibility. where there is such federal regulation. the securities andexchange commission will have enforcement responsibility. this bill would benefit the small investor by making available from depository institutions. investment services that were previously available only to the wealthy. money market mutual funds will become more widely and conveniently available. my bill would benefit depository institutions by removing arbitrary restraints which have prohibited them from competing. many banks and savings and loan associations have expressed strong support for legislation allowing them to offer this service to their customers. i appreciate the efforts of my distinguished colleague from california. senator hayakawa. who brought to my attention the interest of credit unions offering mutual funds as v. "1l. money market mutual funds have been a blessing for the small savers of. this country tractive to persons of all income levels. their low minimum investment requirements make them the only real opportunity for the small saver to keep abreast of inflation. depository institutions maintain that the loss of funds they have suffered in part as a result of the attraction of money market funds threatens their survival. some would seek to shield the depository institutions from the competition for depositors funds by imposing onerous and unnecessary regulations on the money market mutual funds. but at a time when we are seeking to eliminate unnecessary anticompetitive regulation of our financial institutions. it is illogical to slap restrictions on money market funds for the sole purpose of making them less attractive it would. however. hurt the small saver substantially. only the little fellow. rather. if the banks and thrifts are hurt because they are prevented from comneting. i say let them compete. i see theoreticiliasis  to. the legal barriers that have separated the securities and banking industries have already been eroded by dramatic changes taking place in the financial world. and customers demand for diversity of services is only growing.  do i see a practical reason  to allow this activity. many depository institutions have developed substantial expertise in the field. as they currently provide a variety of investment services for their trust and agency accounts. money market mutual fund management does  differ in substance from the services these institutions already provide. in short. there is more reason to shield the securities industry mmmfs from the competition depository institutions would  present than there is reason to shield depository institutions from the competition the securities industry mmmfs present. congressional efforts to eliminate unnecessary regulation in this area should  be viewed as a oneway street. it is my hope that we will consider the broad range of legislation affecting financial institutions so that we can truly "level the playing field" and promote competition. ination. and greater choice for the consumer. i view this legislation as an important first step in this process. and urge my colleagues to act favorably and expeditiously on it. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the recond.
. i ask that the statement of the american chambers of commerce in latin america made before the senate banking committee on may 21. 1981. be printed in the record. the statement follows: statement of the association or american
. i would further ask my friend and distinrepreidalsetn the vaelderlyh atiop guished colleague whether the bill rpretin t e eress thvew to protects against the situation in which commiiot large bus companies that are granted i am very pleascd that the managers easier market access to existing marof the bill have seen fit to accept this kets can take over routes  served amendment and that it has been by smaller carriers. forcing such carriadopted as al committee amiendment to ers to abandon less profitable routes in the bill. outlying areas. 1 am aware that the manager of the mr. danforth. i want to assure bill. the distinguished senator from my distinguished colleagues that the missouri . has had a bill does protect against such situagreat deal of concern about the impact tions. the public interest test of the of potential route termination on entry standard requires the interstate smaller and rural communities and on commerce commission to consider. to the elderly. the extent applicable. whether issui would like to ask the distinguished ance of an operating certificate would senator in what ways he believes the impair the ability of any other motor bill protects bus service and bus routes common carrier of passengers to proin small communities and rural areas. vide a substantial portion of the serv-
. one of the ways in which the current foreign corrupt practices act has made it difficult for u.s. companies to do busness overseas is the negative way in which the act is perceived by foreign governments. during the senate banking committee hearings on s. 708 we heard the testimony of mr. mark b. feldman. a former deputy legal adviser with the department of state with extensive experience in dealing with the problem of questionable corporate payments to foreign government officials. mr. feldmans perspective on the international implications of the foreign corrupt practices act is very instructive and i ask that his testimony before the senate banking committee on may 21. 1981. be inserted into the record following my statement. the testimony follows:
. something has to be done. yesterday. we had a very important vote on the floor of this chamber in which 69 senators voted for a constitutional amendment to balance the federal budget. that is wonderful.  here is a chance for people to back up that rhetoric and do something about this incredibly wasteful program. i am for dairy farmers. i am for dairy cows. i like guernseys and jerseys and holsteins. they are all favorites. but we should  be pouring so much money into them or on them or under them. we have to get control of this. what happened. in 1979. when the distinguished presiding officer was here and i was here. we made some changes in the price mechanism. we increased the price supports. the dairy industry responded. just as in a free enterprise system they should respond. the high government price supports brought forth a cornucopia. a su. perabundance of milk and cheese and butter. the result is that  onetenth of the nations entire dairy production is absorbed by the federal government. we are taking it and storing it in caves in kansas. but there are  egh caves in kansas. they require hundreds of other places to store it. there are 180 pounds of stored dairy products for every man. woman. and childelderly woman. elderly man. young child. young womanin this country. we can give it away. it would ruin the price structure. we can send it abroad. our allies would raise cain if we dumped these substances on their markets. so we are stuck with all these aging. wasted dairy products. if we were to adopt the worthwhile amendment of the distinguished senator from florida. the impact would be lower prices for consumers. and the result would be that the consumers would go out and buy more. one of the opponents of this amendment. the distinguished juplor senator from minnesota. relates that the problem is "underconsumption." he claims that consumption fell from 700 pounds per capita in 1950 to a little over 500 pounds 30 years later. one of the factors has been the higher prices. when you go out in the market and cheese costs so much and butter is high and milk is up. the reaction. obviously. is  to buy so much. the answer to this underconsumption is to lower the prices.
. i appreciate the position that the distinguished chairman of the committee is in. i would like to direct a couple of questions. if i might. to the chairman. these issues are of tremendous importance to the banking industry. and the commercial banks especially. the legislation we are considering today does solnething for -the thrifts. there is question about it.
. the legislation we are. considering today broadens the powers of the thrifts. helps the thrifts. that is good. but at the same time. it does  broaden the powers of the commercial banks to compete. i believe so strongly that in fairness those powers should be broadened. they are being hit from the one side by the increased powers of the thrifts. on the other side  from the expanded powers but just the inativeness and imaginativeness that is coming from the securities industry. and that is fine. but at the same time. to keep one group in the middle with restricted powers. unable to expand into those areas. is to me patently unfair. the distinguished chairman of the committee has said he could count. and i am confident that he can. my question to the chairman of the committee is as follows: he indicated that he wants to tackle these issues next year. could i review with the chairman how high would he rate these issues on his agenda. he has a lot of issues coming before him. but as he sees the calendar ahead for next year. where would he place these issues we are discussing today. specifically. authority for commercial banks to sponsor and sell shares in mutual funds and. second. authority to underwrite municipal revenue bonds.
. that the boeing corporation is encountering severe competitive problems from airbus which. as we all k. is an amalgamation of several nations. principally france and great britain. airbus is a major threat to the united states and to boeing. and certainly i do  think that in this senate we want to be part of an effort to cut off boeing from its export markets as a result of retaliation that might be prompted by this iniquitous legislation before us today. this totally buy american provision. exports also provide a source of stability in manufacturing sales and employment. helping to smooth out fluctuations in domestic demand. again the boeing corporation provides an excellent example from the aircraft industry. wherein for a period of 18 months in the early 1970s. orders were received for commerical aircraft from domestic companies. think of it. boeing went for 18 months without a single order from a domestic company.
. i am proposing this amendment for myself and senator pell. this amendment deals with a small parcel of land6.8 acresin the middle of an existing state park in rhode island which the general services administration has decided to sell for residential use. the language of this amendment would prevent that sale. the general services administrations new policy of demanding fair market value for property surplused by the federal government is a result of executive order 12348 which was published on march 1. 1982. while this policy has merit in some circumstances. it does  have merit in this instance. the state of rhode island applied for this land in december of 19813 months before the executive order was published. the state never received information indicating that the former policy of conveying land appropriate for park use at 100percent discount had changed until its application was denied in october of this year.  was the state informed of the exceptions to the order under which an application for 100 percent public benefit discount would be approved. one of the exceptions to the executive order refers to applicationssubmitted before march 1. 1982. the denial of which would create a hardship on the state. as i have mentioned. the parcel of property in question is surrounded by an existing state park. the state park system in the narrangansett bay area is unique in that it provides large scale public access to the waterfront for swimming. fishing. scuba diving. boating. and many other recreational activities. if this land is allowed to be placed on the public auction block for developers to purchase. its pristine beauty will be lost forever.  only rhode islanders. but all people who visit rhode island to take advantage of its recreational opportunities will be denied the benefit of access to this propertys shoreline. this amendment is specific to this one piece of property and is  intended to have any national significance. it is my sincere hope that the managers of this resolution will accept the language that senator pell and i are proposing.
. my bill reflects many of the sugestions made during the extensive hearings the senate banking committee held on these issues last congress. i believe it accommodates all of the substantive concerns that were raised during the hearings and in the detailed discussions with industry and agency representatives over the past 2 years. because the amendment  would place these activites in a separate holding company subsidiary. the proposal insures equality of regulation and taxation. this separation of the deposittaking and securities functions also insures the integrity of insured deposits. significantly. too. the proposal enables all depository institutions to engage in mutual fund activities. i would welcome consideration of financial services powers additional to mutual fund and revenue bond authority. if further powers were authorized. it might then be appropriate to require existing securities powers as well as the new powers be conducted out of the separate securities affiliate. i expect there will also be other views on how to accomplish the more modest changes that i am introducing today. and i welcome constructive amendments or approaches. but. i urge my colleagues to take up such proposals . as existing banking law is being rapidly outpaced by events. enactment of these securities powers would be a small but significant change that would bring our banking law in line with reality and benefit banking institutions and the public alike. i intend to work closely with the banking committee chairman to help him to make this issue a priority of the banking committee this year. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. the industry has had legitimate complaints against its foreign competitors. i must point out. however. that i find a certain inconsistency between the industrys opposition to import of subsidized steel from the ec. and united states steels plans to buy semifinished steel from a subsidized european producer. between the industrys advocacy of "buy american" legislation. and a united states steel subsidiarys f lans for constructing a seattle office ower with japanese and korean steel. between arguing there is  egh capital for modernization. and united states steels purchase of marathon oil co. i find an inconsistency between the industrys claims that it can and wants to compete fairly. and its quest for acrosstheboard quotas that would close off all but 15 percent of the u.s. market to all foreign producers. despite the rhetoric surrounding quota demands. the quotas have hing to do with remedying unfair trade violations. we have anitidumping and countervailing duty laws for just that purpose. u.s. steel producers k how to use these remedies. indeed. they have done so. with substantial success in the past. as demonstrated by the trigger price mechanisms and the ec quota agreement i have just discussed. the industry is  utilizing these remedies in pursuing unfair trade practice complaints against brazil. mexico. argentina. romania. spain. south africa. and south korea. there is reason to suggest legitimiate claims will  meet with the same success as before or that remedlies will  be imposed which will fully counteract the effects of unfair trade practices. the quotas the industry  seeks in addition to the unfair trade remedies would be a quantum ieap beyond protection it has previously enjoyed. by guaranteeing u.s. steelmakers 85 percent of the domestic market. they would resurrect the u.s. industry to a market position it has  occupied since 1976 and in so doing would arbitrarily restrict even fair trading foreign producers who may be guilty of hing more than greater efficiency. this would violate our international trade agreements. giving other countries the right to concessions from the united states or the right to retaliate. and it would. as protection invariably does. result in higher prices. the industry asserts that it wants more than a level playing field. but what it really wants is to erect barriers that keep the other players off the field. and why . the u.s. auto manufacturers have succeeded in blocking the japanese out for four years. the steelmakers efforts are but a logical extension of the auto industrys efforts. the only answer is to put an end to this kind of protection tiow.o
. one of the most serious abuses of business practice is the use of golden parachutes. therefore i am introducing today a bill which will discourage them. a golden parchute is a special eiployment agrement between a coinpatny and its chief executives that guarantees those executives usually generoussometimes wildly extravagantseverance packages if control of the company changes. according to the wall street journal. some of these employment contracts can even exceed the market value of the company. or its annual earnings. their use seems to be increasing as an element in contests over corporate control. most commonly. golden parachutes are designed to provide substantial ftandal settlements to executives of companies subject to an unfriendly takeover. in case of such a takeover. the executives ball out and open the parachute. they call receive substantial settlements in the form of cash. stock. or property. sometimes paid as a lump sum and sometimes spread over several years in instaillments. these are contingent. unfunded financial commitments by a company to its execttives. as such. they are open to widespread abuse which should be curtailed. the most familiar takeover is the bendixmarietta battle. finding itself pursued by bendix corp.. martin marietta quickly protected top executives salaries with golden parachutes. marietta then enlisted the aid of united techogies. which already had its top officers outfitted with golden parachutes. united techogies went on the offensive and made an offer to acquire bendix. bendixs chief executive officer. william m. agee. in the heat of this contest. persuaded his board of directors to protect him. and the board granted him and his top executives golden parachutes worth $15 million. which included agees parachute of $4 million. bendix then called on allied corp. to serve as their ally. allied agreed and acquired bendix. this takeover left mr. agee without a job. but he is doing quite well. his golden parachute gives him an annual salary of $825.000 per year througth an att empt is sometimes made to justify parachutes on the ground that they give executives an incentive to defend their company against takeover. i ask why key cimployees should receive extra compensation to art in the best interests of their company and its owneisthe shareholders. golden parachutes can hurt sharehltders who would like to sell their strick and who might wernione a chae in ownership to enhmnce the vaine of their shares. especially when sccretly negotiated and approved by boards of directors. or  shown on fiianfial statements as contingent liabilities. such arrangements are outright dert ruictive to shareholder intercutlrently. a stockholders remedy agtinst such abuse is by means of a class aclion for wasting corporate assets and for breach of fiduciary duty. such lawsuits have  slowed the profusion of golden parachute agreements. this form of redress from bad business practice is costly and tine consuming. stockholders s:hould be better protected. the legislation i propose would  outlaw golden parachutes. but it delib erately makes them financially unaltractive both to the companies and in dividual executives entering such agreements. to the executive. who can be in better financial condition if he actually loses the company. my bill would make ilie parachute payment subject to a 0 -percent excise tax. e of the paraichute payment could be offset by tax preferences or deductions. to the company paying the parachute. the bill would stipulate that such payitnts could  be deducted as butsiness expen1ses. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be included in the recon at the conclusion of my remarks. itrtere being objection. the bill was ordered to be printed in the itcon. as follows: 8. 2323 ite it enacted by the senate and house of repre.ventatives of the united states of a ierica in congjress assembled. st.ltion i goldlen para(itlte payments.
 of the smaller business association of new england. inc. (sbane). a founding trustee of the small business foundation of america. and a member of rhode island govers small forum. mr. anderson is an inspiration to everyone who has the dream of owning his own successful company. of providing quality products. i k all my colleagues join me in congratulating mr. anderson on receiving this award and on a job well done for american small business.*
. these are simply two examples of an attitude that seems increasingly to characterize managements. that is. utter cynicism. disregard. and disrespect for the interests of the shareholder. golden parachutes and greenmail are  only abusive of stockholders interests. they also hurt employees and consumers and thus the public interest generally. the management. attitude that "ill get mine first" effectively puts workers and consumersas well as stockholderslast. these management attitudes. it seems to me. are the central issue and one that ought to be addressed. in an effort to begin the discussion with a proposed solution. i am today introducing a bill that will require every director of a publicly held corporation to own at least 1.000 shares of the company of which he or she is a director. under the bill. such an individual would  be required to own the shares at the moment of assuming directorship. if a new director can afford to buy the shares initially. the bill simply requires that all of that individuals directors fees be applied to the purchase of shares until 1.000 have been acquired. thus the bill would  prevent individuals representing the public interest. such as consumer advocates and others. from sitting on corporate boards. the reasoning underlying this bill is simple. it is the idea that if corporate boards would think like shareholders. they could prevent the companys managers from making decisions that are adverse to shareholders. one of the more troubling aspects of the golden parachute and the greenmail practices is that they could be stopped by a determined board of directors. but clearly many corporate boards do  approach their responsibilities with the perspective of shareholders. perhaps because they are frequently handpicked by management. they adopt the mentality of the management team.  that of the shareholder. my bill is an effort to instill an increased measure of responsibility in the behavior of corporate boards of directors. who have the power to prevent the increasing management abuses that have been so troubling. and thus protect shareholders. at the same time i believe that more responsible corporate behavior will help protect workers and their jobs. and by encouraging wiser management. stimulate the creation of new jobs. by mr. iye (for himself and mr. matsunaga):
madam president. americas industrial stength and international competitiveness ultimately depend on the vitality and creativity of its private sector ecoy. research and development lie at the heart of our industrial competitiveness. the ability of u.s. firms to remain at the frontiers of techogical development is critical to both our competitive position in the world and our national security. however basic research by companies is inhibited by its often extraordinarily high cost and slow payback. the cost and risk along with the limits on available skilled scientific and technical personnel may preclude any single company from gathering the talent needed to make an r&d project successful many companies. even larger ones. simply cant afford to pursue every idea or lead which holds the promise of a better product or process. groups of companies in the same industry therefore have an incentive to share this cost by working together to perform such research. but they are held back by fear of violating antitrust laws. most of the time. antitrust laws do what they are supposed tothey foster competition and protect consumers from moolistic practices. but they can also hurt the consumerby limiting the search for new competive techogies. this bill before the senate seeks to resttain antitrust action against joint research ventures. it is explicit and welcome congressional encouragement that joint r&d activity will generally encourage competition and put us on more equal footing with our international competitors. this kind of competition should  be inhibited by unclear antitrust standards. when joint research activities are anticompetitive. this bill still allows safeguards against that. government actions can help stimulate and release the tremendous industrial energy of our private sector. or it can stifle it. this legislation before us today is one example where we have a chance to help. and i wholeheartedly support it. i too much is at stakeemployment. ecoic growth. and americas ability to compete in world marketsto stifle techogical progress because of inflexible antitrust laws. the national productivity and ination act should become law as quickly as possible.
what this amen. ment does is take care of the situation in which the sec recently changed the disclosure rules concerning executive compensation. stock options. and a series of factors which were disclosed in the annual reports. this amendment says that it is the sense of the . congress that the securities and exchange commission should reinstate the requirements for the disclosure of executive compensation which were in effect immediately prior to december 31. 1983. this does  direct them to do it. this does  order them to do it. what it does is state it is the sense of the senate that they should do it. . i have discussed this with the managers of the bill. it is my understanding that it is acceptable.
. i offered a resolution yesterday that i am pleased the managers accepted. but this resolution is  binding. as we k. therefore. i hope the distinguished managers of this legislation. both the chairman of the banking committee and the ranking member. would use their influence to get the securities and exchange commission to go back to the old rules of disclosure and  allow these exemptions that are  in the regulations. i see reason in the world why 10 percent or $25.000 of ones cash remuneration should be exempt from reporting. so that is my plea of the distinguished gentlemen who are managing this bill. if they could take into consideration the information i have come forth with today. i would appreciate it greatly.
i appreciate that kind invitation. as the distinguished chairman ks. i left the banking committee very reluctantly. under our system in the senate with respect to service on committees. as the chairman well ks. one is entitled to remain on two committees. and the third committee must be thrown into the pot for the freshman senators to pick up. my position was claimed by a freshman senator. and thus i lost out. later. as the chairman pointed out. i did have an opportunity. as we had changes here. to return to the committee. but it did  seem quite the right thing at that time. etheless. my heart lies with the banking committee. and were i there. i would use whatever influence i had. speaking as a member of that committee. which carries a lot of influence with the sec. as we k. to get them to go back to the old rules. if the ranking miity member of that committee. who i greatly admire. could also use his influence with the sec. that would be helpful as well.
i agree with that. . i think that the managers and the banking committee as a whole. particularly those who have worked hard on this bill. have done a good job. and i hope the bill is passed. i shall vote for it. i shall also support some of the moves that have been outlined on the floor. so i look forward to getting on with this. is it the chairmans view that perhaps we will be able to vote on this today. is that his hope.
. it is clear that the amendment. is germane to the banking bill. we have already had an opinion to that effect. therefore. i am prohibited from bringing it up. i sought a waiver. but for good reason. that was objected to. but i ice that a member of the banking committee. who is chairman of the relevant subcommittee dealing with this matter. the distinguished junior senator from new york. is here. i ask whether. at the earliest appropriate time. he would be good egh to take this legislation up in his subcommittee and consider it. there may be flaws in it. what is magic about 1.000. most shares are traded in the area of $30 or $40. so 1.000 shares would be $40.000which perhaps. is too steep. but some other figure might be appropriate. all i want out of this is for directors to have a sense of responsibility toward the people they are meant to represent. i e that the distinguished chairman of that subcommittee is on the floor. if he has any comments on my request. i would appreciate hearing them.
. the amendment which senator cohen is introducing today is a needed response to a number of shortcomings in our existing trade remedy procedures. i joined senator coren as an original cosponsor of s. 2963. the small business trade remedies act of 1984. and wholeheartedly urge adoption of this amendment.e
. first. i wish to thank the distinguished senator from ohio for ifying me about this because he and i discussed it yesterday. he sent word to my office that he was bringing it up and i appreciate that. i think the chairman of the finance committee has. as i understand it. explained it well. he set forth a letter from secretary regan. it is a matter we are all concerned about in compliance. i believe that the efforts that treasury is taking in connection with this are the right steps. you can press it so far and if you push it too far you are  going to get any of the results of the measure that we won in the beginning. as the senator from ohio ks from our discussions and from his experience. corporate bearer bonds were perfectly possible prior to this because they could be issued through the lesser antilles and in the form of eurobonds. so we are  creating a new loophole by any means. i k the senator from ohio has spent some time on this. we all met with secretary regan. i think this is a good letter that the secretary sent back. particularly with the 90day report. i hope that thiswould  be pressed much further because i hope the senator is satisfied with the explanations. i wish to assure himand i k the chairman of the committee said the same thing undoubtedlybut i want to assure the senator from ohio that i. and i have probably been the prime sponsor of this. along with the senator from texas. senator bentsenand i k he feels the same waywe both will be carefully monitoring this to see that compliance is  vitiated in some form. so that it will  become a massive loophole.
. this approach to hostile takeovers does  imply lack of support for free market forces. a free market ecoy is the foundation of our countrys greatness and. as such. should proceed with minimum government interference. i fully support the ability of corporations to merge and the right of shareholders to replace inefficient management when necessary. but these hostile takeovers are undermining our ecoic system and our competitiveness in a way that we can ill afford. the massive debt being borne by target companies either as a result of a successful hostile takeover or to defend against one. further exacerbates the direction in which our ecoy is moving. our government faces massive budget deficits. our trade deficits are alarming. the influx of foreign capital to finance these deficits threaten to make us the biggest debtor nation in the world. this leveraging of america is a trend we can responsibly ige. the senate must move ahead to address the devasting effects of these corporate raids. this proposed legislation is obviously  perfect. i welcome all suggestions and improvements. but these bills represent an excellent starting place for the debate. i urge the support of my colleagues and hope hearings on both the securities and tax aspects can be scheduled promptly. i request that the text of these bills be printed at this point in the record.
. the american people and this congress have reached a point of frustration. i. for one. one of the most supportive in this body of the accessibility of the american market to japanese products. have reached my frustration point as well. we must  enact some form of retaliation. this bill i am  introducing is simple and clean cut. it prohibits any entry of japanese telecommunications products into the united states until our trade officials can certify to this congress that we enjoy the same access to japans telecommunications market that they have enjoyed here. other solution is available to us. we must act swiftly to maintain the edge we have in this sector. we are  trying to rectify past difficulties. we  have the opportunity to influence japans regulatory framework with respect to imports into a newly privatized market where we can be very competitive. if draconian steps are required to exercise this influence then so be it. the united states can longer afford to be the free and open trading partner in the face of japans increasingly merchantilistic policies. i k many of my collpagues will join me in support of this bill. i ask that the text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. the impetus for this measure comes from the defense authorization act of 1985. which officially declared 10 million ounces of silver as excess to the requirements of the stockpile. the sale of this excess silver would solve a problem currently facing the department of defense: according to the fema report. there is a shortage of many other materials considered important to the stockpile. disposal of 10 million ounces of silver would provide funds for the purchase of these materials. which include aluminum. cobalt. copper and zinc. thus. this bill would  only bring revenues to the government. but would also enhance the strategic preparedness by providing to the defense stockpile materials that fema has determined are in short supply. it is worth ing that the creation of the strategic silver stockpile was simply a byproduct of the decision in 1967 to cease minting silver coins. it was  the result of a considered determination that such stocks were essential to the national defense. before 1967. the united states consumed vast amounts of silver for coinage purposes. in 1965. for example. this country used 320 million ounces for coinage. from 1961 to 1965 more than 700 million ounces were used in the same way. clearly. there was at one time a need for large amounts of silver to be stockpiled for national purposes. but this is longer the case. the great bulk of the current stockpile was transferred from the treasury to the stockpile as a result of the 1967 act. there is strategic purpose served by this huge hoard of silver. and should a strategic need for silver ever arise. vast amounts of silver are held by the government in stores other than the stockpile and by private citizens. in any case. 10 million ounces is only a fraction of the stockpile amount. and its disposal can only serve the national interest. that is. it would test one orderly way of ridding the government of this costly. unnecessary burden. the united states has depended on substantial amounts of imported silver to meet its industrial needs. in 1982. net imports were 92 million ounces or $736 million. imports account for a large percentage of u.s. consumption. obviously. it would serve the national interest to begin disposing of the stockpile silver in an orderly fashion and thereby reduce our dependence on imports. rather than let this supply of silver simply lie fallow and soak up the taxpayers dollars. let us allow the market to put it to good use. industry sources predict a rise in the future demand for silver. which probably will have to be met through imports unless we move to dispose of excess government supplies. the stockpile silver costs $20 million yearly to maintain. and lost opportunity costs amount to more than $225.000 per day. or more than $80 million per year. my legislation would allow us to begin replacing the silver in the stockpile with the materials fema has determined to be in short supply. it would also free up for commercial use surplus silver that has needlessly remained in storage for too long. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i am pleased to join senator leahy as a cosponsor of senate joint resolution 115. commemorating the oil heat centennial year. on august 11. 1885. the u.s. patent office issued a patent to david h. burrell for a furnace that could burn liquid and gaseous fuels. this furnace was the first practical oil burner in the united states. the oil burner has had a profound effect on the techogical development of our country. in world war i. the oil burner became the primary source of propulsion for large warships. helping to establish the united states as a world power. after the war. oil burner techogy was extended to heat businesses and homes. oil burners continue to be a major heating source. in new england. more than 2 million commercial and residential buildings are heated by oil. in my own home state of rhode island. more than 170.000 buildings utilize oil heat. translating into 225 milliongallons of heating oil per year. over 800.000 rhode island residents depend on oil to heat their homes. in order to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the oil burner. the independent oil marketers in new england are planning a major celebration in june. i commend their efforts and ask that we. in congress. also recognize the contribution of the oil burner to the techogical revolution of the 20th century. i urge my colleagues to support this effort.e
. i am pleased to join with senators mtzenbaum and exon as a cosponsor of this amendment to block implementation of a federal energy regulatory commission rule to decontrol the price of old natural gas. the effect of the ferc rule would be to permit old gas prices to zoom as high as $2.57 per mcf. while the current spot market price is only $1.50 per mcf. rhode island would suffer greatly from such a decontrol of old ga&. like the rest of new england. rhode island lacks indiges petroleum resources and must pipe in its gas from other parts of the country. decontrol would transfer billions of dollars from homeowners and small businessmen to the large producing companies. which own the vast majority of old gas reserves. for many residential users of natural gas. decontrol would amount to an increase of $85 per year. it is ironic that ferc. while taking precipitous action to decontrol old gas. has  addressed the problem of very expensive new gas that is sold under highpriced takeorpay contracts. for consumers. ferc ruling would be the worst of all possible solutions: the cost of cheap gas goes up. while expensive new gas stays high. ferc should instead encourage market forces to push the price of new gas down to the current spot market level. congress explicitly decided  to decontrol old gas in 1978. since. then. congress has repffirmed several times its original decision against decontrol. ferc ruling would accomplish  through regulation what congress has refused to do through the legislative process. i urge may colleagues to support this amendment that would forestall an illconsidered ferc ruling to decontrol old gas and impose new burdens on consumers.*
they denied the de- gage on your home probably to buy an ductibility for consumer interest of all automobile. types. except you have the possibility but in major items that you so of mortgaging your home and having choose you can go and put a mortgage the deductibility for the interest in on your home and the interest on that that if you so choose. mortgage will be deductible. that is let me point out they denied the de- the bill that came out of the finance ductibility. for example. of going down committee. that is the bill that the to borrow for the education of your proposers of this amendment wish to children. that is true. they denied amend. wish to change in a rather radthe deductibility for going down to ical fashion. i believe. borrow for medical expenses. except to . my rethe extent that medical expenses are a marks are directed to either of those deduction unto themselves. they of the junior senator from new york denied the deductibility of going to or my distinguished friend from kenthe bank and putting up your stocks tucky who argued eloquently for the as collateral and borrowing for a preservation of interest deductions for home. that is true. all of those. a number of purposes. but still you had the right to resort i must say. however. that the four to the equity in your home for a mort- members of the finance committee gage and deductibility of that interest who have spoken on this issue have for whatever purpose you chose. made a breathtaking argument. it is
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on small business be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. june 19. 1986. in order to conduct a hearing on the prompt pay act of 1982.
it is apparent that our provisions. which were intended to facilitate the secondary mortgage market. may  have that effect. and thus senator bentsen and i want to clarify that it is our intention to correct any problems with this legislation in the conference. it will be our goal in the conference both to provide a .phasein of the prohibitions on vehicles utilized under current law to issue multipleclass. mortgagebacked securities and to improve the rules governing the new vehicles. we want to provide guidelines that both the industry and the tax staffs agree are workable. if workable rules can be provided in the time available. the entire subject matter should be deleted from the bill and held over for further study and future action.
. i rise today to pay tribute to edward l. blue. former chief of the rhode island banking division. upon his retirement after 32 years of service to the state of rhode island. ed blues illustrious career in state banking began in 1954. when he became an accountant with the bureau of auditors. in 1962. ed joined the banking division as a senior banking examiner. he was promoted to chief banking examiner in 1968. and was then named to head the banking division in 1981. throughout his career. ed distinguished himself by tackling each new assignment with integrity. enthusiasm. and professionalism. qualities which became his hallmarks. in addition to his outstanding service to the state of rhode island in banking posts. ed blue has brought his dedication and drive to numerous community projects. he has served on the board of directors of the united way. the urban league. and the opportunities industrialization center of rhode island. on may 22. 1986. a testimonial dinner was held in cranston. ri. to ho ed for his innumerable personal and professional accomplishments. today. i join his many friends and colleagues in saluting ed blue and in wishing him good health and happiness in the years to come.e
ial term. hopefully. we will create an institution which will give this nations small business men and women a voice in public policy commensurate with their contribution to our ecoy. i urge all my colleagues to. join me in support of this legislation.e
. my bill reflects many of the sugestions made during the extensive hearings the senate banking committee held on these issues last congress. i believe it accommodates all of the substantive concerns that were raised during the hearings and in the detailed discussions with industry and agency representatives over the past 2 years. because the amendment  would place these activites in a separate holding company subsidiary. the proposal insures equality of regulation and taxation. this separation of the deposittaking and securities functions also insures the integrity of insured deposits. significantly. too. the proposal enables all depository institutions to engage in mutual fund activities. i would welcome consideration of financial services powers additional to mutual fund and revenue bond authority. if further powers were authorized. it might then be appropriate to require existing securities powers as well as the new powers be conducted out of the separate securities affiliate. i expect there will also be other views on how to accomplish the more modest changes that i am introducing today. and i welcome constructive amendments or approaches. but. i urge my colleagues to take up such proposals . as existing banking law is being rapidly outpaced by events. enactment of these securities powers would be a small but significant change that would bring our banking law in line with reality and benefit banking institutions and the public alike. i intend to work closely with the banking committee chairman to help him to make this issue a priority of the banking committee this year. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. the industry has had legitimate complaints against its foreign competitors. i must point out. however. that i find a certain inconsistency between the industrys opposition to import of subsidized steel from the ec. and united states steels plans to buy semifinished steel from a subsidized european producer. between the industrys advocacy of "buy american" legislation. and a united states steel subsidiarys f lans for constructing a seattle office ower with japanese and korean steel. between arguing there is  egh capital for modernization. and united states steels purchase of marathon oil co. i find an inconsistency between the industrys claims that it can and wants to compete fairly. and its quest for acrosstheboard quotas that would close off all but 15 percent of the u.s. market to all foreign producers. despite the rhetoric surrounding quota demands. the quotas have hing to do with remedying unfair trade violations. we have anitidumping and countervailing duty laws for just that purpose. u.s. steel producers k how to use these remedies. indeed. they have done so. with substantial success in the past. as demonstrated by the trigger price mechanisms and the ec quota agreement i have just discussed. the industry is  utilizing these remedies in pursuing unfair trade practice complaints against brazil. mexico. argentina. romania. spain. south africa. and south korea. there is reason to suggest legitimiate claims will  meet with the same success as before or that remedlies will  be imposed which will fully counteract the effects of unfair trade practices. the quotas the industry  seeks in addition to the unfair trade remedies would be a quantum ieap beyond protection it has previously enjoyed. by guaranteeing u.s. steelmakers 85 percent of the domestic market. they would resurrect the u.s. industry to a market position it has  occupied since 1976 and in so doing would arbitrarily restrict even fair trading foreign producers who may be guilty of hing more than greater efficiency. this would violate our international trade agreements. giving other countries the right to concessions from the united states or the right to retaliate. and it would. as protection invariably does. result in higher prices. the industry asserts that it wants more than a level playing field. but what it really wants is to erect barriers that keep the other players off the field. and why . the u.s. auto manufacturers have succeeded in blocking the japanese out for four years. the steelmakers efforts are but a logical extension of the auto industrys efforts. the only answer is to put an end to this kind of protection tiow.o
. one of the most serious abuses of business practice is the use of golden parachutes. therefore i am introducing today a bill which will discourage them. a golden parchute is a special eiployment agrement between a coinpatny and its chief executives that guarantees those executives usually generoussometimes wildly extravagantseverance packages if control of the company changes. according to the wall street journal. some of these employment contracts can even exceed the market value of the company. or its annual earnings. their use seems to be increasing as an element in contests over corporate control. most commonly. golden parachutes are designed to provide substantial ftandal settlements to executives of companies subject to an unfriendly takeover. in case of such a takeover. the executives ball out and open the parachute. they call receive substantial settlements in the form of cash. stock. or property. sometimes paid as a lump sum and sometimes spread over several years in instaillments. these are contingent. unfunded financial commitments by a company to its execttives. as such. they are open to widespread abuse which should be curtailed. the most familiar takeover is the bendixmarietta battle. finding itself pursued by bendix corp.. martin marietta quickly protected top executives salaries with golden parachutes. marietta then enlisted the aid of united techogies. which already had its top officers outfitted with golden parachutes. united techogies went on the offensive and made an offer to acquire bendix. bendixs chief executive officer. william m. agee. in the heat of this contest. persuaded his board of directors to protect him. and the board granted him and his top executives golden parachutes worth $15 million. which included agees parachute of $4 million. bendix then called on allied corp. to serve as their ally. allied agreed and acquired bendix. this takeover left mr. agee without a job. but he is doing quite well. his golden parachute gives him an annual salary of $825.000 per year througth an att empt is sometimes made to justify parachutes on the ground that they give executives an incentive to defend their company against takeover. i ask why key cimployees should receive extra compensation to art in the best interests of their company and its owneisthe shareholders. golden parachutes can hurt sharehltders who would like to sell their strick and who might wernione a chae in ownership to enhmnce the vaine of their shares. especially when sccretly negotiated and approved by boards of directors. or  shown on fiianfial statements as contingent liabilities. such arrangements are outright dert ruictive to shareholder intercutlrently. a stockholders remedy agtinst such abuse is by means of a class aclion for wasting corporate assets and for breach of fiduciary duty. such lawsuits have  slowed the profusion of golden parachute agreements. this form of redress from bad business practice is costly and tine consuming. stockholders s:hould be better protected. the legislation i propose would  outlaw golden parachutes. but it delib erately makes them financially unaltractive both to the companies and in dividual executives entering such agreements. to the executive. who can be in better financial condition if he actually loses the company. my bill would make ilie parachute payment subject to a 0 -percent excise tax. e of the paraichute payment could be offset by tax preferences or deductions. to the company paying the parachute. the bill would stipulate that such payitnts could  be deducted as butsiness expen1ses. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be included in the recon at the conclusion of my remarks. itrtere being objection. the bill was ordered to be printed in the itcon. as follows: 8. 2323 ite it enacted by the senate and house of repre.ventatives of the united states of a ierica in congjress assembled. st.ltion i goldlen para(itlte payments.
 of the smaller business association of new england. inc. (sbane). a founding trustee of the small business foundation of america. and a member of rhode island govers small forum. mr. anderson is an inspiration to everyone who has the dream of owning his own successful company. of providing quality products. i k all my colleagues join me in congratulating mr. anderson on receiving this award and on a job well done for american small business.*
. these are simply two examples of an attitude that seems increasingly to characterize managements. that is. utter cynicism. disregard. and disrespect for the interests of the shareholder. golden parachutes and greenmail are  only abusive of stockholders interests. they also hurt employees and consumers and thus the public interest generally. the management. attitude that "ill get mine first" effectively puts workers and consumersas well as stockholderslast. these management attitudes. it seems to me. are the central issue and one that ought to be addressed. in an effort to begin the discussion with a proposed solution. i am today introducing a bill that will require every director of a publicly held corporation to own at least 1.000 shares of the company of which he or she is a director. under the bill. such an individual would  be required to own the shares at the moment of assuming directorship. if a new director can afford to buy the shares initially. the bill simply requires that all of that individuals directors fees be applied to the purchase of shares until 1.000 have been acquired. thus the bill would  prevent individuals representing the public interest. such as consumer advocates and others. from sitting on corporate boards. the reasoning underlying this bill is simple. it is the idea that if corporate boards would think like shareholders. they could prevent the companys managers from making decisions that are adverse to shareholders. one of the more troubling aspects of the golden parachute and the greenmail practices is that they could be stopped by a determined board of directors. but clearly many corporate boards do  approach their responsibilities with the perspective of shareholders. perhaps because they are frequently handpicked by management. they adopt the mentality of the management team.  that of the shareholder. my bill is an effort to instill an increased measure of responsibility in the behavior of corporate boards of directors. who have the power to prevent the increasing management abuses that have been so troubling. and thus protect shareholders. at the same time i believe that more responsible corporate behavior will help protect workers and their jobs. and by encouraging wiser management. stimulate the creation of new jobs. by mr. iye (for himself and mr. matsunaga):
madam president. americas industrial stength and international competitiveness ultimately depend on the vitality and creativity of its private sector ecoy. research and development lie at the heart of our industrial competitiveness. the ability of u.s. firms to remain at the frontiers of techogical development is critical to both our competitive position in the world and our national security. however basic research by companies is inhibited by its often extraordinarily high cost and slow payback. the cost and risk along with the limits on available skilled scientific and technical personnel may preclude any single company from gathering the talent needed to make an r&d project successful many companies. even larger ones. simply cant afford to pursue every idea or lead which holds the promise of a better product or process. groups of companies in the same industry therefore have an incentive to share this cost by working together to perform such research. but they are held back by fear of violating antitrust laws. most of the time. antitrust laws do what they are supposed tothey foster competition and protect consumers from moolistic practices. but they can also hurt the consumerby limiting the search for new competive techogies. this bill before the senate seeks to resttain antitrust action against joint research ventures. it is explicit and welcome congressional encouragement that joint r&d activity will generally encourage competition and put us on more equal footing with our international competitors. this kind of competition should  be inhibited by unclear antitrust standards. when joint research activities are anticompetitive. this bill still allows safeguards against that. government actions can help stimulate and release the tremendous industrial energy of our private sector. or it can stifle it. this legislation before us today is one example where we have a chance to help. and i wholeheartedly support it. i too much is at stakeemployment. ecoic growth. and americas ability to compete in world marketsto stifle techogical progress because of inflexible antitrust laws. the national productivity and ination act should become law as quickly as possible.
what this amen. ment does is take care of the situation in which the sec recently changed the disclosure rules concerning executive compensation. stock options. and a series of factors which were disclosed in the annual reports. this amendment says that it is the sense of the . congress that the securities and exchange commission should reinstate the requirements for the disclosure of executive compensation which were in effect immediately prior to december 31. 1983. this does  direct them to do it. this does  order them to do it. what it does is state it is the sense of the senate that they should do it. . i have discussed this with the managers of the bill. it is my understanding that it is acceptable.
. i offered a resolution yesterday that i am pleased the managers accepted. but this resolution is  binding. as we k. therefore. i hope the distinguished managers of this legislation. both the chairman of the banking committee and the ranking member. would use their influence to get the securities and exchange commission to go back to the old rules of disclosure and  allow these exemptions that are  in the regulations. i see reason in the world why 10 percent or $25.000 of ones cash remuneration should be exempt from reporting. so that is my plea of the distinguished gentlemen who are managing this bill. if they could take into consideration the information i have come forth with today. i would appreciate it greatly.
i appreciate that kind invitation. as the distinguished chairman ks. i left the banking committee very reluctantly. under our system in the senate with respect to service on committees. as the chairman well ks. one is entitled to remain on two committees. and the third committee must be thrown into the pot for the freshman senators to pick up. my position was claimed by a freshman senator. and thus i lost out. later. as the chairman pointed out. i did have an opportunity. as we had changes here. to return to the committee. but it did  seem quite the right thing at that time. etheless. my heart lies with the banking committee. and were i there. i would use whatever influence i had. speaking as a member of that committee. which carries a lot of influence with the sec. as we k. to get them to go back to the old rules. if the ranking miity member of that committee. who i greatly admire. could also use his influence with the sec. that would be helpful as well.
i agree with that. . i think that the managers and the banking committee as a whole. particularly those who have worked hard on this bill. have done a good job. and i hope the bill is passed. i shall vote for it. i shall also support some of the moves that have been outlined on the floor. so i look forward to getting on with this. is it the chairmans view that perhaps we will be able to vote on this today. is that his hope.
. it is clear that the amendment. is germane to the banking bill. we have already had an opinion to that effect. therefore. i am prohibited from bringing it up. i sought a waiver. but for good reason. that was objected to. but i ice that a member of the banking committee. who is chairman of the relevant subcommittee dealing with this matter. the distinguished junior senator from new york. is here. i ask whether. at the earliest appropriate time. he would be good egh to take this legislation up in his subcommittee and consider it. there may be flaws in it. what is magic about 1.000. most shares are traded in the area of $30 or $40. so 1.000 shares would be $40.000which perhaps. is too steep. but some other figure might be appropriate. all i want out of this is for directors to have a sense of responsibility toward the people they are meant to represent. i e that the distinguished chairman of that subcommittee is on the floor. if he has any comments on my request. i would appreciate hearing them.
. the amendment which senator cohen is introducing today is a needed response to a number of shortcomings in our existing trade remedy procedures. i joined senator coren as an original cosponsor of s. 2963. the small business trade remedies act of 1984. and wholeheartedly urge adoption of this amendment.e
. first. i wish to thank the distinguished senator from ohio for ifying me about this because he and i discussed it yesterday. he sent word to my office that he was bringing it up and i appreciate that. i think the chairman of the finance committee has. as i understand it. explained it well. he set forth a letter from secretary regan. it is a matter we are all concerned about in compliance. i believe that the efforts that treasury is taking in connection with this are the right steps. you can press it so far and if you push it too far you are  going to get any of the results of the measure that we won in the beginning. as the senator from ohio ks from our discussions and from his experience. corporate bearer bonds were perfectly possible prior to this because they could be issued through the lesser antilles and in the form of eurobonds. so we are  creating a new loophole by any means. i k the senator from ohio has spent some time on this. we all met with secretary regan. i think this is a good letter that the secretary sent back. particularly with the 90day report. i hope that thiswould  be pressed much further because i hope the senator is satisfied with the explanations. i wish to assure himand i k the chairman of the committee said the same thing undoubtedlybut i want to assure the senator from ohio that i. and i have probably been the prime sponsor of this. along with the senator from texas. senator bentsenand i k he feels the same waywe both will be carefully monitoring this to see that compliance is  vitiated in some form. so that it will  become a massive loophole.
. this approach to hostile takeovers does  imply lack of support for free market forces. a free market ecoy is the foundation of our countrys greatness and. as such. should proceed with minimum government interference. i fully support the ability of corporations to merge and the right of shareholders to replace inefficient management when necessary. but these hostile takeovers are undermining our ecoic system and our competitiveness in a way that we can ill afford. the massive debt being borne by target companies either as a result of a successful hostile takeover or to defend against one. further exacerbates the direction in which our ecoy is moving. our government faces massive budget deficits. our trade deficits are alarming. the influx of foreign capital to finance these deficits threaten to make us the biggest debtor nation in the world. this leveraging of america is a trend we can responsibly ige. the senate must move ahead to address the devasting effects of these corporate raids. this proposed legislation is obviously  perfect. i welcome all suggestions and improvements. but these bills represent an excellent starting place for the debate. i urge the support of my colleagues and hope hearings on both the securities and tax aspects can be scheduled promptly. i request that the text of these bills be printed at this point in the record.
. the american people and this congress have reached a point of frustration. i. for one. one of the most supportive in this body of the accessibility of the american market to japanese products. have reached my frustration point as well. we must  enact some form of retaliation. this bill i am  introducing is simple and clean cut. it prohibits any entry of japanese telecommunications products into the united states until our trade officials can certify to this congress that we enjoy the same access to japans telecommunications market that they have enjoyed here. other solution is available to us. we must act swiftly to maintain the edge we have in this sector. we are  trying to rectify past difficulties. we  have the opportunity to influence japans regulatory framework with respect to imports into a newly privatized market where we can be very competitive. if draconian steps are required to exercise this influence then so be it. the united states can longer afford to be the free and open trading partner in the face of japans increasingly merchantilistic policies. i k many of my collpagues will join me in support of this bill. i ask that the text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. the impetus for this measure comes from the defense authorization act of 1985. which officially declared 10 million ounces of silver as excess to the requirements of the stockpile. the sale of this excess silver would solve a problem currently facing the department of defense: according to the fema report. there is a shortage of many other materials considered important to the stockpile. disposal of 10 million ounces of silver would provide funds for the purchase of these materials. which include aluminum. cobalt. copper and zinc. thus. this bill would  only bring revenues to the government. but would also enhance the strategic preparedness by providing to the defense stockpile materials that fema has determined are in short supply. it is worth ing that the creation of the strategic silver stockpile was simply a byproduct of the decision in 1967 to cease minting silver coins. it was  the result of a considered determination that such stocks were essential to the national defense. before 1967. the united states consumed vast amounts of silver for coinage purposes. in 1965. for example. this country used 320 million ounces for coinage. from 1961 to 1965 more than 700 million ounces were used in the same way. clearly. there was at one time a need for large amounts of silver to be stockpiled for national purposes. but this is longer the case. the great bulk of the current stockpile was transferred from the treasury to the stockpile as a result of the 1967 act. there is strategic purpose served by this huge hoard of silver. and should a strategic need for silver ever arise. vast amounts of silver are held by the government in stores other than the stockpile and by private citizens. in any case. 10 million ounces is only a fraction of the stockpile amount. and its disposal can only serve the national interest. that is. it would test one orderly way of ridding the government of this costly. unnecessary burden. the united states has depended on substantial amounts of imported silver to meet its industrial needs. in 1982. net imports were 92 million ounces or $736 million. imports account for a large percentage of u.s. consumption. obviously. it would serve the national interest to begin disposing of the stockpile silver in an orderly fashion and thereby reduce our dependence on imports. rather than let this supply of silver simply lie fallow and soak up the taxpayers dollars. let us allow the market to put it to good use. industry sources predict a rise in the future demand for silver. which probably will have to be met through imports unless we move to dispose of excess government supplies. the stockpile silver costs $20 million yearly to maintain. and lost opportunity costs amount to more than $225.000 per day. or more than $80 million per year. my legislation would allow us to begin replacing the silver in the stockpile with the materials fema has determined to be in short supply. it would also free up for commercial use surplus silver that has needlessly remained in storage for too long. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i am pleased to join senator leahy as a cosponsor of senate joint resolution 115. commemorating the oil heat centennial year. on august 11. 1885. the u.s. patent office issued a patent to david h. burrell for a furnace that could burn liquid and gaseous fuels. this furnace was the first practical oil burner in the united states. the oil burner has had a profound effect on the techogical development of our country. in world war i. the oil burner became the primary source of propulsion for large warships. helping to establish the united states as a world power. after the war. oil burner techogy was extended to heat businesses and homes. oil burners continue to be a major heating source. in new england. more than 2 million commercial and residential buildings are heated by oil. in my own home state of rhode island. more than 170.000 buildings utilize oil heat. translating into 225 milliongallons of heating oil per year. over 800.000 rhode island residents depend on oil to heat their homes. in order to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the oil burner. the independent oil marketers in new england are planning a major celebration in june. i commend their efforts and ask that we. in congress. also recognize the contribution of the oil burner to the techogical revolution of the 20th century. i urge my colleagues to support this effort.e
. i am pleased to join with senators mtzenbaum and exon as a cosponsor of this amendment to block implementation of a federal energy regulatory commission rule to decontrol the price of old natural gas. the effect of the ferc rule would be to permit old gas prices to zoom as high as $2.57 per mcf. while the current spot market price is only $1.50 per mcf. rhode island would suffer greatly from such a decontrol of old ga&. like the rest of new england. rhode island lacks indiges petroleum resources and must pipe in its gas from other parts of the country. decontrol would transfer billions of dollars from homeowners and small businessmen to the large producing companies. which own the vast majority of old gas reserves. for many residential users of natural gas. decontrol would amount to an increase of $85 per year. it is ironic that ferc. while taking precipitous action to decontrol old gas. has  addressed the problem of very expensive new gas that is sold under highpriced takeorpay contracts. for consumers. ferc ruling would be the worst of all possible solutions: the cost of cheap gas goes up. while expensive new gas stays high. ferc should instead encourage market forces to push the price of new gas down to the current spot market level. congress explicitly decided  to decontrol old gas in 1978. since. then. congress has repffirmed several times its original decision against decontrol. ferc ruling would accomplish  through regulation what congress has refused to do through the legislative process. i urge may colleagues to support this amendment that would forestall an illconsidered ferc ruling to decontrol old gas and impose new burdens on consumers.*
they denied the de- gage on your home probably to buy an ductibility for consumer interest of all automobile. types. except you have the possibility but in major items that you so of mortgaging your home and having choose you can go and put a mortgage the deductibility for the interest in on your home and the interest on that that if you so choose. mortgage will be deductible. that is let me point out they denied the de- the bill that came out of the finance ductibility. for example. of going down committee. that is the bill that the to borrow for the education of your proposers of this amendment wish to children. that is true. they denied amend. wish to change in a rather radthe deductibility for going down to ical fashion. i believe. borrow for medical expenses. except to . my rethe extent that medical expenses are a marks are directed to either of those deduction unto themselves. they of the junior senator from new york denied the deductibility of going to or my distinguished friend from kenthe bank and putting up your stocks tucky who argued eloquently for the as collateral and borrowing for a preservation of interest deductions for home. that is true. all of those. a number of purposes. but still you had the right to resort i must say. however. that the four to the equity in your home for a mort- members of the finance committee gage and deductibility of that interest who have spoken on this issue have for whatever purpose you chose. made a breathtaking argument. it is
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on small business be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on thursday. june 19. 1986. in order to conduct a hearing on the prompt pay act of 1982.
it is apparent that our provisions. which were intended to facilitate the secondary mortgage market. may  have that effect. and thus senator bentsen and i want to clarify that it is our intention to correct any problems with this legislation in the conference. it will be our goal in the conference both to provide a .phasein of the prohibitions on vehicles utilized under current law to issue multipleclass. mortgagebacked securities and to improve the rules governing the new vehicles. we want to provide guidelines that both the industry and the tax staffs agree are workable. if workable rules can be provided in the time available. the entire subject matter should be deleted from the bill and held over for further study and future action.
. i rise today to pay tribute to edward l. blue. former chief of the rhode island banking division. upon his retirement after 32 years of service to the state of rhode island. ed blues illustrious career in state banking began in 1954. when he became an accountant with the bureau of auditors. in 1962. ed joined the banking division as a senior banking examiner. he was promoted to chief banking examiner in 1968. and was then named to head the banking division in 1981. throughout his career. ed distinguished himself by tackling each new assignment with integrity. enthusiasm. and professionalism. qualities which became his hallmarks. in addition to his outstanding service to the state of rhode island in banking posts. ed blue has brought his dedication and drive to numerous community projects. he has served on the board of directors of the united way. the urban league. and the opportunities industrialization center of rhode island. on may 22. 1986. a testimonial dinner was held in cranston. ri. to ho ed for his innumerable personal and professional accomplishments. today. i join his many friends and colleagues in saluting ed blue and in wishing him good health and happiness in the years to come.e
ial term. hopefully. we will create an institution which will give this nations small business men and women a voice in public policy commensurate with their contribution to our ecoy. i urge all my colleagues to. join me in support of this legislation.e
ial term. we have before us a real opportunity to create an institution which will give this nations small business men and women a voice in public policy commensurate with their contribution to our ecoy. i urge all my colleagues to join me in support of this legislation.
. i intend to vote for the amendment of the senator from utah. but if that prevails. i immediately will come forward. if the senator from connecticut does  precede meobviously it is his amendmentwith an amendment to provide that. despite the elimination of title ii. there would be a prohibition against the sale of insurance by banksi would make it indefinite. if the senator from connecticut is the leader in this and would choose to make it a year. i would support that. in other words. i think all of us are put in sort of a quandry here. or at least i am. that is. that we do  think it is fair to put this total moratorium on the banks having these expanded powers. i do  think that is fair. however. i do believe. as do many of my colleagues. that a limitation on the sale of insurance by the banks should take place. so. because the banks. i think. are being so unfairly treatedand indeed this moratorium affects our competitive position in the world with our banks and at the same time the securities industry is pretty much on a free leashi believe that the amendment of the senator from utah is a justifiable one. but it should include a prohibition to be permanent. which i would go for. or if the senator from connecticut chose to make it a 1year moratorium. to march 1. 1988. i would support that.
i thank the. chair. . first of all i want to say as i look this over. compared to its predecessors as i understand those predecessors. i think it is a great improvement and i do want to congratulate the distinguished senator from missouri for the hard. work that he has put into this because this represents primarily his efforts. i just want to say to everyone that there is ody here who has worked harder than the senator from missouri. the senior senator. to achieve market access for american. goods into foreign countries. i think it is. safe to say that. the whole doctrine. of reciprocity flows from the efforts of the senator from missouri. he has pursued these ever since he has been in this body. so. whatever success we havenever mind this particular provision. but through 301is as a result of the continuous. persistent efforts of the senator from missouri who has been so deeply involved and conscientious in pursuing this effort. as he stated continuously. the senator from missouri is opposed to protectionism but he does demand that other nations open their markets to american goods. i want to commend him for what he has done. i have a particular question. if i might. which i would like to direct to the senator from missouri. as i look at this. and i think we are all working from the same script. as it were. i am referring to page 8(e). "petitions by congressional committee." i look at this as a really freestanding section. when it talks about a consistent pattern of import barriers or market distorting practices. that there is reference to the. prior sections of this amendmentlet us call it this amendmentthere are references to the prior sections of this amendment in which the special trade representative is to determine whether a nation has a consistent pattern of import. barriers. am i correct in that.
i would like to reserve my right to object. if i might make an inquiry. madam president. it is my understanding that pursuant to the agreement that was previously made. we are moving banking legislation . am i correct. is this going to be interspersed with a variety of other matters. i think we ought to k.
. i add my praise to the senator from pennsylvania because he has carried the ball here in the years that i was  on the banking committee. so he really has been a prime element in our being able to proceed ahead. so he deserves a lot of credit for the changes we have been able to enact. i thank the chair.
. i introduced the legislation creating remics to serve a number of purposes. but my paramount concern was to provide lower mortgage interest rates for home buyers. fannie maes remic helps that goal. its inations set new standards for the remics market and fannie maes presence in the market in general helps further the market acceptance of the remic instrument overall. contrary to some of the comments raised during the remic legislation debate. remics are a beneficial tool for thrifts. i think the thrift response to fannie maes "thrift plus" certificates demonstrates that. remics help mortgage originators by creating an efficient mechanism to sell their mortgages. in addition. remics are a useful portfolio management tool. by improving the efficiency of the mortgage finance system remics will reduce the interest rates home buyers must pay to finance their homes. i applaud fannie maes contribution toward making remics work. and i urge them to maintain the effort.*
it would be useful to review the rationale for my original proposal. cranston recently completed construction of a $50 million wastewater treatment facility. the plant is designed to handle 23 million gallons per day. including 1.5 mgd that was designed and reserved to handle waste from a large industrial facility. in addition. roughly onethird of the plants biological oxygen demand capacity was designed and reserved for that facility. the industrial facility has since left cranston. leaving the citys wastewater treatment plant with excess capacity that is  being used. while eastern cranston is fully sewered and connected to the treatment plant. western cranston is . adjacent to western cranston in johnston. the rhode island solid waste management corp. is planning to build a wastetoenergy recycling facility which will require the disposal of several hundred thousand gallons of wastewater during each day of operation. the corporation is also looking for options for the disposal and treatment of contaminated leachate from the nearby sanitary landfill. cranston believes that. if an interceptor system serving western cranston could be built. wastewater from the landfill and recycling facility could be discharged into the system and conveyed to the citys treatment plant using a portion of the reserve capacity abandoned by the industrial facility mentioned earlier. if done properly. this project can serve as a model for cities across the country that are grappling with the problems of leachate from sanitary landfills and the need for wastewater management systems that can complement and. indeed. encourage the development of new wastetoenergy and recycling facilities. the citys immediate need is funds for a comprehensive study of the current and future wastewater needs of western cranston as well as preliminary design of the wastewater pumping stations. interceptors and crosstown forcemain/pressure sewers. they plan to use inative. stateoftheart techogy for this sewer system. the amendment would have provided the funds needed to conduct that study. do the managers agree that this project can serve as a valuable model for communities all across the country that are trying to solve the difficult problems of managing contaminated water from sanitary landfills and wastewater from a new. growing universe of wastetoenergy and recycling facilities.
. let me first congratulate senator proxmire and senator garn for originally sponsoring the forerunner of this bill. l.s well as marking up legislation before the moratorium expired on march 1. i commend them both for staying the course. this bill ushers in a new era. by substantially addressing the quickly evolving world of financial services. it addresses three major areas. first. it allows commercial banks to offer a broader range of securities services to consumers. while protecting the safety and soundness of the financial system. second. it clarifies insurance powers of certain banks. third. it improves consumers advance kledge of factors affecting savings accounts and home equity loans. and offers further specific protections. let us consider each of these three areas in turn.
as my colleague has indicated. this is a very important distinction which should be made. section 3 of h.r. 1207 does  deal with the gray market issue and does  change in an. way the law with respect to parallel imports under the statute which my dblleague has cited.
as i understood what the distinguished senator. the chair. man of the banking committee. said. the president has the opportunity. should the national interest be affected. to do what. what was that. was it to waive certain provisions of this.
. i would like to lend my support to the distinguished senator from minnesota [mr. boscwwrrzl for his resolution offered in the senate yesterday requiring the architect of the capitol to establish and implement a voluntary program to sort and recycle paper used by the senate. it would be hypocritical of the senate to require other branches of government and the private sector to recycle waste material. if it is  itself setting an example. also i would like to signal my intention. when this resolution is considered by the senate. to amend the resolution to also require that the senate purchase recycled paper when possible. by this action the senate will  only recyle its waste paper. but it will also close the loop. by creating a market for the sale of recyled paper. unless we take significant steps to create demand for recycled paper. the market will soon be glutted with an oversupply of recyclable material. it is my hope that the entire u.s. government will emulate the senates lead in this matter. legislation which senator baucus and i will shortly introduced to reauthorize the resource conservation and recovery act will seek to move the government in this direction.
. i would like to direct. if i might. a couple of questions to the distinguished chairman of the banking committee in connection with this piece of legislation. my chief concern has to do with the resolution trust corporation. the socalled rtc. here are my worries. as i understand it. there are five members. the legislation has row been changed to five members of the oversight board.
i would like to engage the distinguished floor managers of the bill in a short colloquy. the bill  being considered by the senate h.r. 2916. contains funding for a pollution prevention state grant program. this is a laudable and longoverdue program which embodies the goal of minimizing the amount of pollution we produce. this program. as envisioned by the environmental protection agency. should address pollution prevention across all media. including air emissions. discharges to water. and groundwater protection. also. this program is designed to address aher important problem. that of reducing the amount of solid waste that is entering our landfills and incinerators. virtually every region of the country is experiencing a severe shortage of landfill capacity. as a nation we must begin to reduce the amount of solid waste we produce. the pollution prevention program ought to squarely address this problem. specifically by assisting states in identifying. developing. and promoting markets for recycled goods. currently many states and localities are beginning to collect recyclable products such as newspapers. aluminum cans. and glass. however. a sufficient amount of thought has  been given to how to develop markets for these materials once they have been collected. it is critical that the states begin  to reduce the amount of wastes entering our landfills. by encouraging and promoting agressive recycling programs. the pollution prevention program can make money available to the states for an important and specific purpose: to begin the work of expanding market demand for recycled products. recycling as a strategy for reducing solid waste will fail unless there is sufficient demand in the marketplace for goods made from recycled materials. grants awarded under this program could be used for: developing state or regional market development strategies. demonstrating new products that contain recoverable materials or new uses for recoverable materials. expanding manufacturing capacity to use recoverable materials. developing a state program for procurement of recoverable materials. i am concerned that as more states begin to collect recycled materials. there will be markets for the materials. we are already beginning to see evidence of this with the increase of newspapers being collected by the states. this program can begin to remedy this problem. i would also ask that the floor managers of this bill give every consideraton to moving closer to the house provision for funding of this important program. it is my understanding that the senate bill funds this program at $2.6 million. in lieu of $5 million provided by the house. any additional funding above the senate bill amount would make it more likely that state programs to develop markets for recycled goods would be undertaken. i want to thank the distinguished floor managers of this bill. senators miuski and gai. for their consideration of this matter.
if i could ask the senator from oklahoma one question. in his discussion he touched on the c02 emissions and its effects. reaching a socalled cafe standard. the corporate fleet. the senator himself mentioned his concerns about imported oil. my question is. and i am  trying to put him on the spot. does the senator from oklahoma have any reasonable milespergallon cafe standard that he thinks we should strive for. i would be interested in his views on that particular issue.
. i wish to bring to the attention of the senate the recent 200th anniversary of a most significant event in the history of our great nationthe arrival of samuel slater in pawtucket. rl on january 18. 1790. slaters arrival set in motion a series of events culminating in the construction and successful operation in 1793 of th americas first waterpowered cotton factory along the banks of the blackstone river. old slater mill still stands on its original site in pawtucket and has been designated a national historic landmarka fitting tribute. the factory processes that were developed in slaters mill shaped the course of american history. making pawtucket the birthplace of the industrial revolution. slaters mill was a model for the cotton textile industry. its success spurred the development of mill villages along the blackstone and its tributaries in rhode island and massachusetts. the need for a transportation system to serve this area led to the development of the blackstone canal and the providence and worcester railroad. this transportation network. combined with the power of the blackstone. led to the regions rapid growth. this is where we launched the ecoic battle that changed the world. many blackstone valley residents envision a revitalization of this area. one that highlights the cultural and historical resources of the region. i share this dream. and to help turn it into reality. authored successful legislation to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. an urban park without borders along the banks of the river. in addition. i am pleased that the u.s. postal service will be featuring old slater mill on a stamp commemorating the bicentennial of rhode island statehood later this year. samuel slater was truly a remarkable individual. his story represents the spirit of american entrepreneurship. a story whose lessons are just as relevant today as we face the challenge of defining our role in a rapidly changing global ecoy as they were 200 years ago. i would like to recommend to my colleagues an excellent article on slaters arrival in rhode island. marcia greens story was published in the pawtucket times on the 200th anniversary of the occasion. and i ask that it be entered into the record at this point.
. i thank the senator from virginia for amplifying the scope. i indicated it was defense. he is quite right. it goes beyond that. it helps our international competitive position in this field that. hopefully. is going to be increasingly used as a market for american techogy.
. i would like to impress upon my colleagues on the banking committee that a number of important issues need to be addressed next year. along with deposit insurance reform. i hope that the committee will consider legislation similar to the competitive equality banking act that was approved by the senate in 1987. this bill would have strengthened our nations financial institutions. allowing them to compete more effectively in the world market. i look forward to working with the committee in the future.
. i will ask. unanimous consent that a letter endorsing this amendment from mr. robert m.. fenner. general counsel of the national credit union administration. dated february 27. 1991. be printed in the recom. l shall just read a portion of it. this 1s to conffrm that the national credit union administration supports your proposals set forth in draft bill s. 419 as forwarded by mr. rogers. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record. there being  objection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the recoan. as follows
. i would like to inform the ranking member of the banking committee that i am interested in offering my bill. the financial assistance to institutions reform act. as an amendment to the pending legislation. the recent collapse of rhode islands private deposit insurance fund has underlined the fragility of the nations federally backed insurance funds. my amendment would help ease the shortterm financial strain placed upon states in which such a collapse has occurred.
i thank the manager for his interest in my amendment. i think it is a good amendment that should be passed along with the rtc bill. but i understand the managers effort  to further delay passage of this emergency measure. the fair bill has been referred to the banking committee for consideration. and i hope that my distinguished colleague from utah will give this matter his close attention at the appropriate time. again. i thank the manager
. this is a modest. yet important. bill that has been endorsed by the national credit union administration and has been reviewed favorably by the u.s. attorney in my state. it builds upon existing law. and would protect depositors across the nation by ensuring that those convicted of fraudrelated offenses will  have the opportunity to return to a career in the financial services industry for a very long time. i hope that my colleagues will take a good look at these modest proposals and join with me and senator pell in working for their enactment.e by mr. bradley (for himself and mr. lautenberg):
. is that homeowners currently do  have a great deal of assurance that radon measurement devices are providing accurate results. the general accounting office completed a report last august which highlighted some of the problems with companies which produce and analyze radon measurement devices. such as the charcoal canisters used to test homes. in summary. gao concluded that many of these companies do  have an adequate quality assurance program. and that the radon measurements they report back to homeowners could have a high degree of error. although epa runs a voluntary proficiency testing program. gao reported that even after companies fail epas test. they continue to market their products. gao recommended that measurement companies: be required to pass the epa proficiency testing program before marketing their devices. and demonstrate the existence of adequate quality assurance programs as a condition of participating in the epa proficiency testing program. the legislation i am introducing today acts on both of these recommendations. and will ensure that important. healthbased decisions are made on the basis of reliable test results. today i -would also like to join my colleague from new jersey. senator lautenberg. in introducing the indoor radon abatement reauthorization act of 1991. this bill will continue the programs at epa established by the indoor radon abatement act of 1988.0 by mr. lautenberg (for himself. mr. mitchell. mr. chaffe. and mr. burdicx):
i wonder if what the senator is  indicating is that there is a lack of vigorous antitrust enforcement. is the senator suggesting they are collaborating. i must say that when i listened to the senators listing of the moneycenter banks. and the interest they are charging on credit cards. it makes a ember is. 1991 pretty persuasive case. i do  k whether the socalled national credit cards like american express. for example. are offering lower interest rates. i have ed that american express themselves seem to be in some trouble as a result of their credit card operations. does the senator-
. there is also in this legislation. a provision that is very important in my home state. as many k. in rhode island. on new years day of 1991. the gover closed down. rightfully so. some 45 privately insured financial institutions. this was necessary because the private deposit insurer had become insolvent. what this legislation does is permit our state to take advantage of $180 million federal loan guarantee. the state would be able to borrow funding from a private lender at lower interest ratesperhaps 300 basis points lower than the going market ratethereby reducing the overall cost to the state. in attempting to resolve this problem that is  affecting 150.000 rhode island depositors. this provision is  a handout. it is budget neutral. i am hopeful this bill can be approved and the genuine banking reform bill can be signed into law. i hope that this bill will  suffer the same fate that the legislation did 3 years ago. the mood around here is that approval of a broad banking bill is an uphill battle. i believe the taxpayers deserve a comprehensive bill that will make our banks more secure. more competitive. and more responsive to the needs of consumers. so i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. i thank the chair. and i thank the distinguished senator from new mexico for permitting me to proceed.
. i join with enthusiasm in support of this amendment. the suggestion is made that it is solely limited to new england. that is  accurate. it applies to many states across the nation that lost socalled tier 1 capital. it is true that many of the states in new england particularly are affected by it. but it seems to me what we are tying to do is to encourage these ones to get some capital into these banks and this does that by saying to the individuals who invest this capitol that 75 percent will be guaranteed. they still take the risk for 25 percent of it. second. when that capital is invested. then these small banks make the commitment to make small business loans. we are trying to get this recession defeated. we are trying to get things going. is there a better way. there might well be. i would hope at least we could embrace this way.
one of the proposals that the senator from kansas made was that these restrictions. or sanctions. i guess is the proper word. that have been applied by various communities and states on holding. for instance. securities of those companies that do business in south africa. the suggestion of the senator from kansas was that it is time to lift those sanctions. i would be interested in what the senators response would be to challenge thatand i am  adopting this argument. but i am curious. and it is certainly one that could be brought up. and that is lotthose sanctions got us all of this.  is the time to keep them on. so that we can make sure that this thing stays on track. and as in the expression. keep their feet to the fire. what is the senators answer to that point.
 this is a modest. but important amendment. it builds upon existing law. and would protect depositors across the nation by ensuring that those convicted of certain offenses will  have the opportunity to return to a career in banking for a very long time. i thank the managers for their support. and look forward to the enactment of this legislation.
. i am maining on the island. for these reahere today to express my appreciation sons. the fws strongly supports the to senator byrd for offering an amend- acquisition of this area. ment on my behalf to provide $1.5 mil- unfortunately. time to find a way of lion for the acquisition of an important protecting this property has almost addition for the block island national run out. the u.s. marshall seized a wildlife refuge in rhode island. this is onethird interest in the beane propa unique area which would soon be lost erty when one of the three sibling ownto development. as i will describe fur- ere was caught growing drugs on the ther. first. i would like to seek a point property. the marshall has been orof clarification with regard to the dered to sell the entire property on the amendment from senator byrd. open market as part of the settlement my understanding is that the amend- of the drug case. in fact the property ment that you referred to in your will be advertised for sale on august 15. only 10 days from today. time is of the essence. if this important area is to be saved. funds must be appropriated this year. in this bill. we can wait until next year. therefore. i am very grateful to senator byrd and the other members of the interior appropriations subcommittee for their assistance in preserving this unique area before it is lost to development.
second. the bill is  intended to resolve the issue of what value may be directly attributed to the -removal of patent restrictions under section 22(g) of the alaska native claims settlement act.  does this legislation require the secretary to propose the removal of any such restrictions.
 but let me say that the senators speaking. on the other side. all of whom are members of the banking committee. discussed the loan guarantee given to the state of rhode island last year. i hope they will stress that that was a guarantee. there was  a penny that was  collateralized in that loan. they remember setting up that loan very carefully. as does the administration. working with it. requiring that that loan be collateralized. to date. it has  cost the u.s. government a penny. indeed. we had to pay interest on it. as the senators on the other side k. to somehow portray that as a giveaway similar to a grant is  accurate. i am  sure they intended to give that impression. but that was a loan guarantee.
. -the regulatory side of this is being addressed. that is. where the inetitutons under thjs jursidctbon---the treasury department and so forthcan make .a change. becaose they are just changing regulations rather than a statute. they are doing what they can. but. as chairma greenspam said last month: these rguisboy actions wi be. hcm. quits helpful. bat legislatlon is required. that is why i am here today. what i am propos n--amd i would like a maction if i night th is  going to be a drawn out affairi bave closem asa cutoff for a small bank. a capitalization of $400 million in assets. this covers 10.000 of the 11.500 banks in america. in other words. if we take a point of $400 million in assets. we are covering 90 percent of the banks.  90 percent of the assets. but 90 percent of the banks in our country. these banks totaled. together. 20 percent of the nations banking assets. this is what i would propose: first. under my legislationwhich i am going to introduce today. and which is cosponsored by senators bumpers. lieberman. wallop. kempthorne. and pnzsslerit does the following: first. it would freeze all new banking regulations until the appropriate agency conducts a regulatory impact analysis and concludes that the benefits of the new regulations outweigh the cost to small banks of implementing and complying with them. that is the first one. second. it would allow banking regulators to suspend regulations that it determines are unnecessary or have the effect of prohibiting small banks from lending to creditworthy small businesses. i k i am giving this rather rapidly. third. and this is one i think the managers are familiar with. currently the loan process for small businesses requires that if collateral in excess of $100.000 is being submitted. that a licensed or certified real estate appraisal is required. what i would do is boost that to $250.000 before the bank would have to go out and get a licensed or certified appraisal. it is my understanding that the u.s. department of treasury supports that. before i go on to the other two final ones. perhaps i could get a reaction. and i k this comes fast. if i could get some kind of a reaction from the managers on this and perhaps a commitment that they take a further look at it. what i would. of course. most of all like. is if we could have a hearing on these some time to address this particular problem of small banks being relieved of some of these regulations. because there is question but the vast majority of small businesses get their money. their loans from small banks. we had devastating testimony before the small business committee on how these small banks are tangled up in these regulatory problems. one small banker told us that 50 percent of his personnels time was devoted to these regulatory problems. that seems high to me. but that is what he said. so there you are. i wonder if either of the managers might give me a reaction to these. why do we  start with the easiest one first. which is the third one. raising the threshold from $100.000 to $250.000and that is  written in concrete. if somebody has a better idea. i would be glad to hear it. before you require a licensed or certified appraisal.
i ^ppreciate that. i mast say some of the most telling testimony i have heard around this senate in quite a while tame before the senate small business committee. it was the president of the american beakers association. you immediately think the president of the american banken association is president of citicorp or something like this.  at all. the president of the aba is a banker from a very small bank in arkansas. very small bank. he was describing the problems that a young man bad who bad character. who came for a loan. and le wanted to buy a truck. you are talking something like an 318.000 loan. and be described the effort they had to go through to try to give this young man the loan without it affecting the balance sheet in some adverse way. i just conclude with the following thought.
 clinton annced changes to banking regulatory policies to provide bankers greater incentive to lend to small businesses. the- small business assistance and credit crunch relief act takes us one step further. this bill provides reasonable relief to bankers and small businesses without endangering the safety and soundness of the banking industry. it directs federal banking regulators to change regulations which discourage community banks from lending to small businesses. it also reduces banks paperwork and appraisal requirements by raising the threshold for licensed or certified real estate appraisals on small business loans from $100.000 to $250.000 and exempting some borrowers from truth in lending act disclosure provisions. finally. it directs regulators to report promptly to the congress on changes in legislation which are needed to alleviate the credit crunch. this legislation does  endanger the wellbeing of the banking industry. this bill does  include some of the sweeping changes that some have proposed which could ultimately result in a disastrous bailout situation. it ensures that regulators do  suspend laws which directly relate to banks safety and soundness. preserving important protective measures necessary to a healthy banking industry. this bill will help provide needed credit to small businesses. allowing banks to make loans without facing needless requirements and regulations. best of all. it wont cost the taxpayer one additional nickel. i urge my colleagues to support and cosponsor this bill. and i hope the banking committee will schedule hearings expeditiously.* by mr. wellstone:
. this is a sad state of affairs. it is a shame that the federal -government has to become directly involved through the 7(a) program to help banks complete their basic function. making loans. this is why i have aponsored legislation to change some of the regulations that place the greatest burden on lending institutions. we -should  have to revisit .sba funding levels each year because we cant seem to get out of the business of building obstacles -to credit. meanwhile. bowever. i see better alternative -than to appropriate new funds for the 7(a) program. small businesses in my state have here else to turn without sbabacked loans. small businesses provide the bulk of the new jobs that are created each year. and to rock the boat  while they are just feeling their legs again would be selfdefeating. i urge my colleagues to support this. amendment. and to join me in support of my legislation -to help address the credit crunch in an even more lasting way. my distinguished colleague from arkansas. -the chairman of the small business committee. is -an original cosponsor of my bill. and i thank him for his support and for bringing this amendment. i thank the chair.
. sad though it is. we will  find the remains of every single american soldier who is iissing in action in vietnam. regrettably. that is true. . the sixth point. what do we gain in the united states from the lifting of this trade embargo. it in mk judgment improves our opportunity to learn more about the mias that are there. that. of course. is the essential point of the discussion we are having this evening. senator smris credentials as being probusiness he set forth. but it seems to me that it is important to remember that this is a tremendous market that exists. we will  lose out on that market by moving forward to lifting this trade embargo. we are  going to diminish our chances for finding out more about the mias there. and it will give us a chance to get across the countryside at the same time to sell our goods. this is a tremendous country. if i asked those on the senate floor today what is the population of vietnamif i would have asked that of myself several months ago. i would have come up with the answer "32 million." just trying to figure roughly. the population of vietnam is 72 million. it is a very big nation. i think it is a nation with which it behooves us to have better relations for a whole series of reasons. our relationship with china. our relationships with all the nations of southeast asia. it seems to me. are affected to a great degree by what our relations are with vietnam. so for these reasons. because most of all and principally it is going to give us a better chance to find out more about the missing in action and. second. that there are markets there which provide jobs for americans. i think we should take this first step a total step.  diplomatic recognition. but the lifting of the trade embargo. which i think is in the best interests of the united states of america and those families who still have that pain and sorrow for some loved one within their family who is an mia. i thank the chair. several senators addressed the chair.
. the sba is important to rhode islanders. i look forward to working with the chairman of the senate small business committee. senator bond. and other small business backers as we work our way through this years appropriations bills and try to preserve the positive contributions of the sba. as further evidence of rhode islanders strong support for this program. i ask that a resolution recently approved by the rhode island general assembly be printed at the conclusion of my remarks. the resolution follows:
as i read the amendment. it is  optional for the bank to participate if the state decides that they want the bank to participate. in other words. as i read the amendment. it says that the state shall work out agreements with the banks to develop a data match system in which such institutions are required to provide every quarter. et cetera. so it is  just an encouragement. it is a requirement if the state so chooses.
i can see this being extremely burdensome for the bank if each quarter they have to come up with everybody who has a deposit in the bank that appears on some list the state submits to themi presume the banks are permitted to charge something for all this.
well. i am  sure it is so simple as all that. it comes up every quarter. four times a year. but i am  on the banking committee. this is the kind of thing that i really wish had gone through the banking committee and let them have hearings on it. and let them k what the costs are and xwhat the problems are that arise under it. i do  k whether anybody else wants to speak on this. does the senator want a vote on this.
. i want to take a moment to discuss the pending amendment. this is really a very simple issue. under the uruguay round the nations agreed to boost protection of patents significantly. this was an historic step. indeed. this was the first time that in these multilateral trade agreements such as this. the gatt. we became involved with socalled intellectual property. in order to implement the provisions of the commitment to increase the protection for patents. the congress changed the u.s. patent law from 17 years from approval to 20 years from filing date. this was a change to conform with gatt. to be fair to existing patent holders. congress gave those existing patent holders the option of taking the longer term. as a result. those holding patents as of june 1985 received an extension of up to 3 years. however. granting this extension affected generic drug manufacturers who had been preparing to go to market after the original patents expired. to be fair to them. too. congress made a compromise: manufacturers who had already made a substantial. investment preparing to go into the market. would be allowed to proceedbut they would be required to pay a royalty to the holder of the patents. this was a carefully worked out compromise. this transition was made available to all manufacturers.  just generic manufacturers of drugs. there are generic manufacturers of blue jeans and every other patent. wherever there is a patent involved someone is waiting for the patent to expire and then come forward with their own product. the product is called a generic product-- just a generic drug. but generic blue jeans. or whatever it might be. however. congress made an error. it is  the first error congress has
. i agree entirely with my colleague. senator pryor. and wish to raise one simple but important point. it should be ed clearly and conclusively that there is an extensive record of evidence from the u.s. trade representative. the patent and trademark office. and the food and drug administration that a mistake was made by both the congress and the administration. there is absolutely question as to this fact. to dispel any doubts. i would like to submit for the record an excerpt from ambassador mickey kantors testimony to the senate judiciary committee on february 27: the congress and the administration did . however. take into account the technical interrelationship between the patent act and the regulation of pharmaceutical products by the federal food. drug and cosmetic act. in fact. oneincluding those in the private sector who watched these developments closelytook this interrelationship into account. this [senate judiciary] committee and the house judiciary committee held a joint hearing on august 12. 1994. to review the intellectual property provisions of the uraa and  a single reference was made to this system. in all this time.  a single reference was made to the fact that pharmaceuticals may be treated differently than other forms of techogy.  even by gerald mossinghoff of the pharmaceutical research and manufacturers of america. who testified in support of this legislation without referring to this provision  . . we did  intend for this to happen and we support the correction of this oversight through the appropriate amendments to the food. drug and cosmetic act and the patent act.
. is i just wish we would. address this matter. both in the committee. and i understand senator brown has been trying to achieve that. but also on the floor of the senate. we have had one vote. it was a onevote margin difference. perhaps peoples minds have been changed since then. etheless. i support the efforts of senators brown and pryor. congress and the administration made a simplebut costlyerror in drafting the uruguay round agreements act of 1994. that inadvertent error is costing consumers. state governments. and the federal government millions of dollars. while providing an unintended windfall to a handful of drug companies. i dont believe we should let that error stand. what happened. the facts of the case are straightforward. back in 1994. congress was drafting omnibus trade legislation designed to bring the united states into conformity with the important new global trade agreement kn as the gatt. as part of our commitment to fulfill our new gatt obligations. the united states pledged to increase patent protection for future patents. in addition. the united states also pledged to boot protection for patents already in existencea key point that goes to the heart of the issue before us today. accordingly. thetrade bill that congress wrote. boosted existing patent terms by up to 3 years. giving current patentholders a valuable extension on their patents. to be fair to generic manufacturers who had been preparing to go to market on the old patent expiration date. congress fashioned a compromise: generic companies who had made a substantial investment in preparing for market would be allowed to proceed as planned. but would have to pay equitable remunerationthat is. a royaltyduring the extended term. this carefully balanced compromise became law as part of the 1994 uruguay round agreements act. however. in drafting this 653page bill. congress and the administration made a smallbut very costlymistake. a simple conforming amendment to an fda statute was omitted. yet the impact was emous: the omission singlehandedly prevented the generic drug industry from going to market during the extended term. the result is that a handful of brandname drug companies have received a staggering $4.3 billion windfall. at the expense of consumers. that congress. united states trade officials. and even the brandname companies themselves. neither intended  expected. the cost to consumers is emous. the drugs that are covered by the windfall are widely prescribed. and are used for everyday ailments that affect millions of americans. keeping the generic version off the shelf for up to 3 years means that amerioansincluding and especially older americansare paying far more than was ever intended for their medications.  only are consumers paying for this error. but so are state governments and the federal governmentin the form of higher reimbursements for prescription drugs for the elderly. veterans. and lowincome americans. this is  right. we made a mistake. we should fix it. in this case. the solution is obvious and easy: simply enact the missing conforming amendment. that is exactly what senator pryor. .senator brown. and iand many others--have been working to do. let me take a moment to put to rest a few red herrings. our amendment would  affect our gatt commitments or our efforts to promote patent protection worldwide. our amendment would  upset the balance in u.s. drug patent laws.  impede research and development of new drugs. if any of these misrepresentations were true. we simply would  be sponsoring this amendment. it is that simple. it is time to correct this injusticean injustice to consumers in our nation. an injustice to the federal and state governemnts that are paying extra and needless sums into medicaid and medicare and an injustice to the generic manfuactures who made the investment in reliance on the law as it was supposed to be. it is time we fixed this unfairness.
i would agree with the senator that the intent of congress is to compensate these landowners. as necessary. for damages due to the operation of the garrison dam using the current fair market fee value of the land. the secretary shall value the land using current fair market rates as if the land has  been affected by rising ground water and the risk of surface flooding. and would compensate the landowners based on this price assessment. the secretary should  value this land at the preproject rate.
. i was pleased to see that the house of representatives incorporated the small business administration authorization bill into the omnibus appropriation bill. this is important legislation. before we go to final passage of the appropriation bill. i wonder if i could get the distinguished chairman of the small business committee. senator bond. to comment on a proposal i have. related to small business development centers.
i wonder if i could get the attention of the distinguished manager of the bill. commerce. justice. state appropriations subcommittee chairman judd gregg. i have a proposal related to. small business development centers. and id like to get him to comment on it.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs be authorized to meet in executive session during the session of the senate on wednesday. october 8. 1997. to conduct a markup of the following inees: laura s. unger. of new york. to be. a commissioner of the securities and exchange commission. paul r. carey. of new york. to be a commissioner of the securities and exchange commission. dennis dollar. of mississippi. to be a member of the national credit - union administration board. edward m. gramlich. of virginia. to be a member of the board of govers of the federal reserve. roger walton ferguson. of massachusetts. to be a member of the board of govers of the federal reserve. and ellen seidman. of the district of columbia. to be a director of thrift supervision.
ms. moseleybraun. mr. terest of the unitedstates to promote secu- democratization and free market ecokennedy. mr. .biden. mr. kerry. mrs. rity and stability with our -hemispheric ics  provides us with aunique feinstein. mr. jeffords.-mr. .harkin. neighbors by engaging with them as equal om ics po idu th ais
 for his signature that did  include the dbe program. this is a gentle way of saying. listen. folks. if you kk out the disadvantaged.business enterprise section of s. 1173which is exactly what the senator from kentucky is proposing to dothen there is going to be a veto of this legislation. i see the senator from utah here. if i could get his attention for a moment. . he spoke against the dbe provision of our bill. but my question is. why pick on the provision in our bill. it is my understanding that similar affirmative action language is contained in some 160 different federal statutes or regulations. the senator from utah chairs the judiciary committeeand certainly he is masterful in that role. with all the great powers that supposedly appertain to the chairmanship of a committeeand thus out of that committee comes legislation he wants and bottled up in that committee is legislation he doesnt want. i ice that the senator from utah  has before him. in his own committee. legislation to eliminate all federal affirmative action programs.  just this program. so i am asking himdont pick on our little program here that we are desperately trying to get through. imagine. here is an amendment that puts the whole bill under the threat of a veto if it is adopted. if the senator wants to debate affirmative action at the federal level. i would say to him. go ahead and deal with that issue in your own committee. dont pick on our program. i cant name all 160 federal afflrmative action programs. but certainly there are small business administration programs and many others that have special provisions for disadvantaged parties. so if the senator so wishes. go ahead and do a generic bill on eliminating affirmative action. and go ahead and have it out here on the floor. but i feel helpless here as you all come forward with a amendment like the one the senator from kentucky has offered on our bill.
. obviously. both of us and all members of the committee want to finish this legislation. there are several hundred amendments still out there. but i have reason to believe very few of those are actually going to be presented. so. we could really make tremendous progress if we could dispose of those "two major amendmentsthe one from the banking committee and the one from the finance committee. which we are expecting to have presented momentarily.
. inadvertently the managers of the bill omitted important language from the transit title. i am grateful to the chairman and ranking member of the banking committee for bringing that to our attention. this amendment has approval of this side.
. i would like to clarify a point that was raised on the floor yesterday concerning an unfortunate event that occurred in my home state of rhode island almost a decade ago the failure of the rhode island share deposit insurance corporation (risdic). some senators have suggested that the failure of risdic was triggered by credit unions getting overly involved in business lending. that is  entirely accurate. the credit unions did  trigger the risdic crisis. instead. the collapse of the system can be traced to a substantial embezzlement from the heritage loan and investment corporation. a type of statechartered bank. in fact. of all the credit unions that were closed in rhode island during that crisis. e was federally insured and e was either supervised or examined by federal regulators. indeed. during that entire period of the socalled credit union crisis. those credit unions that were chartered. insured. supervised. and regulated by the federal government continued to perform flawlessly. despite the disastrous ecoic turmoil around them. so i just want to say again that the risdic crisis was  caused by credit unions. rather. the credit unions were the unfortunate victims of a crisis brought about by embezzlement from a bank.
i wonder if i could get the attention of the distinguished manager of the bill. commerce. justice. state appropriations subcommittee chairman judd gregg. i have a proposal related to. small business development centers. and id like to get him to comment on it.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs be authorized to meet in executive session during the session of the senate on wednesday. october 8. 1997. to conduct a markup of the following inees: laura s. unger. of new york. to be. a commissioner of the securities and exchange commission. paul r. carey. of new york. to be a commissioner of the securities and exchange commission. dennis dollar. of mississippi. to be a member of the national credit - union administration board. edward m. gramlich. of virginia. to be a member of the board of govers of the federal reserve. roger walton ferguson. of massachusetts. to be a member of the board of govers of the federal reserve. and ellen seidman. of the district of columbia. to be a director of thrift supervision.
ms. moseleybraun. mr. terest of the unitedstates to promote secu- democratization and free market ecokennedy. mr. .biden. mr. kerry. mrs. rity and stability with our -hemispheric ics  provides us with aunique feinstein. mr. jeffords.-mr. .harkin. neighbors by engaging with them as equal om ics po idu th ais
 for his signature that did  include the dbe program. this is a gentle way of saying. listen. folks. if you kk out the disadvantaged.business enterprise section of s. 1173which is exactly what the senator from kentucky is proposing to dothen there is going to be a veto of this legislation. i see the senator from utah here. if i could get his attention for a moment. . he spoke against the dbe provision of our bill. but my question is. why pick on the provision in our bill. it is my understanding that similar affirmative action language is contained in some 160 different federal statutes or regulations. the senator from utah chairs the judiciary committeeand certainly he is masterful in that role. with all the great powers that supposedly appertain to the chairmanship of a committeeand thus out of that committee comes legislation he wants and bottled up in that committee is legislation he doesnt want. i ice that the senator from utah  has before him. in his own committee. legislation to eliminate all federal affirmative action programs.  just this program. so i am asking himdont pick on our little program here that we are desperately trying to get through. imagine. here is an amendment that puts the whole bill under the threat of a veto if it is adopted. if the senator wants to debate affirmative action at the federal level. i would say to him. go ahead and deal with that issue in your own committee. dont pick on our program. i cant name all 160 federal afflrmative action programs. but certainly there are small business administration programs and many others that have special provisions for disadvantaged parties. so if the senator so wishes. go ahead and do a generic bill on eliminating affirmative action. and go ahead and have it out here on the floor. but i feel helpless here as you all come forward with a amendment like the one the senator from kentucky has offered on our bill.
. obviously. both of us and all members of the committee want to finish this legislation. there are several hundred amendments still out there. but i have reason to believe very few of those are actually going to be presented. so. we could really make tremendous progress if we could dispose of those "two major amendmentsthe one from the banking committee and the one from the finance committee. which we are expecting to have presented momentarily.
. inadvertently the managers of the bill omitted important language from the transit title. i am grateful to the chairman and ranking member of the banking committee for bringing that to our attention. this amendment has approval of this side.
. i would like to clarify a point that was raised on the floor yesterday concerning an unfortunate event that occurred in my home state of rhode island almost a decade ago the failure of the rhode island share deposit insurance corporation (risdic). some senators have suggested that the failure of risdic was triggered by credit unions getting overly involved in business lending. that is  entirely accurate. the credit unions did  trigger the risdic crisis. instead. the collapse of the system can be traced to a substantial embezzlement from the heritage loan and investment corporation. a type of statechartered bank. in fact. of all the credit unions that were closed in rhode island during that crisis. e was federally insured and e was either supervised or examined by federal regulators. indeed. during that entire period of the socalled credit union crisis. those credit unions that were chartered. insured. supervised. and regulated by the federal government continued to perform flawlessly. despite the disastrous ecoic turmoil around them. so i just want to say again that the risdic crisis was  caused by credit unions. rather. the credit unions were the unfortunate victims of a crisis brought about by embezzlement from a bank.
i get back to the original point made. which was to portray this particular aircraft as being something that was only in the market of short city hops. if you will. . that is what we started out with. there is question about that.  it is a fully transcontinental airplane. it is. to a great degree. in competition with the 747. that is  the way the project started.
. i appeared at the time of the hearings on this bill in opposition to what at the time was a lockheed bill. and today we find ourselves presented with what is termed a generic bill. one that has wide application. there is doubt in my mind that hing is changed. that this is "a lockheed bill." as we get into further debate on it. it will be very simple to ascertain just how much of a lockheed bill it is. for it will be my intention to eliminate the october 1 date mentioned in the bill. which is specifically geared to the lockheed corp.. or it might be possible to make the legislation effective on january 1 of 1972. and then i think we would also find out just how much of a lockheed bill this is. at this time. i should like to repeat some of the comments i made before the committee. let me say this: there are those who will say that the senator from connecticut has within the boundaries of his state a large engine manufacturerspecifically. united aircraftpratt & whitney divisionand that his purpose in arguing against this bill is in order to get additional business for that corporation within his state. of course. my answer to that argument is that i clearly express myself to the point that i would  support any legislation which said that this loan would be all right if it were made with american engines. because to me that is a selfserving variation of the lockheed proposal. but what united aircraft corp.. general electric corp.. and every sound business corporation in the united states has to fear is the time when either a political subsidy or ecoic subsidy is substituted for quality. at that point. quality. for which this nation has been kn in the products it has produced. will slowly but very surely disappear. the problem with this measure is that it does  adhere to the principles of our free enterprise system.  is it nationalization. but it is something in between. the result that would be achieved would be something in between. something very mediocre. in effect. this nation is being asked to conduct business as lockheed conducts business. and when the nation conducts it in that fashion. we end up in the same straits in which that corporation finds itself today. i do  think any man enjoys the role of standing on this floor in what is essentially a negative mission. however. this bill has implications. which. if allowed to take hold. will drastically alter the standards of competition and excellence upon which this nation was built. the free enterprise system operates  only upon the achieving of success. but also. always in the background. upon the possibility of failure. take away the possibility of failure and everything is on one level. and that level usually is one of mediocrity. certainly. the proposal before the senate today is  designed to further the qualities of excellence. and the proposal today does  simply underwrite lockheed. it underwrites. in the broadest sense. national ineptitude. in 1967. lockheed decided to reenter the commercial aircraft market for the first time since suffering heavy losses on the electra prop jet in the early sixties. and. unfortunately. the result was little better than the companys ventures in defense production. i should like to repeat what i said in the colloquy with the senator from colorado and the senator from utah with respect to some of the history behind the proposed legislation. the initial design studies of the l1011 were begun in 1966 around a twoengine configuration having a maximum takeoff gross weight of approximately 265.000 pounds. with the principal design criteria being operational suitability from new york laguardia airport to chicago midway. the engine thrust class was approximately 40.000 pounds. and engines under consideration were the rolls royce rb178. a commercial version of the ge tf39. and the pratt & whitney jt9d. as these twoengine configuration studies continued. more emphasis began to be placed on a design range of 1.850 nautical miles. approximately chicago to the west coast. in early 1967. the maximum takeoff gross weight increased to 300.000 pounds. as a result. the engine thrust requirements advanced to the 50.000poundthrust class. and prospective power plants under consideration at that time were the rolls royce rb207 and the pratt & whitney jt90 engine uprated. then the emphasis changed to a 3engine aircraft with transcontinental range capability. and by late 1967. the airplane gross weight had gone up to 320.000 pounds. because of the addition of the third engine. thrust requirements had dropped to approximately 33.000 to 35.000 pounds. at this point. the engines still under consideration were the rolls royce rb211 and the ge cf6 and a new pratt & whitney engine designated jt18d. comment was made as to whether or  the change from a twoengine to a threeengine configurationand some of the other changes which i will get into in a momentare fair game for our inquiry here this aftern. anything is fair game when the taxpayers are asked to put up $250 million.
i intend to cover that in my later comments. i do  want to impinge upon the time of the senator from iowa. however. i think there is a great difference in the example i have given on the engines in competition between lockheed and other aircraft frame manufacturers within the united states. the competition is rough egh within our own country without adding to it the international market
. i submit to the senate that the track record. as evidenced by lockheed in its mismanagement. in its inability to produce. and in its cost overruns. makes it ineligible to receive the confidence and the backing of the american people. as evidenced  by its request for this $250 million loan guarantee. let me reiterate that although some suggest that the governments settlement of the disputed claims over the c5a contract is too harsh. it would be a harsh oversight to forget that nearly a billion dollars of that overrun will never be seen again by the taxpayers who footed the bill. the testimony of mr. packard raises. for still aher time. the question of whether we. the members of the senate. are willing at this point in our nations history to concede the downfall of the free market system. which is exactly the proposal before us today. i say that because it is my belief that this debate must. in the end. boil down to that question. either we are willing. as men and as representatives of the people of our states. to stand firm against this subtle kind of governmental encroachment. or we must be willing to return home in august and tell those who elected us that they must foot the bill for the inefflciency and waste of those whom they have never seen. because the senate has condoned in law what this nations success has always decried in practiceinefficiency and managerial incompetence. i understand the employment problem: let us be candid on the floor of the senate today: were we  in a period of ecoic difficulty. there would be question in the mind of any senator that a measure such as this should pass--question at all. under any set of criteria. lockheed does  qualify. it does  even qualify to its own bankers. but the question is. are we willing to give up. at a time of employment difficulties. a basic part of the system that has made this country great. in order to achieve some temporary advantage.
. i thank the senator from wisconsin. that. of course. does raise the whole issue of congressional review. it also raises an issue that is plaguing the senate and the house of representatives in our role of a congress that is to act as a representative of the people in making a determination so important to the progress of the nation as to whether those determinations will be made for us. this amounts to $250 million. let us go one step further. up until october 1. 1971. there is a $2 billion pot over which the senate has control whatsoever. up until october 1 of this year. there is a $2 billion pot to be doled out by a threeman board without any supervision. without any review by the u.s. senate or the house of representatives or any part of the legislative body. is this  what has caused us to get into some other problems.  only in the financial area. but also in the area of foreign affairs. and in certain of the domestic policies that have  succeeded. over the last decade in the united states. we have been witness to an overwhelming erosion of legislative power. there are those who might suggest that such erosions are a response to the necessities of modern government. i would  support that kind of reasoning. i come from a small state which has an essenceand has always hademous citizen participation with represenative town meetings. they still exist in connecticut. many times there are those who speak to me and say. "would it  be easier to eliminate the representative town meetings and go to a two- or threeman council rather than to have several hundred people sitting and determining these things." i can show how interest has faded and municipalities have faded under such procedures. believe me. in this country the more camels es that are under the tent. the more responsive government will be we talk of the erosion of power. this is one act of congress that would hand over the responsibility delegated to it by the people to a board of three people. the senator earlier raised the point that this is a $250 million loan. this is  a $250 million loan. this is $250 million from the taxpayers. i would hope that we would run the government like we would run our own affairs. it is said that we are only talking about a $250 million loan that the government would set aside in the eventuality that it would have to be paid. if we do this. we are setting aside to ourselves a responsibility that one individual or corporation could do. this is $250 million of tax-. payers money. it is committed and gone hopefully. it will  have to be paid out. we make the assumption. as any good fiscal management would. that it will have to go. that is what will be voting on. when congress loses this power. it loses the power of the government which rules by the consent of the people. it is trifling matter. if we do this. we do  k what else might happen. the senator from wisconsin has been portrayed as trying singlehandedly to bring about the downfall of the lockheed corp. that is just rubbish. lockheed is  any more important than the basic principles which made this government great. i join with the senator from wisconsin to that extent. that is what the senator from wisconsin is talking about. it is  an attempt to bring a corporation to its knees. such comments are better directed to the managers of corporations. to the ones who are engaged in the sram fiasco. the cheyenne fiasco. and the c5a fiasco.  is  the time to raise that suggestion to those who are the guardians of the public money. it should have been raised to those who were the guardians of lockheed. to those who were selected by lockheed. and  to those who were selected by the people of wisconsin or the people of connecticut because the people of our states are more interested in these broad aspects that we seek to protect on the floor of the senate. one of the most grievous flaws in the emergency loan guarantee act is that it provides for the application of the greatest remaining power which congress possessesthe power of the purse. this bill is. as the very able senator from ohiowho is unable to be with us todaysaid: a financial gulf of tonkin resolution. that is a good description by the senator from ohio.
i commend the senator from wisconsin for his comments. he is absolutely right. mind you this. : i would have objection at all to the lockheed corp.s building aher airbus. even understanding the tremendous overcapacity of the industry. it is a free country. they can go ahead and do whatever they want to do. but  the senator from wisconsin and i and the senator from georgia are on the loan committee of the bank. so to speak. so we have to take a look at the situation of the united states as we invest the money of our depositors. the taxpayers. all of a sudden. when we take a look at the overcapacity of the 747. and see the new l1011. which is going to be in competition with the dc10. immediately we say. "is this a good investment of our depositors money." that is the question involved. it is longer lockheeds decision in the free market system. it is a decision of the government to make as to whether we should guarantee a loan for that reason.
so. actually. if we talk in terms of the airframe. the cost of the engine is fully almost as great quite. but it is a substantial part of the cost of the airplane. so. really. we should  be talking  just about mcdonnell douglas and lockheed. we also should be talking about boeing. since. to a certain extent. the 747 is a competitor. and we should be talking about this european plane. because it uses american engines. and they are all in this competition together. we get back to the point of what is so special here that warrants this type of support for the lockheed corp. i am  afraid for the manufacturers of my state. so long as their products can compete in a market in which quality will be the main criterion by which they are judged. but i will tell the senator what my corporations can compete against. they can compete against either ecoic subsidy of an inferior product or political subsidyeither one. at that point in time. if i concede to that. then the one advantage i feel my corporations in connecticut have goes down the drain. where everything is agreed to or judged on an equal basis of quality and excellence. rather than subsidized mediocrity.
. in conclusion. i k that we will have further discussion on the bill next week. i would hope that senators would permit the senate to dig further into all the facts surrounding this extraordinary request. right . the issue really before the senate is  so much the bill as it is the question of whether we are going to have the opportunity to debate and to set forth to the senate and the country all the facts behind this unprecedented. this very unusual request on behalf of one corporation in the united states. certainly there is a great need by many people and by many corporations for programs by their government to get us out of our ecoic stalemate. the ecoic stalemate in which we find ourselves at this particular time. but i suggest that our energies. efforts. and money can be far better spent on the things we k need doing. and that can be done with the best minds. the best management. the best workers. and the greatest enthusiasm. whether the projects are mass transportation. health. or housing. we k what the priorities are. ody has to stand up and play demagog and consume all this time and all this money in cleaning up the mess of the lockheed corp..  only cleaning it up. but pledging $250 million to that cleanup. this. as i see it. is  worthy of our time or our efforts.
i thank the senator from pennsylvania. i would point out to my colleagues that back in december of 1970. the distinguished senator from nevada had a statement in the congaessional record relative to the direct loan fund. in which he goes over the small business administration direct loan program. he states: the programs set forth in the 1953 actalmost 20 years agowere designed especially to cope with problems which have  only persisted but are of special concern today: the unmet credit needs of smaller firms in periods of extremely tight money. the transition to a more civilian oriented ecoy. the balance between rural and urban areas. assisting less advantaged americans into the mainstream of commercial life. and helping small firms to adapt to new techogy. and therefore to higher environmental and consumer standards. certainly if anything is totally on target in the year 1971. itis that. the sba has a whole range of loan and guarantee programs. but the money available for direct loans is pitifully small. and that is why i am recommending to the senate that we increase the sbas direct loan program. the tight capital markets of the last 2 years have shown dramatically the impact of tight money on small business. and this kind of squeeze. over which the small businessman or prospective small businessman has control. must end. along this line. over the past several years. both in the senate and the house of representatives. we have passed a multitude of programs relative to the environment and to health and safety standards. which though correct have an emous impact on business. it has been tough egh on big business. but almost ruis to small business. the reason why i have mentioned all this to my colleagues this aftern is that small business. in an ecoic sense. represents what this country is all about. small business is  spectacular. and is  loud in its voice. because it is the opposite of mooly. it carries neither the weight. financially  peoplewise. that is the case with big business and with big labor. but small business is as much connecticut. as united aircraft. or olin. or the aflcio. as we face the problems of our nation and the world. let us do it together. rather than at the expense of each other. i think $26 billion is quite egh attention lavished on big .business and big labor. today i request the consideration of my colleagues of the other. 50 percent of our ecoy. that is if we are going to get the whole nation moving again. 
i thank the senator from alabama. it is important to point out. in connection with the comments he made. that some $3 billion is available for loan guarantees while only $37.5 million is available for direct loans. in the state of connecticut. we have for general purpose direct loans by the small business administration. $500.000. that is a ridiculous figure. the assistance that has gone to big business and big labor in my state goes far beyond that. i do  dispute the many other aspects of the small business administration loan program. but here we are talking about the general purpose direct loan program. let us be candid with each other. the senator from alabama is correct. this program has been cut back year after year. so that the small businessman or prospective businessman who finds it hard to get money under mal circumstancesnever mind a tight ecoyfinds it virtually impossible to do with existent funding. in the debate on the big ecoic package. we heard how important it was to give ecoic assistance to general motors. ford. and chrysler. that is fine. but if we have governmental policy in this country that makes free enterprise sense. it should be to encourage businesses that some day might be aher ford. gm or chrysler. that is one of the purposes of the small business program. yet that fact is forgotten and so is the money. i do  dispute the contention advanced by the distinguished senator from th dakota with respect to the need for order in fiscal procedures. on the other hand. there are too few opportunities when we can express ourselves on a matter of such vital concern to the ecoic game plan of this nation. i hope my colleagues would understand -the plain fact of life that funds are  available today in this country to small businesses or those who want to start small businesses. unless we put some financial muscle into it the purposes of the small business administration will be impossible of fruition. listen to the reasons that were advanced in 1953 and see whether they apply to today: the unmet credit needs of smaller firms in periods of extremely tight money. the transition to a more civilian oriented ecoy. the balance between rural and urban areas. assisting less advantaged americans into the mainstream of commercial life. and helping small firms -to adapt to new techogy. and therefore to higher environmental and consumer standards. certainly. if anything applied to the situation we confront today. it is those standards. yet. there is money to achieve our stated ideals. 
in the meantime. the problem is. as the senator from indiana and i have both stated. if we let them go out of business tomorrow. it is  as ifrecent corporate failure comes to mind. but if we were just a corporation that involved only the employees of that corporation. it is bad egh for the employees to be involved. but at least it would  affect so many other corporations. but that is the problem here. we do  worry about penn central. but i do worry about the lines you have coming from the west. and that corporation and those personnel are needed by those rail lines to function properly. it is an integrated network. unfortunately. half of it is rotten and the other half. if it is to survive. still depends on the rotten portion.
i appreciate the cominents of the distinguished senator from massachusetts. i k the interest he has in housing. and i respect the approach toward the problem. but i am  giving away any secrets. the banks are sitting there with a large amount of money on their hands. they are waiting for the borrowing to occur and the interest rates to go up. i think it is misleadingi do  mean that in a bad way. to impute that to the senator from massachusetts. but i say that for anybody to believe we are going to have 6or 7percent money out there. "it just aint so." there has been federal borrowing of a substantial amount of late. and that is the reason.
of course. it is better. if i may interject. than just taking money and handing it over to bail out these bankrupt corporations. here. at least. we are constructing something that belongs to the people of the united states. we are  giving it to someone else.
mir. president. at the government operations subcommittee on reports. accounting. and management hearings held recently on the advisory committee act of 1972. the distinguished chairman of the senate select small business committee. . the emous efforts of chairman nelson to preserve a fighting chance for small business are well kn to every member of this body. one has devoted himself with greater zeal to the task of preserving the endangered species called small business. i ask unanimous consent that the statement of senator nelson before the government operations subcommittee on reports. accounting. and management be printed in the record.
 would submit to the congress comprehensive plans for reforming regulation in five specific areas of the ecoy: banking and finance. 1977. energy and environmental matters. 1978. commerce. transportation. and communications. 1979. food. health and safety. and industry trade practices. 1980. and housing. labormanagement relations. government procurement. equal employment opportunity. and small business. by establishing this timetable for action. the administration and the congress can proceed toward comprehensive reform of the regulatory structure. the approach outlined above is a systematic and deliberate manner in which to attack the disease. it is  a simplistic cure for the symptoms. one of the basis for regulation is ecoic. for this reason i believe it wise to proceed in a fashion which requires that the administration and congress take a look at entire sectors of the ecoy in a composite manner. such an approach limits the dangers of haphazard solutions which create more severe problems down the road. it offers a realistic manner in which to consider how these areas interrelate. overlap. and affect one aher. it also requires that. as we proceed to examine a primary area of regulation. we must consider the subsidiary effects. problems. and regulations which have been created. we have all had tendencies to rush forward with new programs and new policies. the time has come for us to stop. look. and examine the past before proceeding full steam into the future. the bandaid approach to national problems may longer work and what may be needed is the surgeons scalpel. well. i for one do  want to go ahead with radical surgery until i am convinced that there is a reasonable chance of success and recovery. s. 2812 offers a method by which to diage the illness. and judge the proper treatment. i have always been an advocate of a strong. active federal government. as we look around in our own states or hometowns we see the fruits of governments labors. by sponsoring this legislation. i am  suggesting that we eliminate the need for regulation or the objectives. the preservation of our free market ecoy and the improvement of the quality of life are goals toward which we must continually strive. likewise. i am  suggesting that we need more study of the question. the government operations committee and commerce committee will submit the results of their joint effort in a few months and i expect that the legislative initiatives which will be forthcoming will incorporate their recommendations. what i am suggesting is action. we have talked this issue and demagoged egh. by enacting this bill. we bind ourselves to do something positive. where there is overregulation and duplication. let us eliminate and consolidate. where there is inefficiency. let us find out why. let us do away with programs which have outlived their purpose and usefulness. let us streamline and cut bureaucratic redtape. let us simplify and standardize forms and reports. it is true that our government is big. realistically. we can cut its size in half. but we can make it more efficient and we can make big government work better for all of us without making it burdensome.
. the present condition of the u.s. domestic fishing fleet and shoreside fisheries facilities simply can meet the large increase in fishing efforts that will be required in the coming years. the fisheries need to be improved and improved soon. even though there are  several assistance programs for the commercial fisheries within the federal government. they are uncoordinated and ineffectual. for example. the fisheries loan fund has been in moratorium since 1972. the capital construction fund and the fishing vessel obligation guarantee programs. administered by the national marine fisheries service. are clearly inadequate to meet current needs. the farmers credit administrations loan guarantees for commercial fishermen are helpful. but again are insufficient to meet future needs of the nation. new legislation is. therefore. needed to provide the funds and impetus to build our fisheries and today i am introducing this needed legislation. briefly. the commercial fisheries assistance act of 1976 provides: first. lowinterest loans for commercial fishermen to rehabilitate. purchase. and construct fishing vessels and fishery facilities. second. loans and grants for adverse impacts caused by certain federal regulations. third. a commercial fisheries training program. fourth. a fisheries market report. fifth. a new office within the national atmospheric and oceanic administration to properly administer the program. sixth. a report and recommendation on a sanitary seafoods program. seventh. a fisheries board to promote and research new markets for fish. and eighth. a pilot fisheries cooperative service program.
. i am particularly proud to have served with senator hart on the commerce committee. of course. my colleagues are well aware of senator harts intense interest. dedication. and skillful advocacy in the areas of environmental and consumer protection legislation. senator hart. though too modest to take creditfor all his legislative influence. was instrumental in securing enactment of the safe drinking water act of 1974. and in guiding the soontobeenacted toxic substances control act. in addition to landmark environmental legislation. senator hart has focused attention on urban environmental problems. and has worked to strengthen fish and wildlife programs. further. on the issues of consumer protection and antitrust enforcement. senator can match the record of senator hart. as chairman of the antitrust subcommittee. he has fought to insure a competitive ecoic environment. senator philip hart is the kind of man americans want as leaders. more could be asked by any nation than that there be more such men in her future.
. i rise in support of s. 1442 as reported by the senate select committee on small business. it represents the senates intention to effectuate responsible oversight of the small business administration.
. rice packaging. inc.. ellington. conn. mr. rice founded this company just 10 years ago. the firm provides a complete service for merchandising a product. including a survey of needs. marketanalysis. and the packaging of the product. i am pleased to join with the small business administration in hoing mr. rice and the designees from the other states. for their achievements.
. in my capacity as ranking miity member on the senate select committee on small business. i have had the opportunity to discuss the capital formation problem confronting our nations small- and mediumsized businesses with numerous persons. the breadth of the problem has become all too obvious to me. according to figures compiled by the securities and exchange commission (sec) there were 698 underwritings for companies with less than $5 million in assets in 1969. however. only 80 companies of that size made public offerings in the 4 years from 1974 to 1977. the offerings in 1969 raised almost $1.5 billion. whereas the offerings from the 4year period combined to produce merely $415 million. equally disturbing is the decline in the number of corporations. of all sizes. making firsttime public offerings. in 1972. 633 unseasoned corporations went public and raised nearly $1.7 billion. however. there were only 93 initial offerings in the 3year p.eriod from 1975 to 1977. and these firsttime offerings raised just $388 million. the situation is  improving. as shown by the fact there were only two initial offerings during the first 4 months of 1978. and these raised merely $2.7 million. however. despite these dire statistics. some small business concerns are able to realize the dream of taking the company public. one such company is paradyne corp.. a small. hightechogy company. the experiences of paradyne. which exemplify those of other small businesses which desire to grow. were chronicled in an article in the new york times. because i feel that it is important that my colleagues are aware of the problems encountered by small companies trying to raise equity and the need for correctiv.e legislation. i ask that this article. "going public: a dream fulfilled." be printed in the record.
furthermore. despite his experience as legal counsel to an investment company. stewart allowed comac to serve as investment adviser to creative for a period in excess of 1 year without a written contract. that is relative of the law. as there was written contract between comac and creative. we are  talking about someone with expertise in this field. we are talking about a man who was a chief executive officer after he was an attorney who was an "expert" in sec law. the failure to have a written investment advisers contract is one of those "technical" violations which many people might be able to plead as an excuse. but ial inee. aher standard is applied.  i do  care if the vote in committee was 8 to 1. i do  care if every small business group says. "we want this guy." they say that. because they want him in their pocket. i do  want him. and i do  think the american people want him on the basis of the kind of record which has been compiled. in the committee hearings on the ination. the present administrator. mr. weaver. who i gather is among us here this morning. and i took part in the following dialog: senator weicker. mr. weaver. it appears that the sba felt that  only could mr. stewart  run an sbic. but he had "lousy judgment." would you like to comment. at this time. on the evaluation of mr. stewart by officials in the small business administration.
we are  here to judge the 85percent owner. we are here to judge the president of the corporation who had a fiduciary duty to all of his stockholders. both 85percent holders and 15percent holders. all i can assume from this is what i alluded to during the course of my earlier statements: my concerns are that mr. stewarts allegiances are going to be a few and  to the many. again i want to repeat that is speculative. what is  speculative is the description of mr. stewarts conduct by his peers at the time that he was in the position of chief executive officer of creative. i would also like to quote from a memorandum from the sec new york regional office to the sec division of enforcement. dated december 11. 1973. this memorandum concerned an offer of settlement by mr. stewart in connection with the administrative proceeding brought against him by the sec. i quote: we have never suggested that stewart was seeking any direct monetary gain by his actions. but it is very likely that he was motivated by a desire to insure his positions in creative. which were controlled by the principal wrongdoers in the parsons group. the senator from wisconsin. along with many of mr. stewarts proponents. has relied heavily on statements from various interest groups. he has cited those interest groups here today. i would like to quote from a letter dated may 26. 1978. addressed to me. from james d. "mike" mckevitt. washington counsel for the national federation of independent business. in this letter. in commenting on the sba office of advocacy. which stewart would head if confirmed. mr. mckevitt observed that small business must be able to "rely on its own advocate within its own federal agency for a degree of reason and political independence." how is mr. stewart. who was "manipulated" by mr. parsons and let parsons make all the important decisions in an attempt to retain his position in creative. going to provide the "degree of reason and political independence" that is required of the chief counsel for advocacy in light of the record.
would the distinguished senator from wisconsin care to comment on the conclusion of the securities and exchange commission in their allegation that stewart "willfully engaged in. and willfully aided and abetted acts and practices constituting gross misconduct or gross abuse of trust or breach of fiduciary duty." that is  my judgment. it is the secs judgment. would the senator care to comment on that.
. i should like to address myself to the issue of trust that has been raised by the distinguished senator from new york and. more than once during the course of the debate. by the distinguished senator from wisconsin. i should like to address myself to the issue of stewarts integrity and to the issue of stewarts judgment. it is  my intention either to make charges in this chamber or to speculate or to editorialize but solely to cite the recordthe record as it applies to the issue of trust. to the issue of integrity. and to the issue of judgment. first let me cite the consent orderthose findings that milton stewart himself consented to. and let me read them verbatim. here is the inee about to receive judgment from the senate. here are the findings that he consented to. he consented to findings of misconduct in that. and i quote: by reason of their acts and practices. in respect of the lease by creative of office space at the plaza described in paragraph a of this section. respondents comac. parsons. holmes. kilborne. daugherty. and stewart. individually and acting in concert. willfully engaged in. and willfully aided and abetted. acts and practices constituting gross misconduct or gross abuse of trust or breach of fiduciary duty involving personal misconduct in respect of creative within the meaning of section 36 and 36(a) of the 1940 act. during the period from approximately october 1969 to may 1972. respondents comac. parsons. holmes. kilborne. daughtery and stewart willfully caused. procured. induced. aided and abetted violations by creative of sections 20(a) and 34(b) of the 1940 act and rule 20a1 thereunder. in that in connection with the lease by creative of office space at the plaza described in paragraph a of section ii herein. proxy solicitiation materials and reports were filed with this commission by creative and mailed to its shareholders which contained statements which. at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which they were made. were untrue or false or misleading with respect to material facts. and omitted to state material facts necessary in order to prevent the statements made. in the light of tho circumstances under which they were made. from being materially false or misleading. during the period from approximately september 1970 to may 1972. respondents kilborne. daughtery and stewart willfully caused. procured. induced. aided and abetted violations by creative of sections 20(a) and 34(b) of the 1940 act and rule 20a1 thereunder. in that in connection with the loan by creative to amht described in paragraph a of section ii herein. proxy solicitation materials and reports were filed with this commission by creative and mailed to its shareholders which contained statements which. at the time and in the light of the circumstances under which they were made. were untrue or false or misleading with respect to material facts. and omitted to state material facts necessary in order to prevent the statements made. in the light of the circumstances under which they were made. from being materially false or misleading. this is exhibit 1 in the historical record on the issues of mr. stewarts trust and integrity. a second exhibit is the letter from james t. phelan. sba deputy associate administrator for investment. which concluded that: in view of the violations of the sba regulations and the bad judgment used by creatives management in conducting its affairs. the management of creative capital corporation is hereby admonished for its actions in these matters. in response to a request by stewart for sba assistance to creative. the then acting sba administrator wrote the associate administrator for finance and investment: my inclination still holds--this guy (stewart) ought to be out . . . too much lousy judgment and innuendo for me to buy creative as a well run sbic. again. on the issue of the sec and mr. stewart. i will quote from the new york regional office sec division of enforcement and its memorandum concerning an offer of settlement by mr. stewart. which was rejected in connection with the administrative proceedings brought against him by the sec: we have never suggested that stewart was seeking any direct monetary gain by his actions. but it is very likely that he was motivated by a desire to insure his positions in creative. which were controlled by the principal wrongdoers in the parsons group. quoting from the hearings. and i remind senators this is in my questioning of the present sba administrator ver weaver: senator weicker. again. i will remind you that mr. stewart was responsible for the management of creative. thus. you are telling me that the sba is  recommending for one of its top positions a man who was admonished for his bad judgment. the response of mr. weaver:
. small businesses need a watchdog in washington. h.r. 11445 gives the necessary teeth and muscle to the advocacy function in sba. i intend to monitor closely how sba utilizes these additional funds provided by committee. the intent of the committee is clear. i trust sba will respond accordingly. the committee has found that an uptodate small business data base is currently lacking. this information is essential if the congress is to make informed judgments on changes regarding ecoic and tax policies. as well as the legislative and administrative areas affecting small businesses. thus. h.r. 11445 provides funds for the development and maintenance of an uptodate small business ecoic data base. which would enable the sbba to accumulate information on items such as the number of business formations and failures annually. the sources and amount of debt and equity investments in small businesses. sales and new orders by small businesses. and data relating to mergers and acquisitions. this information would provide a basis for our federal small business policy. this committee also feels that sba should become more business development oriented. over the past three decades. about 30 percent of all new enterprises failed within the year. while 50 percent went out of business within 2 years. one of the basic causes of this failure rate is the lack of basic management and technical skills. sba should play an integral role in assisting small businesses in this vital area. along these lines. title ii of the bill authorizes $15 million for the creation of small business development centers. these centers are designed to provide small businesses with management and technical assistance. these services will be provided through an extensive delivery system utilizing the resources of public and private college. universities. and community colleges throughout the states. i want to conclude with some comments on title iv of this legislation. during the past 8 months. the committee has held three hearings on the capital formation problem confronting small. growthoriented businesses. numerous witnesses from various fields verified the statement which appeared in business week that "there is considerable evidence that new companies and small companies are  getting money to grow on." in response to the problems caused by the scarcity of equity capital. the committee has provided legislation in title iv of this bill which would facilitate sbic investments in startup businesses and would augment venture capital investments in small businesses. i urge the adoption of these provisions of h.r. 11445.
. the divisions staff would be excepted from the appointment. compensation. and classification provisions of title 5. united states code. governing employment in the competitive service. the commission is opposed to this provision. there does  appear to be anything unusual about the personnel needs of this organization that would justify an exception by statute from the general personnel provisions in title 5. we also object to the provisions that would compensate the deputy associate administrator for management and technical assistance at  less than gs17. and the staff of the chief counsel for advocacy and ecoic research and analysis at  to exceed gs17. all these positions should be classified on the basis of their duties. responsibilities. and qualification requirements and  restricted by this kind of statutory limitation. i am a strong proponent of the need for the sba to become a more effective advocate for small business interests. however. the need for a voice on behalf of small business does  justify the circumvention of civil service requirements.  does it mandate the statutory imposition of pay levels. these are matters which are properly left to the standard governing procedures. my amendment to strike section 312(d) (1) would in way hamper the office of advocacy in performing its function. the amendment would merely keep the operating procedures of the office in line with the operating procedures generally applicable to all government agencies.
that is why i ackledge that the question is a close one. i feel. based on the data before us. that it is probable that ody will be put out of business. when we have the final results of the study at hand. we can make adjustments equitably. . for these reasons i oppose the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from nebraska. however. he has raised questions which merit our attention. accordingly. i think that the small business administration should closely monitor the impact of this amendment on the wiping cloth industry and report back to the congress. should the claims of the recycling industry be substantiated by that report. the congress could take appropriate action.
. i rise to oppose the amendment. i do so. because of the very nature of the description of the duties of the office of advocacy. which is supposed to be independent of the sba administrator. this office is designed to advocate the cause of the small businessman. but is to be totally independent of either the administrator or the administration. interestingly egh. we have here a case of the tail wagging the dog. when you say that all of the ecoic data is going to be in the sba office of advocacy. what about ecoic research for the rest of the sba. what this amendment will do is to consolidate all the ecoic research capabilities of the sba in the office of advocacy. the sba administrator himselfwe talked to mr. weaver last night--is opposed to this amendment. indeed. the amendment belies the arguments that have been made here on the floor. both during the confirmation of milton stewart for the position of chief counsel for advocacy and during the arguments on this authorization bill. that the office is to be an office independent of the administration. how can it be independent of the administration. how can it be independent of the administration when all the ecoic research capabilities are in the office of advocacy. i feel it is absolutely essential that the chief counsel for advocacy have an independent ecoic data research capabilityargument. but i think it is also true that the administrator should have such a capability. i hope that this amendment might be s3 worked as to give statutory effect to what people have been talking about when they have been talking about the office of advocacy. i do  feel that all the ecoic data research capabilities should be in that division of the small business administration. i feel that the advocacy office should have that capability. but i think it is also true that the sba administrator should also have a capability. it is. indeed. for that reason that i oppose the amendment. ver weaver. the sba administrator. has in. cxxiv- 1499part 18 dicated to me that he opposes the amendment.
. i ask the distinguished senator from wisconsin just two questions. first. is it  reasonable to assume that the head of the agency is the one primarily responsible for any effort to coordinate a particular area of activity within one of the departments of his agency. does it  make sense that the head of any agency. in this case the sba administrator himself. should be primarily responsible for delegating the functions of his agency. second. under the system proposed by the distinguished senator from wisconsin. is  the office of the small business administrator dependent for its ecoic capabilities on the chief counsel for advocacy. is that . indeed. a question of the tail wagging the dog.
well. the objection is an administrative one. the amendment would separate the sba administrator. who should be primarily responsible for the functioning of his agency. from the ecoic facts on which he bases his overall policies. . the advocates job is a particular one. whereas the administrators job is to take into consideration  only information from the office of advocacy. but all other aspects of policy. including the wishes of congress and the impact of decisions on the small business community. i have argument at all with the distinguished chairman concerning the necessity for the office of advocacy. i have argument at all that the office has to be equipped with the ability to discern an ecoic base. i have argument that they should be completely independent. but. of course. the independence argument goes out the window somewhere because. pursuant to the amendment. the entire agency would become dependent on the figures submitted to them by the office of advocacy.
i ask the d.stinguished senator from massachusetts how mqny are working on the a.t. & t. antitrust case. how many are working on the ibm antitrust case. these are  political. these are  fraud. these are  whitecollar crimes. thus. it is easy to reinforce ones argument by bringing up those subjects that are closest to the hearts of the newspapers. the population. and even my colleagues in the chamber. however. there is lack of professional help in any of these areas. indeed. there are some 240 additional attorneys in the justice department who could pursue a variety of areas. therefore. i oppose the request. i think we are trying to hold the line. yet. we are  even holding the line. the committee is  holding the line. we are even adding personnel. however. i certainly do  think that the additional personnel suggested by the senator from massachusetts is warranted.
i say to the distinguished senator from new york. that especially on my side of the aisle we are the ones who have been displeased with many of the programs of the fifties and sixties which were governmental programs and provided governmental employment. here it comes down to the philosophy of our own party. if you will. the free enterprise system. that allows business to go ahead and create employment. do i feel that this addresses the critical needs of the nation. i certainly do. and we hear all the time the shortage of capital by established corporations. and by small business in this country. what do senators think the capital situation is for an urban business and for one trying to get started. this is the only way they can get the capital.  i think in the philosophical sense. the governmental sense. and every other way. we took the proper initiative. and all senators here k the truth of the matter. title ii is already in place and is the equivalent of the urban bank proposed by president carter. tell me something. tell me how long it takes to get a loan from any agency of the government. how long do the senators think it is going to take to get from a bank where the authority for reasons of turf protection is split up among three agencies. one will ever get one. i have regrets over what the committee did at all. i am just ashamed that this has to go and especially coming from the democratic side where they have been the ones championing the cause of the cities in the past.  they are left out alone completely. is that what senators want with this cut.
. i rise to oppose the amendment. i supported the amendmont of the distinguished senator from massachusetts on the additional funding for antitrust relative to opec. i was also of the belief that he had an additional 11 positions in the office of finance and management. and i will support him on that one. but on this i think it is an unnecessary $1 million. i think the funds are there to do the job that was originally contemplated. and i do  feel the additional $1 million is going to be of assistance or which will prove to be of any value.
. i am submitting today. together with senators hathaway. chafee. nelson. and moynihan. an amendment to h.r. 13511. the revenue act of 1978. our amendment is similar to s. 3320. a bill which senators hathaway. chafee. durkin. and i cosponsored. the only substantive difference between this amendment and the bill is that the amendment. unlike s. 3320. contains a 5year sunset provision. a detailed description of s. 3320 may be found beginning on page 21632 of the congressional record for july 19. 1978. this amendment is designed to provided the stimulus needed to get the individual investor to participate in the solution of the capital formation problem confronting small and medium sized businesses. pursuant to the amendment. the investor would be given a credit against tax of 10 percent of the first $7.500$15.000 in the case of a joint returninvested in qualifying stock issues during the taxable year. the credit would be recaptured if the stock is disposed of in any way merely soldbefore being held for more than 1 year. the only exceptions to the recapture rule are for transfers of ownership by reason of death or gift. and even in these cases the stock must be held by the transferee until a time more than 1 year from the date of the original purchase. dependents and foreign citizens would  be eligible for the credit. the credit would be available only for investment in common or preferred stock issued in a public offering of less than $25 million by a corporation with a net equity of less than $25 million. the size limitation is derived from a recommendation made by the 1977 task force on venture and equity capital. the term "public offering" includes all primary security issues of stock registered with the sec for immediate cash sale to the public pursuant to the requirements of the securities act of 1933 or regulation a of that act. credit would be granted only if there has  been an acquisition of the issuing corporations stock within 6 months which exceeds 10 percent of the aggregate sales price of the qualifying stock. furthermore. the corporation and any members of a control group may  have "passive investment income" which exceeds 20 percent of the gross receipts for the year. these provisions are designed to avoid chicanery by the corporation and to assure that the equity capital is devoted to active business functions. the joint committee on taxation has estimated that this credit would result in an annual revenue loss of $70 million. i urge my colleagues to carefully consider this amendment when it is called up for debate. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be printed in the record.
. i ask the chair to lay before the senate the message from the house of representatives on house concurrent resolution 739. and that the senate proceed to its immediate consideration. the presiding officer laid before the senate a concurrent resolution to correct an error in the enrollment of h.r. 11318. a bill to amend the small business act in the small business investment act of 1958.
. i am pleased to join senators moynihan. chafee. hatch. nelson. and pressler in reintroducing the small business investment incentive act. this legislation. which provides for a credit for investment in stock of small- and mediumsized corporations. will encourage the participation of individual investors in the capital markets and thereby help to solve the critical problem of providing equity capital for americas small businesses. the small business investment incentive act is similar to s. 3320 which was introduced during the 95th congress. the bill is based on a proposal initially made by representatives of the american stock exchange in testimony before the house ways and means committee last year. it was discussed at length at hearings held by the senate finance committee and small business committee. the securities and exchange commission offered technical corrections so that the language of the bill would be consistent with the federal securities laws and thereby insure the protection of investors. the legislation which we are introducing today reflects the recommendations made by the sec and various witnesses at the hearings. it is imperative that the private sector provide for the nations future employment needs. smaller. growthoriented businesses hold the key to solving these needs. for example. a study conducted by the american electronics association disclosed that the employment growth rates for young companiesless than 20 years oldwere 20 to 115 times greater than for the companies more than 20 years old. according to the commerce department. the nation will require 1.5 million new jobs annually until 1985. smaller businesses. with their capacity to produce new jobs. will play a key role in satisfying this need. yet. these companies are unable to obtain the equity financing they need to enable them to grow and provide jobs. furthermore. small businesses will also be an integral factor in the solution of the problems confronting our nations urban centers. to get our cities back in business. we must have businesses in our cities to provide the jobs which generate the income. financial resources. and dignity so essential for urban growth. mayor koch of new york city testified in a hearing before the small business committee that he was "con:erned about continued high unemployment. particularly in our inner city areaand governments inability to provide a structural solution. it is time that we affirmatively encouraged private investment that is the principal source of new jobs." he urged congress to "help inner city areas to counter a declining tax base by helping our business enterprises. both manufacturing and service. attract permanent capital in order to grow. compete. and provide jobs." ernesta propcope. a businesswoman active in urban affairs testified that. for miities. "the key to unlocking a better life must be found in the private sector." it is important that the availability of capital is facilitated to enable small businesses to play its role in helping our cities get back in business. as ranking miity member on the select committee on small business. i have chaired numerous hearings on the capital formation problem confronting this nations smaller businesses. the severity of the problem has been attested to by an outstanding array of individuals representing diverse interests. their testimony conclusively confirmed that these smaller businesses. which are a principal source of new ideas. new jobs. and ecoic growth. are  able to obtain the equity financing which is instrumental for growth. ecoists have expressed great concern over the expected gap between the need for new investment and the funds which will be available to meet the need. a new york stock exchange estimate projects a cumulative capital gap of $650 billion by 1985. a 1977 study conducted for the financial executives research foundation was more encouraging. this study concluded that the total gap between capital needs and anticipated savings for the next 10 years would be approximately $1 trillion. depending on the rate of inflation. the decline in the number of public equity securities offerings supports these dire predictions. according to figures compiled by the securities and exchange commission. there were 698 underwritings for companies with less than $5 million in assets in 1969. however. only 80 corporations of that size made public offerings in the 4 years between 1974 and 1977. the offerings in 1969 raised almost $1.5 billion. whereas the offerings in the 4year period combined to produce merely $415 million in new capital. equally disturbing is the decline in the number of corporations. of all sizes. making firsttime public offerings. in 1972. 633 unseasoned corporations went public and raised nearly $1.7 billion. however. there were only 125 initial offerings in the 3year period from 1975 to 1977. and these firsttime offerings raised just $459 million. in 1978. there were only 70 initial offerings which raised merely $295 million. aher indication of the difficulty which small businesses are having in obtaining equity capital is that the number of regulation a offerings which were filed with the sec shrank from 998 in 1972 to 158 in 1977. of those regulation a offerings which were filed. the 650 which cleared in 1972 raised $256 million. while the 124 which cleared in 1977 raised only $46 million. as a result of congress raising the limit on the aggregate offering price of securities which may be sold without a registration statement. and the corresponding increase in the size of a permissible regulation a offering from $500.000 to $1.500.000. there were 209 such offerings which cleared the sec in 1978. raising nearly $127 million. although the trend shown by the revitalization of initial offerings and regulation a offerings is encouraging. there is still a long way to go. the scarcity of equity capital has effectively foreclosed most smaller companies from going public. which is the traditional first step for companies on their way to becoming larger ones.
. in a national press club speech. he declared: ... our u.s. attorney general has replaced the postmaster general as the chief political appointee. and we have recently witnessed the prostitution of this most important law enforcement office. special prosecutors had to be appointed simply to insure enforcement of the law. the attorney general should be removed from politics. who did he appoint as his attorney general.-an old political friend. throughout his campaign. mr. carter repeatedly called for a political attorney general. passage of an allinclusive sunshine law. the breakup of "sweetheart" arrangements between regulatory agencies and regulated industries. and demanded that "all requests for special government consideration by private or corporate interests should be made public. and decisions should be made only on the basis of merit." but the record is one of insider deals that made banking easier between friends. this was part of the pattern of financial improprieties that brought bert lance down as white house budget director in september 1977. and lances problems could only be the tip of the iceberg. yes. insider deals. remember those ringing phrases coming out of madison square garden on july 15. 1976. that was the night carter told delegates to the democratic national convention. and millions of americans watching on tv. that american works best free of the bonds of political patronage: all of us must be careful  to cheat each other. too often. unholy. selfperpetuating alliances have been formed between money and politics. and the average citizen has been held at arms length. each time our nation has made a serious mistake the american people have been excluded from the process. the tragedy of vietnam and cambodia. the disgrace of watergate. and the embarrassment of the cia revelations could have been avoided if our government had simply reflected the sound judgment and good common sense and the high moral character of the american people.
. it is appropriate that we are considering this legislation during small business week. i urge the adoption of this legislation to assist the small businesses which are the backbone of our nations free enterprise system.
i move to lay that motion on the table. the motion to lay on the table was agreed to. the title was amended so as to read: a bill to amend the small business act and small business investment act of 1958 and for other purposes.
. on tuesday the select committee on small business held aher hearing on the capital formation problem confronting our nations smaller businesses. testimony given at hearings held last year provided a valuable record and served as an impetus for the passage of legislation in the 95th congress designed to stimulate investment in the equity markets. all businesses. large and small. will benefit from the reduction of the maximum tax on capital gains from 49 to 28 percent. the new graduated corporate income tax rate. which eliminates the sudden jump in tax brackets from 22 to 48 percent at the $50.000 income level will increase the incentive to finance a corporations capital needs through internal operations. the increase on the limit under which regulation a offerings may be made will enable small businesses to raise a greater amount of capital by taking advantage of the reduced costs associated with these offerings. additionally. i am encouraged by the actions initiated by sec commissioner harold m. williams. the creation of an office of small business policy within the secs division of corporation finance will allow the sec to focus on the needs of small businesses in the development of rules and regulations designed to assist capital formation. furthermore. by amending rules 144 and 146. and adopting a new registration form. s18. the sec has taken significant steps to ease the regulatory burden on small businesses. thereby encouraging the accumulation of capital while fulfilling the secs statutory mandate to protect investors. although these measures will help small businesses. congress can rest on its laurels. as documented in the report of the national association of securities dealers (nasd) which was released at tuesdays hearing. the ability of small business to obtain equity financing remains a serious problem that threatens the very foundation of our free enterprise system. william r. hambrecht. chairman of the nasd committee studying this problem. stated thatin 1978. despite the change in the capital gains rate and the new sec initiatives for easier access to public markets. there were still only 58 initial public offerings versus 1298 offerings in 1969. the 58 first time offerings in 1978 raised $214 million. while $3.5 billion were raised by the 1969 offerings.
. the amendment offered by senator stennis is general legislation amending a program authorized by the small business act. paragraph 4 of rule xvi of the standing rules of the u.s. senate provides that amendment which proposes general legislation shall be received to any general appropriations bill. accordingly. i raise a point of order on this amendment in that. pursuant to rule xvi. paragraph 4. this amendment is legislation on an appropriation bill.
. to help to solve the critical problem of providing equity capital for americas small businesses. i introduced the small business investment incentive act earlier this year. this legislation. which has been cosponsored by senators moynihan. chafee. hatch. nelson. pressler. young. and baucus. would allow an investor to claim a 10 percent credit against tax for the first $7.500 invested in qualifying stock issues during a taxable year. this credit would be limited to investments where neither the offering itself.  the equity capital of the issuing corporation immediately prior to the offering. exceed $25 million. this size limitation on the issuing corporation will insure that the benefits of the legislation will go to the businesses which are most seriously affected by the capital formation problem. i am also giving serious attention to a series of recommendations. made by the national association of securities dealers in testimony before the small business committee. for improving the opportunities available for equity financing by small business. however. the vast majority of americas small businesses are  publicly held. as william d. barth. director of industry competencesmall business for arthur andersen & co. observed at a small business committee hearing last year: look for the moment at the typical small businessman. what kind of an individual is he. he is an independent creature who abhors regulations at all levels of government. he is  necessarily one thats looking for outside equity investors. he wants to be free to make his own decisions. he does  want to bare his financial records to the whole world. i am thinking of the real small businessman who is out there fighting in a highly competitive field to make his mark in the ecoy. mr. barth went on to discuss the reasons why an infusion of new equity into a small business is  necessarily the answer to the companys capital needs: for years many have taken for granted the infusion of new equity in a small business as the logical answer to its capital needs. but this is  the form of help which small business seeks. the many studies and hearings which have recently centered around proposals for relaxation of security regulations as they pertain to small companies are. in the view of many. sheer academic exercises. they fall to recognize some very basic premises1. the small business entrepreneur does  look with favor upon selling equity interests. he is an independent creature who despises regulations of all levels of government. he wishes to maintain confidentiality of his financial position and operating results. he does  wish to have others tell him how to operate his business. even though he may need some outside counsel. he views outside shareholders as a threat to his freedom of action. 2. an equity interest in a small company is often difficult to liquidate at a fair price. stories describing the problems of miity shareholders in small companies are legion. with dividends. voice in management and established market for exchange. the value of a miity equity interest may be only one rung higher than worthless. on the other hand. the outside shareholder of a small. publicly held company may find the market for his shares so thin that its volatility hinders prudent monitoring as well as current evaluation of its worth. 3. in what does a shareholder of a small business share. though they may have omcially "gone public." many such small companies are managed in exactly the same manner as when they were privately held. thus. policy decisions are predicated on the same criteria as before. which often is influenced by the tax or financial postures of the principal shareholders. the investor in many small enterprises should recognize that he holds an interest in a de facto closely held company. the legislation which we are introducing today recognizes the fact that equity capital may  be the solution for a companys capital needs. this bill. which is based on a proposal made by arthur andersen & co. in testimony before the small business committee last year. provides for the creation of a small business participating debenture (sbpd).
s last and best effort to restore his authority are in. and they confirm that the only course left to him is to reduce the extent to which he is a national liability. his speech and his actions produced an insignificant increase in his popularity in the polls. the dollar dropped and gold went over $300 an ounce. foreign governments are holding their breath. waiting for the last act. the stock market dropped. and we got a little breadandbutter e from the saudis as a way of telling jimmy they are the only real friends he has left. for which he is foolishly grateful. in short. the world and the nation are underwhelmed. and mr. carters response to it all has been to make his campaign chief his chief of staff. it will  do. it just will  do at all.
. i ask unanimous consent that tim keeney. peter goldfarb. bob wicklund. and geoffrey baker. of my staff. and bob santi and allan chvotkin of the staff of the small business committee. have the privilege of the floor during the consideration of and votes on this bill.
. i ask that the article entitled "many top executives oppose chryslers plea for federal assistance" which appeared in todays wall street journal be printed in full in the record. i strongly urge my colleagues to heed the admonitions of those in private enterprise who believe that the market place. and  the government. is the most efficient allocator of resources.
. as the ranking member of the small business committee. i have become increasingly convinced that many of our ecoic problems could be solved if small businesses were allowed to grow and compete. as the ecoic power in this country becomes concentrated in fewer hands. congress must provide smaller firms with the basic tools to effectively compete with the entrenched giants. i am confident the small business committee will move expeditiously on this proposal.* by mr. huddleston (for himself and mr. ford):
anything is possible at christmas time. since that issue was resolved and the loan granted. the corporation has instituted certain legal proceedings which involved the u.s. senate by virtue of their accusations against this senator. boiled down. it can best be phrased in the terms of one of the lawyers for wheelingpittsburgh steel in an article that appeared in the new york times on tuesday. ember 13. i ask unanimous consent that the article in its entirety appear in the record at this point. there being objecti on. the article was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: i prom the new york times. . 13. 1979]
that is the problem i have. why i want to pursue these votes is that it is a little difficult for me to present intelligent arguments against something that is . i want the chrysler loan to take a definite shape. i do  k whether i am dealing with a lugar amendment. a riegle amendment. a rotheagleton. or what. all of these are substantive changes from that proposed by the banking committee. which is different from that of the administration. all of which are different from those on the house side. i am  pressing the senator to embarrass him. but i am  the type of filibusterer who gets up here and reads the columbia encyclopedia. i try to bring a little logic to what i am saying and i do  k how i can debate something when that something is  before us. that is all i ask.
. we have  even proved out the soundness of the first step and we are running for the second and the third. of course. i suppose the theory is that once you have $1.5 billion invested. you have to go the next step. $500 million. then after that. you can take that loss on the chops. aher $500 million or aher $1 billion. and so on. until we reach the point. as in british leyland. where the investment reaches $1 billion even though the market share drops from 40 to 20 percent. the price goes up and the market share goes down. the cost to the taxpayer soars. but. most important. you have established the precedent to assure mediocrity in management. in product. and in governmental decision. with that comes a system far removed from the one which created a successful chrysler in the first place and which guarantees that in the future. similar success stories will be written. it is my understanding that the distinguished senator from oklahoma desires to be heard on the subject.
. it is the private sector.  the federal government. that holds the key to an effective. lasting solution to our nations urban woes. permanent. meaningful employment.  "makework" jobs. will be created by this proposal. i am pleased that the conferees agreed to double the guarantee level of the 501 and 502 programs to accommodate this new authority. i fully expect the sba to obligate the full amount authorized for this program. as i have mentioned. this piece of legislation is a comprehensive omnibus small business bill which is the result of over 2 years of hard work and hard negotiation on the part of both houses of congress and the executive. as in any such omnibus legislation. there were significant differences between the house and senate passed versions of s. 918. each side was required to accept certain provisions and make certain tradeoffs in order to reach an acceptable compromise. i am aware that one particular house provision which is included in this conference report is of concern to some of my colleagues. the provision exempts sba from making interest differential payments on its disasterloan fund to the treasury. currently. if sba loans funds at an interest rate below the cost of money to the federal government. they are required to pay the difference between those two interest rates to the treasury. the chairman and the ranking miity member of the budget committee have consistently expressed opposition to this provision as an accounting gimmick that hides the true cost of the disaster program. on two occasions they wrote the senate conferees urging that the house provision be dropped. unfortunately. agreement had already been reached on this issue by the conferees. i fully understand and agree with senators muskiz and bellmon on this issue. as ranking miity member of the appropriations subcommittee on sba. i believe this budgetary sleight of hand does merely hide the true cost of the program. it is bad policy. unfortunately. the house hung tough on this issue and the senate receded. i do  believe. however. that inclusion of this one provision is a sufficient reason to sacrifice the benefits which the rest of the bill provides. i urge my colleagues to evaluate the bill and the significant assistance it will provide to small business as a whole. clearly. with our ecoy in its current disastrous condition. we must do all we can to encourage and assist small business in obtaining the resources necessary to survive and to grow and prosper. this bill provides that assistance and encouragement. i urge adoption of this conference report.
. s. 2698 was reported as an original bill from the small business committee on may 14. this bill includes all of the provisions of s. 918 with the exception of those provisions designed to reform the disaster loan program. the committees report on s. 2698 stated: the committee intends to vigorously pursue s. 918 in the senate. however. recognizing that agreement on this pending legislation may require additional time. and in light of the may 15 deadline for reporting new spending legislation to the senate as provided for by the congressional budget act. the committee has ordered an original bill reported. this bill removes all of the disasterrelated provisions that were contained in the conference report and in the february 6 house passed amendment. the committee intends that this bill be available as a reserve in the event that the present difficulties surrounding s. 918 can be quickly resolved. unfortunately. disagreements concerning s. 918 have  been resolved. and therefore it has become necessary to move s. 2698. though i agreed to report s. 2698 without the disaster reforms. i would draw the attention of my colleagues to the requirements of the first budget resolution. as reported by the committee of conference. the small business committees must report legislation which realizes a savings of $600 million in outlays in fiscal 1981. these savings could be easily realized by enacting the disaster reforms included in s. 918. the congress must act expeditiously to enact these reforms. my colleagues in the senate are well aware of the position of small business in this country today. fiscal and monetary policies instituted by this administration have disproportionately impacted on the small business sector. working capital is scarce. and for many small businesses existent. small businesses are filing for bankruptcy in record numbers. much needed management assistance that could avert many business failures has  been enacted. s. 2698 contains provisions and provides directions which are vitally important to our efforts to provide an ecoic climate conducive to small business success. i urge my colleagues to consider the plight of small businesses across this country. and to vote today to provide them with the tools necessary for success.
. i might add that offering this amendment posed a very difficult choice for me. i believe that the difficulty i encountered was shared by other senators. the problem is that with the likelihood of the defeat of my amendment a precedent might be set of putting the imprimatur of congressional approval upon this shabby financial ripoff of the taxpayer. it would put an imprimatur of approval upon this very questionable loan guarantee. engineered by certain administrators and certain others with political interests. because it is true that i probably shall  succeed in my endeavor. but. then. it seems to me that i also have aher responsibility that goes far beyond either winning or losing a vote on the floor of this body. that is to point out what it is that has been done or  done or how the law has been so convoluted for political reasons so that. indeed. it shifts an eventual risk to people who had responsibility for the events which led to the legislation or the necessity to take such a risk. so it is the latter course that i have opted for. there is amount of talk that is going to come forth in opposition to this amendment that is going to be able to hide the fact that the law has been substantially twisted from that which was passed on the floor of the senate and the house. why should the taxpayers of this country. especially in these difficult times. when every dollar is dearly earnedif. indeed. it is earned at all with the recession we are inbe called upon to do what wall street is unwilling to do or the banks are unwilling to do. why. there are those who are going to say. "well. senator. these bailouts never go into default." well. i k. and the distinguished senator from south carolina. who sits on the statejustice appropriations subcommittee with me. ks that they do go into default. we have a $90 million default right wisconsin steel. $90 million. wisconsin steel is a situation very much similar to this. as to who really bore the risk of the venture of the loan. the company is in default. and the taxpayers are going to have to ante up. for those who feel this is merely an academic exercise where the final act will never be played out. i suggest. as far as chrysler is concerned. it probably will be played out. then. when there is security. it will become all too painfully clear that everybody. everybody. will have to dig into his or her pocket to come up with the money required by the act of the loan guarantee board. i want to make certain. before the final nail is in place. that we all understand that what was accomolished on the floor of the senate last december after much hard negotiating and hard thinking is here near the image of what has been created by the loan guarantee board. the law passed by congress and the plan approved by the loan guarantee board are totally separate and apart. i could live. albeit reluctantly. with what was passed on the floor of the senate. i disagreed with the legislation in principle. but i thought at least it was a fair compromise insofar as protecting the taxpayers and the taxpayers money. it gave a chance to the corporation or. more particularly to its employees. because i do  think anybody on the floor of the u.s. senate gives a damn for either the chrysler corp. management or the stockholders or bondholders or their investment counselors. it was the employees of chrysler. and the small businesses which were associated with the corporation. who were given a chance. what has been done here was done as a matter of concern for the workers. fair egh. but what has come forth from the loan guarantee board absolutely tears that law to pieces and enunciates in political terms what we attempted to construct in legislative terms here on the floor. i hope that my colleagues deem it fair to go ahead and pass this amendment.
. i appreciate the concern he has for making the working man of chrysler contribute to the resolution of his own problem. which. indeed. he has to do under the provisions legislated under the leadership of the distinguished senator from indiana. but does the senator realize that. by virtue of what the board has done here. the banks. far from upping their contribution or even living up to their commitments which they had outstanding at the time of the debate on the floor.  that they k the government is going to guarantee the loan. have withdrawn their previous commitments and refused to make any new commitments. was that the intent of the senator from indiana. that the working man should up his contribution while the banks got off scotfree. that is what happened.
the issue. very specifically. is that the word "modify." which was meant to give leeway to the board. has been construed to mean eliminate. i am  sitting here stating that specific amounts must be raised. but i refuse to go along with the fact that modify means eliminate an entire category. the categories are broken down. i repeat again to the distinguished senator from michigan. the first category includes u.s. banks. financial institutions. and other creditors. within this section are new loans. credits. extension of loans committed but  outstanding on october 17. 1979. and then concessions. all the assistance has been lumped into concessions. which is extension of maturity dates. reduction of interest. and so forth. the canadian government is within state and local. and other governments. that is aher category entirely. do  tell me the canadian government was meant as a substitute for the credit line already extended. it is  so. do  tell me that my taxpayers are a substitute for wall street banking houses. that was  meant to be so. we were talking about living up to the commitment already made by the banking community of $159 million which was left on that credit line. we were talking about new money. we had the treasury officials before our appropriations state. justice subcommittee and. aside from all rhetoric. they will be the first ones to say that there is new money here. new money at all. and they had to twist and bend the law because they did  want chrysler to go under. i am  willing to bend the law. that was fashioned carefully on the floor of the senate. and on the floor of the house of representatives. because. indeed. if the senator is correct in everything he says. we should have had a simple requirement of federal assistance. setting up a loan guarantee board. with absolutely categories at all. why then. did we put them in.
in response to the senator from ohio. i do  see how the amendment could have been drafted in any more general sense than what has been done. i do  call for specific amounts to be raised by the various categories. i merely cite the categories which are in the legislation. i do  try to call into question the fact that there has been a reduction in this or that. i am saying that i will  accept the elimination of categories. because those categories were put in there as security to the people of the united states for this rather unusual action. the reasoning for that is shown best in a recent article in fortune magazine on the mazda situation in japan. the author says: a second lesson is that once washington steps out front as risk taker. all the other parties run for whatever cover can be found. in the end the banks did . as promised. extend new loans to chrysler. instead. they cut their existing lines of credit. their main concession was deferring interest payments. the treasury department described this as "the ecoic equivalent" of new loans. but it is money that the banks would probably have had to write off entirely were it  for the government bailout. what we were trying to do. those of us who were fashioning legislation in the chamber. was to get maximum security to the taxpayers who ultimately will have to foot the bill if chrysler goes under. this obviously has been torn out of the bailout plan as structured by the board. i wish we could somehow draft the amendment so that we would get the board to act in a more responsible fashion. i have further suggestion other than that contained in the amendment: it is as general as i can get.
. the senate bill included an amendment offered by the distinguished senator from pennsylvania. mr. schweiker. concerning the small business development center program included in title ii. i believe the conference report which we are considering retains the thrust of that amendment. it clearly states that small business vendors. including private management consultants. private labs and engineers must be utilized by an sbdc in delivering management services to small business.
 the senator is being precisethe first line. the first linea fulltime staff. including a staff director. the way i read that is that if you want to have a fulltime staff of one staff director. that is fine. other personnel. that is fine. i do  see it as gutting the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania. probably a basis for more substantive disagreement would be the second section. but as to the first section. the staff of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania was  that interested. in the conference. in seeing that part of his amendment adopted. they were glad to see us adopt what was. in effect. the house position. so i do  see that much difference as between the first portion of the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania and that which was adopted by the conference report. if there is any expert on words and how they can be utilized in the senate chamber. it is the senator from california. i ask the senator from california this question: the senator from pennsylvania states that the conference report language which states that "a small business development center shall utilize and compensate as one of its resources qualified small business vendors" means that they could only turn to it once a year and they would be in good shape. with respect to the language of the senator from pennsylvaniathat isthe assistance provided by small business development centers as described in this subsection shall. to the extent practicable and feasible. be provided by qualified small business vendors. if ever there were weaselly language that would enable an institution to avoid the private sector. it is that language. all you have to do is to say it is  feasible and practical. and you do  have to go at all to the private sector. so. much as i appreciate the senators interpretation of the words. the fact is that what we were trying to achieve was a genuine compromise between the trust of what he was advocating- that is. that the private sector should be a part of this processwhile at the same time recognizing the universitys side. the governments side. should also be a part of this process. but the senators words in his original amendment do  glue it into the private sector. it means the private sector could be avoided entirely. when the senator says it was gutted. i admit it was modified. as any conference results in compromise and modification. but it was  intended to gut the thrust of what the senator was advocating
when we go in conference we have quite a few matters at issue. that is. the bill itself. which was hung up for 2 years. a matter of accounting for the disaster loan funds or rather the interest rate on them which has been hung up for 1 year. it is too bad we can all get 100 percent of what we want in this chamber. about 95 percent was achieved in that conference. i would say probably at least in the most conservative phraseology 40 or 50 percent probably according to the senator from pennsylvania. 50 or 60 percent according to me. of his amendment. i k what the problem is. it is that the nfib and a few lobbyists do  want any small business development centers at all. all right. fair egh. let us put that issue then right up front. let us  come sort of slithering through the smokescreen here that the words are  exactly as we had them in the chamber. since when do words come back from conference exactly as we had them in the course of the amending process. i think both in terms of the concept of free enterprise and small business it is  going to hurt anyone to have competition between whoever offers these services. whether they come from the academic sector. the government sector. or the business sector. but certainly what the senator from pennsylvania tried to achieve in his amendment was to point the way. if you will. through the private sector. that thrust remains in the agreement is. indeed. it was embodied in the amendment here in the chamber. so i hope that we will reject the recommit motion of the senator from pennsylvania. incidentally. i have hing further on this matter and i do  k what everyone plans to do. but certainly any time senators feel like they wish to vote. let us vote.
. to help to solve the critical problem of providing equity capital for americas small businesses. i introduced the small business investment incentive act earlier this year. this legislation. which has been cosponsored by senators moynihan.
. small business can account for a large part of u.s. exports and play a major role in improving ecoic conditions in this country. the contributions of small business to productivity. employment. and new techogies is well documented. we must  continue to rely on a few large firms to carry american products to the world. s. 2620 provides the impetus for new. more positive and responsive government programs to aid the small exporter. i urge my colleagues to act favorably on this legislation and hope our colleagues in the house. seeing our resolve to aid small exporters. will move expeditiously so that this legislation can be enacted prior to adjournment of the 96th congress.0
. this amendment would provide funds for implementation of two conferences which the sec is required to conduct pursuant to the provisions of public law 96477. this amendment is necessary because the legislation that mandated the conferences was  passed by the senate until september 25 of this yearafter the statejustice appropriations subcommittee had considered the secs fiscal year 1981 budget needs. on numerous occasions. on the senate floor and elsewhere. i have discussed the serious capital formation problems confronting our nations small- and mediumsized businesses. it is  necessary to again at this time reiterate these points. except that it is important to e that sec regulations have been frequently cited as an impediment to raising capital. title v of public law 96477 directs the sec to convene two separate conferences to provide a framework and forum to study and resolve the capital formation problems of small- and mediumsized businesses. one conference is designed to carry out policy effectuating greater uniformity in federalstate securities matters. the other conference will bring together other federal agencies. state securities commissions. representatives of small business organizations. professional organizations. and the investment community. to undertake an ongoing review of the financing of small businesses. section 503 of public law 96477 specifically directs the sec to study. in consultation with the sba. the capital formation needs. problems. and costs involved in small businesses raising capital. this research and the studies and reports prepared. will be key to insuring that the conferences are most productive. i would expect that these research studies will be circulated prior to the conference. so that. the conferences can be hardhittine. productive discusslons of the current capital formation problems facing the small entrepreneurial sector of the ecoy. section 505 of public law 96477 mandates that the sec bring toeether federal and state securities authorities at an annual conference and through regional meetings. one of the prime targets of these meetings would be to 29336 co resolve many of the excessive and often conflicting regulations that exists between the federal regulations and socalled state "bluesky" laws. the intent is to promote collaboration on such projects as standardization of forms. elimination of duplicative forms. duplication in clearance procedures and the development of uniform small business exemptions. all of which add substantially to the costs incurred by small businesses raising capital through the securities markets. these conferences would advance the common desire among all parties to improve the effectiveness of regulation while reducing its overall costs. in order to carry out the missions of title v. i am offering this amendment to add $750.000 to the sec appropriations for fiscal year 1981. although. the planning of these conferences are only in the initial stages. the sec. however. has informed my staff that this level of funding would be appropriate for the commission to meet the goals of title v of the small business securities act of it is expected that the commission will use these funds to provide for the participation of the broadest spectrum of interested organizations. government agencies and grassroot businesses concerned with various aspects of capital formation. in my view. federal and state regulators can all benefit from regular and systematic consultation. that consultation is long overdue. that is precisely what this legislation is designed to provide and what my amendment will insure.
. i commend the distinguished senator from georgia on his amendment. especially at this time. when. indeed. capital is hard to come by so far as american small business is concerned. and especially at this time when capital for small business in the urban areas of this country is hard to come by. i hope that the senate will pass this amendment. it is of assistance both in the matter of employment and the matter of expansion of business within our cities. the mechanism has proved to be emously successful up to this point. what is  needed is additional funding support by the government. i hope the amendment will pass.
. i rise in support of passage of h.r. 6626 as amended. the first section of this bill is identical to the senate small business committees reported legislation and simply raises the maximum amount of an sba bank guarantee loan for $500.000 to $750.000. in 1976. congress statutorily imposed a ceiling of $500.000 on the amount of a loan sba could guarantee for a small business. since that time. the basic cost for small businesses continuing to do business has skyrocketed while important sources of capital have dried up. the cost of borrowing has soared. and inflation has increased more than 30 percent. small businesses traditionally have a difficult time obtaining necessary capital in sufficient amounts to keep their operations moving. and the small business sector is disproportionately impacted by the effects of inflation. if we are to continue to endorse the essential role of small business in making our ecoy strong. congress must act to give small business the necessary tools to survive and grow. the second part of the bill as amended increases the level of the small business administrations development company program from $115 to $300 million. through sbas local development programs. the private sector is utilized to its fullest to bring meaningful employment. capital. and industry to our inner cities. the senate recently recognized the funding need of the section 503 local development program. when during consideration of the state. justice. commerce appropriations bill. it voted to establish $400 million in guaranteed authority for this program alone. a $250 million level was agreed to in conference. the bill offered today addresses the same problem and simply increases the funding level for all the sba development company programs to $300 million. this funding level is essential to insure that the private sector.  the government. remain the key to offering an effective. lasting solution to our nations urban ecoic woes. the final section of the bill as amended increases the funding level of the sba pollution control program from $110 million to $250 million. through this program. sea is allowed to issue guarantees for qualified businesses for acquisition of pollution control facilities. this program has been highly successful. and through fees collected on the guarantees. sea has built up a substantial revolving fund to cover potential losses. because of the demand for this program which has exceeded all expectations. the program ceiling will soon be reached. and if the ceiling is  raised. this highly successful and needed program will in effect have to be shutdown until the next fiscal year. i urge my colleagues to take swift and positive action in passing this essential legislation.*
. the senate select committee on small business will conduct a hearing on the small business administrations 8(a) pilot procurement program. the hearing will begin at 10 a.m.. on january 23. 1981. in room 424 of the russell senate office building.
. i ask unanimous consent that the following members of the staff of the select committee on small business be allowed the privilege of the floor during the introduction of the omnibus small business capital formation act of 1981:- robert j. dotchin. james j. oconnell. alan l. chvotkin. and thomas cator.
. i would like to annce that the senate select committee on small business will hold a hearing on the role of small business in the nations ecoic recovery. the hearing will begin at10 a.m.. on march 9. 1981. in room 424. russell senate office building. for additional information please contact mr. james oconnell of the committee staff at 224-
 to proclaim the week of may 1016. "national small business week." the nation is  beginning the tremendously complex and difficult task of establishing a course of ecoic recovery. this effort requires the participation and contribution of all our people. small businesses. though burdened by regulations. racked by inflation. and severely hampered by a discriminatory tax policy. are doing their part. the goals of any successful ecoic recovery program must be to improve productivity. encourage ination. and spur increased employment. in spite of the ecoic problems they face. small businesses have consistently been the leaders in those areas. small business regularly accounts for about half of u.s. total output. virtually all new private sector jobs. and nearly half of all ination. these outstanding small business people are the embodiment of the entrepreneurial spirit that has made our free market system grow. there is every indication that that spirit and that tradition of contribution will continue to thrive. given the proper incentives and relieved- of existing ecoic roadblocks. small business has the greatest potential for reaching the desired objectives of our ecoic recovery. the small business machine shops. the local realtor. the grocer or the druggist. the hightech firm working out the answers to tomorrows problems may. taken alone. seem an insignificant piece of our nations ecoic recovery. taken together. as the small business ecoy. they are the key to our ecoic future. indeed. the health of our ecoy depends on the health of small business. i am  here today to ask for congressional initiatives to keep small business healthy. that work has already begun. through capital cost recovery measures. tax reforms. and incentives. s. 360. which i introduced here last month. seeks to alleviate some of the pressing problems and inequities currently stifling small business.  today i am here to ask that we give small business support of a different kind.  more than ever. i believe it is important that we as a nation demonstrate our recognition and appreciation.  only of the contributions small business has made in the past. but of those it will make in the crucial years ahead. by proclaiming the week of may 1016. "national small business week." we can focus our attention on those contributions. and recognize the even more outstanding accomplishments of small business men and women to our ecoy. to our communities. and to our lives.*
. i would like to annce that the senate select committee on small business will hold a hearing on the ination of michael cardenas to be administrator of the small business administration. the hearing will begin at 10:30 a.m.. on march 23. 1981. in room 424. russell senate office building. for additional information please contact michael haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. as chairman of the small business committee. i rise in support of this resolution. i would like to thank the joint leadership for their support and cooperation in this effort to change the status of the small business committee. although the small business committee has had all of the powers and authority of a standing committee of the senate since it acquired legislative authority in 1976. it has continued to be labeled a "select" committee. by taking this action today. the senate is sending a clear signal to the american people that the problems of small business are  to be iged or forgotten. but that small business and its advocate. the small business committee. are here to stay. this resolution in way alters the committees current authority or jurisdiction. and will have impact on the ability of any committee member to serve on this. or any other committee in the senate. today. as the small business committee takes its rightful place among the standing committees of the senate. is a truly significant and longawaited day for small businesses across this nation.
. i have had the opportunity to meet with  of two regional offices of the small business administration in california. and was appointed a delegate to the white house conference on small business. i look forward to working with mr. cardenas in reshaping the small business administration. i urge the senate to act quickly and affirmatively on this ination.*
. the committee on small business will hold full committee hearings on april 27 and 28. 1981. on the small business administrations contracting procedures and personnel policies. at 10 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. for additional information. contact marc smolonsky or mike haynes at 2245175.
. the senate committee on small business will hold a full committee hearing on may 5. 1981. on the small business administrations size standards proposals. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 4232 of the dirksen senate office building. senator hatch will chair the hearing. for further information. contact kimberly elliott at 2245175.
. the ination problem is a complex one. over the past several years. research by the small business committee has shown that small businesses provide more than half of all major inations. small firms traditionally produce up to 24 times more inations per r. & d. dollar than larger companies. the ratio of inations to sales is onethird greater in small hightechogy companies than in larger ones. and the cost per r. & d. scientist (phase i and id and private capital pays is about half as much. for the commercial applications of the big businesses. on the other hand. are research (phase ii). increasingly reluctant to begin  work implementation of the program would on ination. william ris. chairman call for each qualifying agency to set of the board of control data corp.. aside 1 percent of its total. annual ackledged this reluctance at a recent r. & d.budget for small business. it would conference on techogical ination be phased in over 3 years to allow agensponsored by the national govers ces ample time to prepare their proassociation. as he put it: grams and to make whatever organizamany big corporations. with their vast re- tional adjustments ure necessary. each sources and well established markets. are for agency would select its own research the most part avoiding risks and are pri- topics. conduct its own periodic solicitamarily increasing profits by emphasizing im- tions. and make its o.n awards. provements in existing products. the rising the small business administration cost of ination. investor pressure for im- would play a significant role in the overmediate earnings and greater uncertainty of sigh an unstable ecoy have increased the tendency of large corporations to avoid the release of program solicitations and risks associated with truly major inative monitoring the awarding of grants. the products ur services. sba in turn will report to the small business committee. which will take an clearly then. big business is  going active part in seeing that the program is to provide the answer to our productiv- implemented fully and correctly. ity/ination problem. the solution the program would require addimust be to somehow make it possible for tional federal money. rather. it would smaller firmswhich have already use our limited r. & d. funds in the way shown they can provide more than their most likely to result in tangible ecoic share of ideas. at a lower costto pick benefits. i believe it is uniquely suited to up the slack. our current needs since the lions share while many small. iative com- of the federal grant is partially continpanies are clamoring to try out their new gent on a show of interest by the private ideas. they are face dwith the problems of sector. and private capital bears the raising sufficient private capital to begin. greater cost of production and commerbecause high techogy concerns- cialization. which have a far greater need for outside if enacted. this legislation would definancing than other businessesare velop the largely untapped potential of perceived as a highrisk venture. inves- our existing small. hightechogy cortors are often unwilling to fund them. panics. and help get new techogies although some of these firms have re- into the marketplace. cently been more successful in attracting in japan. research and development is capital. many still go begging. already a top priority. that countrys our bill attacks this problem by creat- ministry of international trade and ining legislation that would require fed- dustry recently said that japans future eral agencies with r. & d. budgets over ecoic security will be achieved $100 million to establish a small busi- through techogical ination. it furness ination research (sbir) pro- ther recommended that the government gram within their agency. this pro- increase its r. & d. budget consistent grams purpose would be to enable small with a longterm vision for techogical firms to develop new products and pro- development. while japan formerly borcesses that fall within areas of national rowed. applied. and improved upon imneed as designated by the agency. the ported techogiesmany of them sbir concept is modeled after the highly americanit is  planning to develop successful national science foundation its own. small business program. which provides we must begin  to do the same. for threephased funding of small. high- the small business ination research techogy firms. this funding would act affords us a unique opportunity to do take place as follows: just this. while the program envisioned phase i in this bill will greatly assist federal small business concerns would be in- agencies in meeting their. r. & d. objecvited to submit to an agency research tives.it will also do much more. by using proposals concerning that agencys our most efficient resourcethe small. r. & d. objectives. of the proposals sub- highteqhogy firmto develop new mitted. those judged by the agency to be products and processes. the program will most promising would be funded up to bli an vtes well osot $50.000 to determine if the research is a whole. technically feasible. phase i by mr. cranston (for himself if the initial research proves success- and mr. hayaeawa): ful und the idea appears workable. addi- .. 883. a bill to authorize the secretional funding eanging from $100.000 to tary of the army to construct improve$500.000 would be provided. phase ii pro- ments on redbani and fancher creks posals that have attracted the attention calif.. to the committee on enviro outside. private capital are given ment and public works. special consideration in the evaluation improvements on reosank and fancher process. hase ii actual prodiuction is financed by private capital. in summary. the government pays for the research on the federal objectives
. the subcommittee on ination and techogy of the small business committee will hold a hearing on may 1. 1981. on 8. 881. the small business ination research act of 1981. the hearing will convene at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. for additional information. contact anne sullivan at 2245175. senator rudman will chair the hearing.
. on thursday. may 7. 1981 the committee on small business will hold a full committee hearing on the small business administrations pollution control bond guarantee program and 8. 580. a bill to increase the funding levels for the program. the hearing will convene at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 russell senate office building. senator hayacawa will chair.
mir. president. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the hearing previously scheduled by the subcommittee on ination and techogy of the small business committee on l. 881. the small business ination act of 1981. has been rescheduled for wednesday. may 13. 1981. at 9:30 a.m. in room 424. russell senate office building. senator rudman will chair the meeting. for further information contact anne sullivan of the small business committee at 2245175.
 is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation designating the week beginnine may 10. 1981. as "national small business week". and calling on the peoole of the united states and interested groups and organiza. tions to observe such week with anpropriate ceremonies and activities. in recognition of the achievements and contributions which small business men and women have made to american society.
.* i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold. a full committee meeting on may 21. 1981 to consider cost saving legislation pursuant to senaite concurrent resolution 9. the meeting will convene at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 of the russell senate ofiee building. for additional information contact brian hartman at 2245175. select commrrree on indian affairs
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on the deterioration of the u.s. defense industrial base. the hearing will be on tuesday. july 14. 1981. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. for additional information contact jim o connell of the committee staff at 224-
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the subcommittee on advocacy and the future of small business of the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on government competition with small business. the hearing will be on wednesday. june 24. 1981. at 10 a.m. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. senator hayakawa will chair the hearing. for additional information contact kim elliott of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public. that the subcommittee on ination and techogy of the senate small business committee will hold 2 days of hearing. tuesday. july 7 and wednesday july 8. to continue its review of s. 881. the small business ination research act of 1981. the hearing will convene at 9:30 a.m. on both days in room 424 of the russell senate office building. senator rudman will chair. for additional information contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2245175. or andy peterson of senator rudmans staff at 2245371.
 and is  serving in the capacity of inspectorgeneraldesignee. in the years since mr. boucher came to the small business administration. he has impressed the committee with his dedication and hard work in attempting to make the sba a more effective and more tightly run agency. i might add that this is easy task. for years. the sba has been a muchmaligned and troubled agency. plagued by poor management and a steadily growing list of programs and problems. it is the hope and intent of the small business committee that this perception of the agency will change. as the inspector general. mr. boucher should play a key role in effecting that change. based on past experience. i am confident that mr. boucher has the qualities necessary to perform this difficult task. he has shown that he is prepared to take the steps that need to be taken to clear up a problem and that he can do his job with toughness. independence. and professionalism. it is without hesitation that i endorse his reappointment to the post of inspector general for the sba.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the hearings scheduled by the subcommittee on ination and techogy of the small business committee for july 8 and 9 have been reschediuled for july 15 and 16. 1981. the purpose of these hearings is to allow the subcommittee on ination and techogy to continue its review of 5. 881. the small business ination research act of 1981. the hearings will convene on both days at 9.:30- am. in room 424 russell senate office building. for additional information contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the senate small business commnittee will hold a full committee ftold hearing on july 24. 1981 in san francisco. calif. this will be a continuation of hearings that the committee has held to receive testimony concerning s. 881. the small business ination research act of the hearing will convene at 10 a.m. in room 417. city hall. van ness avenue and mcallister. san francisco. calif. senator hayakawa will chair the hearing. for additional information please contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2245175 or grace hussie. legislative assistant for senator hayakawa at 224-
. if i may have 1 minute on the bill. i commend the distinguished senator from maine for his very positive contribution to the wellbeing of the small business community. i ask unanimous consent that my name and that of the distinguished senator from minnesota be added as cosponsors of the amendment. i hope the amendment is adopted. i believe that anything wve can do for this most productive segment of our ecolyand yet the most neglected segment of our ecoywe should do. 1 am all for it. and i hope the vote is unanimous.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on july 30. 1981. at 11: 30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building to consider the ination of frank s. swain to be chief counsel for advocacy of the small business administration. for additional inf ormation contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the committee at 2445175. or kim elliott of the committee at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the small business committee will hold a hearing on september 23. 1981 on "interest rates and business credit needs." the hearing wll convene at 0130 a.m. in room 424. russell senate office building. washington. d.c. senator weicker will chair for additional information contact jim oconnell of the committee staff at 2244175. suscomurrre on advocacy and future op
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the subcommittee on advocacy and the future of small business of the small business committee will hold a field hearing on august 27. 1981. in los angeles. calif. the hearing will be in continuation of the subcommittees examination of the extent of government competition with the small business sector the hearing will convene at 10 a.m.. in the customs courtroom. eighth floor. federal building. 300 n. los angeles july 30. .1981 street. los angeles. calif. 90012. senator hayakawa will chair the hearing. for additional information contact kim elliott of the committee staff at 2245175. or grace hussie. senator hayaka was legislative assistant for small business at 2243841.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the small business committee will hold a hearing on s. 1620 legislation to extend the small business administrations section 8(a) pilot procurement program to march 31. the hearing will be held on september 21. 1981. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424. russell senate office building. senator weicker will chair. for additional information please contact bob wilson of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the small business committee will hold a full committtee meeting to mark up s. 881. "the small business ination research act of 1981" and s. 1620. legislation to extend the small business administrations section 8(a) pilot procurement program to mvarch 31. 1983. tre meeting will convene at 9:30 a.m. on tuesday. september 22. 1981. in room 424. russell senate office building. for additional information please contact anne sullivan or bob wilson of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee field hearing in new york city on october 14. 1981. the hearing will convene at 10 a.m.. in the rotunda room. federal hall. 26 wall street. new york. n.y. senator weicker will chair. this hearing will be a continuation of the committees examination of the problem of high interest rates and their effects on the ecoy. for additional information contact jim oconnell of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on "ltvs acquisition of grumman corp.: consequences for small businesses and the u.s. defense industrial base." the hearing will be held on tuesday. october 20. 1981. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. senator weicker will chair. for additional information please contact brian hartman of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would also like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the senate small business committee wifl hold an oversight hearing on the small business administrations direct loan program on tuesday. october 27. 1981. the hearing will convene at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. for additional information contact john mclean of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the subcommittee on advocacy and the future of small business of the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on ember 4. 1981. at 10 a~m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. the purpose of the hearing will be to continue the subcommittees examination of government competition with small business. for additional information contact kim elliott of the committee staff at 445175 or grace hussie of senator hayaicawas staff at 49829.
. let me put it straight out here so that we k exactly what is involved. i do  in any wise wvant to be a party to the passage of legislation under any subterfuge. up to this point we have agreed and we worked matters out. it has been my wish all along that all matters could be worked out as they were in the committee.  we are going to start taking up the tough choices. legal services is one of those. it is one of the problems that the comimittee faced. senator hollings and i. preferred to move into this without any restriction or legislative language or getting involved in that morass. but we understand that there were other senators wvho had different feelings. senator chiles being one. and there were many members on my side of the aisle who felt that they did want modifications to the legal services corporation and wanted the chance to express themselves. so after much discussion and a carefully constructed compromise the committee evolved upon the language which is contained in the committee nmendment. aside from the fact. as i stated. that this language is superfluous. it also is there for a parliamentary reason. it is there so that we do  spend the next 2 weeks trying to legislate on this appropriations bill but rather accept the compromises that we worked out within the committee which i think w~ere a fair representation of the views of the nieinhers of the commnittee and also which views incorporated some of the positions over on the house side. so the purpose of this amendment is twofold. thd language is superfluotis but it is also so thant we cn got down to the business of voting on the legal services corporation. it w~ill be my intention to go ahiead and have these votes. if the amendment will  be accepted by motion. then it would be my purpose to have this amendment and the committee amendment voted onl in order within a short space of time. so i am going directly  to imiy comnmits visavis the legal service corporation and hope that this amiendmnent will be adopted and that the committee amendment will be adopted. i rep~eat the committee amendment falls far short of anything that i would hope for in terms of the legal services corporation because very simply i cio  think that because a lawyer is assigned to a citizen of this country through the legal services corporation that lawvyer should have any less power than one whom any other citizcn of this nation would select by the private process. in order to be effective. the lawyer should have all the tools at his or her command and . because the salary is being paid for by public funds. be restricted in any way in presenting the case of his or her client. in considering funding for the legal services corporation. i strongly urge the senate to reject any attempts to include those provisions and restrictions adopted by the house. the senate appropriations subcommittee and committee carefully considered the legal services corporation. hearings were held and testimony taken. in an unusual move. even critics of the agency were invited to testify before the subcommittee with respect to their problems with legal services for the poor. the committee hc -. crafted a bill thant takes into accountin a very reasonable and logical waythe concerns members of congress and others brought to our attention. those provisions are included in h.r. 4169 and they severely restrict the activities of legal services attorneys in those somewhat political areas that many find offensive. the provisions of h.r. 4109: outlaw thu repre..entation of alilt all aliens. both illegal and legal: deny legislative representation to poor peoule through legal fervices attorneys: require the reagan board of directors to regulate class action lawsuits against governmental entities. and give bar associations majority control over local legal services programs. other concerns or problems were simply  brought to our attention. otherwise we would have dealt with them as wvell. but it makes. sense to simply adoptwithout hearing. without testimony. without any rational consideration whatsoeverthe housepassed restrictions with respect to legal services. this approach would be to bypass coms 13298 co pletely our own senate processes and procedures. and to blindly follow the house. such an approach should be rejected out of hand. let mie give you a few examples of what you would be doing by adopting in toto the house version. the housepassed verson preventedinadvertently i presumethe legal services corporation from making grants to bar associations. the senate bill remedies that problem. the housepassed bill restricts what individual legislators may ask of legal services attorneys. our bill remedies that problem too. we are dealing rationally and logically with the problems brought to our attention. we should follow such a path and adopt the bill that was reported to you by the committee. the senate will have full opportunity to deal in depth with the legal services corporation when its authorization is again scheduled for action in the 97th congress. that is the proper time and place to deal with the many technical and complex issues.  here. i strongly urge your support for the committee approach to the legal services corporation. if we bog down on this particular issue let one make any mistake that of all the line items in the state. justice. commerce bill this one. legal services. actually does better by a continuing resolution. so if we want to bog down and  have this bill become law then. fine. legal services will be the beneficiary. point number two: the figure for leaal services of $241 million is hardly adequate to do the job necessary in terms of the services to be provided. it would seem to me that for an administration that wants everybody to work within the system that can only be possible for a large portion of our society if they have these services available to them. otherwise their cause has to be pleaded in the streets. this is law and order money. it is law and order money. i am sorry that when an attorney takes a case that he causes discomfiture to the other side. and sometimes the other side is local government. state government. the federal government. i figure that it is what he is there for. but i k one thing after my experience in the u.s. senate in the last 2 years. odys rights are going to be protected by this body or the house. and maybe by the time this body gets through with the courts they will  be protected by the courts either. any rights that have accrued to the miities of this countryand by that r do  mean the blacks and hispanics. i mean miity in the sense of physical condition. the elderly being a miity unit. mental condition. those who are retarded are a miity unit. all of us taken as part of society are indded a part of some miity. and those rights that we seek to achieve in that miity capacity have never been brought to fruition by the congress of the united states. it has taken the courts to do that job. that is why i oppose the legal incursions or the constitutional incursions by this body into the judicial branch of govern-
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter dated ember 3. 1981. signed by 37 senators. in connection with funding for the legal services corporation. there being  objection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: dear colleague: within the next few days the senate will be considering h.r. 4169. funding for the departments of state. justice. commerce. the judiciary and related agencies for fiscal year 1982. we are writing to ask your support for the committees action regarding funding for the legal services corporation. the committee has recommended a funding level of $241.000.000 for the legal services corporation. restrictions have been placed on the corporation in four major areas. these provisions restrict lobbying activities: limit involvement in class action suits against federal. state and local governments. establish requirements to give the local bar a greater voice in legal service programs. and. restrict corporation involvement in the representation of aliens. legitimate concerns about the operation of the legal services corporation have been expressed by members of the senate. the committee has effectively dealt with these concerns in a manner that will prevent abuse while continuing the most important activities of this program. the $241.000.000 figure represents a 25 percent reduction in funding for the lsc. and it does  exceed the budget. although this figure exceeds the assumption under the first budget resolution figures. the subcommittee decreased funding in other programs within its jurisdiction to stay within its overall budget guldelin6s..we believe that the corporation is necessary to insure that all citizens are provided access to our system of justice. we will support the committee proposal during floor consideration of h.r. 4169 and urge you to join with us. with kindest personal regards. lowell p. weicker. jr.. chairman. state. justice. commerce. the judiciary and related agencies subcommittee. ernest f. hollings. ranking miity member. state. justice. commerce the judiciary and related agencies subcommittee. david durenberger. warren rudman. edward m. kennedy. dennis deconcini. daniel k. iye. ted stevens. mark 0. hatfield. howard m. metzenbaum. paul s. sarbanes. john c. danforth. henry m. jacksont. george j. mitchell. thomas f. eagleton. arlen specter. daniel patrick moynihan. patrick j. leahy. dale bumpers. slade gorton. john h. chafee. donald w. riegle. walter d. huddleston. harrison a. williams. jr... john heinz. quentin n. burdick. jennings randolph. bill bradley. charles h. percy. spark m. matsunaga. william s. cohen. christopher dodd. claiborne pell. joseph r. biden. jr.. paul e. tsongas. charles mcc. mat hias. jr.. david pryor.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the subcommittee on productivity and competition of the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on tuesday. december 1. 1981. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. the purpose of the hearing will be to examine "federal antitrust policy: implications for small business." for additional information. contact brian hartman of the committee staff at 2245175.
 to inate someone to the board who brings an understanding of the credib needs of the small business sector of the ecoy. this position was further reinforced by the senate small business committees national advisory council. on june 22. 1981. senator nuxn and i annced -the formation of the national advisory council of the committee on small business. this council is made up of 25 small business men and women from around the country who have agreed to work with the committee to provide a grassroots view of small business issues and concerns. the first meeting of the council was held in washington. on october 28. and i wish that all of my colleagues in the senate could had the opportunity to participate in this truly beneficial meeting. i felt then. and feel even more strongly  that it is absolutely crucial to establish the kind of ongoing communication between small business and washington that this council will provide. these people. involved with a small business on a daytoday basis. are in the best position to tell us whiat the problems of inflation. high interest rates. and excessive regulations are doing to themi and their businesses. it is eworthy that duiring the course of this daylong session. the one issue deemed to be of greatest significance to the small business community by the council dealt with the appointment of a small business person to the federal reserve board. i would like to have printed as part of the record at this point the councils recommendation which was transmitted to the small business comnmittee through its chairman. mr. shaw mudge. together with a list of the counclls membership.
. right  small business is leading the rest of the coruntry into what could be a very severe recession. finally people are beginning to realize that as small business goes. so goes the nation. and small business is in very deep trouble right . and the problem is severe and immediate. but  irreparable. the administrations ecoic game plan has gone awry and we need a midcourse correc-. tion urgently. the 1981 fiscal and monetary policies do  add upand i have been saying that all year. every since january i have been saying that you can cut taxes 30 percent. undertake a massive new arms buildup. tighten credit and still balance the budget.
 and to me by the administrator of the small business administration. michael cardenas. expressing strong support for having a qualified individual who represents the interest of small business appointed.to the board of govers of the federal reserve system.
the senator from california is correct. the administrator of the small business administration is authorized to enter into commitments of up to $250.000.000 under public law 9735. as chairman of the subcommittee on state. justice. commerce . i would interpret the provisions of section 136 of this joint resolution to require that the sea administrator enter into the full amount of commitments authorized by public law 9735. this is wholly consistent with the action of the senate on h.r. 4169.0
. i would like to submit a list of small business and trade associations supporting the legislation and thank them for their dedication in keeping the congress informed about the extent of the federal late payment problem. the list follows organizations wsuch are: urbithe conecrsss to resolve the slow pay problem national audiovisual association (nava). national office products association (a). national micrographics association (nma). national association of wholesalerdistributors (naw). independent media producers association (impa). association of reproduction materials manufacturers (armm). coalition for common sense in government procurement (ccsop). media educational sales association (mesa). national meat association (nma). american logistics association (ala). business products council association (b poa). business and institutional furniture manufacturers association (bifma).association of editorial businesses. inc. (aeb). national association of manufacturers (nam). american meat institute (am~i). association of the wall & ceiling industriesinternational (awor.). associated general contractors (ago). national broiler council (nbc). latin american manufacturers association (lama). automotive service industry association (asia). automotive parts rebuilders association (apra). committee on federal contracting practices (cfop). united fresh fruit & vegetable association (tjffva). national association of meat purveyors (namp). american association of nurserymen (aan). national independent dairies association(nida). council of smaller enterprises (cse). the national small business association (nsba). smaller business association of new england (sbane). door and hardware institute (ii). small business united (sbu). national council of professional service firms (ncpsf). midcontinent small blusiness united (msbu). independent business association of wisconsin (rbaw). chicago association of commerce & industry (caci). national moving & storage association (nmsa). american consulting engineers council. national federation of independent businesses.
. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this measure. the idea embodied in the delinquent payments act is  revolutionary. reactionary. or unreasonable. it is just goodand fair business. and i think it is the very least that small business contractors should expect from their government.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on government procurement will conduct a hearing on the "impact of the davisbacon threshold on small business construction contractors." on february 2. 1982. in room 424 of the russell senate office building at 9:30 a.m. for further information. please contact kim elliott at 2443840 or bret bernhardt at 2246012.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommitteu on advocacy and the future of small business will conduct a hearing on "s. 1947. a bill to improve contract ices in the commerce business daily." on february 17. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. in the federal building. san diego. calif. for further information. please contact grace hussie at 2243841 or kim elliott at 2243840.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct a hearing on influencing small business investment in enterprise zones. on february 23. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. for thrther information. please contact bob wilson at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct a hearing on march 2. 1982. at 9 a.m.. room 424 of the russell senate office building. on "safe harbor leasing: usability by smell business." for further informatiun contact brian hartman. 2245175. senator damato will chair.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing to consider the ination of james c. sanders to be the small business administration administrator. the hearing will be held in room. 424 of the russell senate office building. march 9. at 9:30 a.m.
. i would like to annce that the hearing to consider the ination of james c. sanders for administrator of the small business administration scheduled for march 9. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building has been changed to 10 a.m. instead of 9:30 a.m.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct a field hearing on the enterprise zones on april 7. 1982. room 2225 of the dirksen federal building. 219 south dearborn street chicago. ill.. beginning at 10:30 a.m.
. as chairman of the senate small business committee. i offer my strong support and endorsement of james c. sanders. whose ination as administrator of the small business administration has been confirmed by the senate. on march 9. 1982. the full comittee held a hearing on mr. sanders ination. after a full and complete hearing and a careful review of the inees financial disclosure statements and the investigative report on his background. the full committee again met on march 25 and unanimously voted to report the ination to the senate. let me say at the outset that these are hard times for small business. money is scarce. credit is scarce. and the cost of just about everything is up. the result is that we are  seeing bankruptcies among businesses at their highest level in 40 years.  more than ever. small business needs a strong. effective advocate in this administration. someone who can bring the small business viewpoint to the fore of the policymaking _rocess in this country. in my opinion. tiat advocate can and should be the administrator of the small business administration. it is unfortunate that the small business administration has also come on hard times of late. since late january. with budget cuts looming and the ecoic situation growing worse by the day. the agency has gone without a permanent administrator. the fact is that in the past. the agencyand indeed the small businc.-s community which it serveshas simply had a caretaker. when what it needs is a fighter. the agency is in need of reform. the small business committee over the last year and a half has made oversight of sba a top priority. while the committee has often been critical of the agency. it has been constructive criticism. yes. frustration has been expressed. but it is frustration caused by the realization that the agencys potential and goals are  being realized. it is frustration caused by the fact that this agency is needed  more than everto assist this vital sector of the ecoy which symbolizes the american experience. the job mr. sanders is being asked to do is  an easy one. certainly. the challenges for the new administrator will be great. but. after meeting with mr. sanders and reviewing his qualificatiois and background. and listening carefully to his testimony at the committees hearing to consider his ination. i am confident that he will be able to meet those challenges. in testimony before the senate small business committee. mr. sanders expressed many of the same concerns about sba and the needs of the small business c-. amunity that i have just outlined. as cofounder of his own small insurance agency which later merged with a nationally kn insurance brokerage firm of which he became the chief executive officer. mr. sanders brings to the agency a wealth of firsthand kledgeabout business in general and small business problems in particular. in our hearing. mr. sander- expressed his commitment to maintaining an independent sba that effectively serves the needs of the small business community. he pledged his energies to insuring that the voice of small business will be heard through his advocacy and leadership in the halls of the administrations policymakers. in our hearing. mr. sanders also expressed a debire and a willingness to work closely with the small business committee in an effort to jointly address the many problems facing our nations small businesses. he has pledged to remain accessible to us. and to assist us wherever he can when questions concerning his agency arise. i welcome this cooperation and regard it as an encouraging sign for the small business community. as the present associate administrator for management assistance of the small business administration. mr. sanders is already familiar with many of the programs at the agency. this agency background should prove extremely helpful in providing a smooth and rapid transition period with a minimum disruption in agency operations. in addition. mr. sanders private sector management experience along with his recent government tenure. will be invaluable in understanding the problems and needs of the small business community. i look forward to working with mr. sanders in reshaping the small business administration. i am pleased that the senate has acted quickly and affirmatively on his ination.*
 is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation designating the week beginning may 9. 1982. as "national small business week". and calling on the people of the united states and interested groups and organizations to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies and activitives. in recognition of the achievements and contributions which small business men and women have made to american society.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct a field hearing on "influencing small business investment in enterprise zones." on may 7. 1982. room 15 of the state capitol. st. paul. minn.. beginning at 10 a.m. senator boscnwrrz will chair the hearing. for further information. please contact bob wilson at 2245175.
madam president. i am delighted that the senate is today taking final action on s. 1131. the prompt payments act. i would like to thank my distinguished colleague from missouri for his outstanding leadership in bringing this bill through the governmental affairs committee and the senate last year. and for his dedication to reducing the late payment dilemma  facing the small business community. through the entire legislative processdrafting of the bill. hearings. markup. and full senate considerationsenator danforth and i have truly worked as a team to bring the bill to this point. it is due to his cooperation and leadership that we have come this far. it was almost a year ago today that we introduce this legislation. and during this time. the need for the bill has only become more clear. of all the many problems that beset small business owners. this is one of the most damaging and frustrating. i say frustrating because it is so unnecessary imagine having to enact legislation to force the government to pay its bills on time. if anything. you would think the government would be setting an example for other businesses when it comes to their purchasing and payment procedures. but time and again. we see that this is  the case. despite the fact that small business payrolls. mortgage payments. or investments often depend on the cash flow generated by payments on account. the federal government persists in taking 90. 120. or more days to pay its bills. for a big business. such a delay in payment would undoubtedly cause some consternation in the bookkeeping department. but life would go on. for a small firm. however. that one payment might mean the difference between survival and disaster. madam president. i do .need to tell you that small businesses are going through some pretty rough times out there. if the overall ecoy is being buffeted by a stiff wind right . then amall business is. caught in the middle of a hurricane. small businesses are failing at a rate unseen since the great depression. and those that have  failed are hanging on by their thumbnails. in this climate. with blows raining down on them from all sides. the last thing our small business owners need is to get suckerpunched by their own government. i find it inexcusable that this government can pay its bills in a timely and orderly fashion.  only is it poor government. it is alsoconsidering that we are the largest purchaser in the worldjust plain bad business. besides causing the small business owner sizable hardship. late payment of bills also costs the government money. by  paying within a reasonable period. we routinely and regularly forfeit the discounts offered to us for prompt payment. in times of budget restraint such as these. this kind of cavalier attitude toward paying bills is unconscionable. this legislation would put a stop to these wasteful and destructive payment practices by requiring the federal government to pay its bills in a timely fashio face interest penalties. in short. the same terms that you or i. or any small business owner. abide by every day in our own business dealings. this important principle will  be placed in statute. hopefully. it will send a clear signal to the federal bureaucracy to change its sloppy billpaying practices. failure to respond will hit those agencies where it hurtsin their pocketbooks. all interest penalty charges will come from the operating budget of the delinquent agency involved. the bill has teeth and provides a real incentive to change. the analcgy has been drawn time and again. but i think it is worth repeating: imagine how the federal government would react if small businesses paid their income tax with the same alacrity the government shows in its payment procedures. we all k exactly how they would reactwith interest penalties and threats of prosecution. that is how. so why should they expect any less when the situation is reversed and they are on the paying side. let me just make it clear here that by imposing interest penalties on the government. we are  attempting to somehow get more money for small businesses. believe me. all small business owners want is their due. and in this case. that is payment of what is owed.  6 months from when the bill goes out.  9 months after it is sent. but within 45 days. madam president. the general accounting office. in two separate studies done on the latepay problem. found that 39 percent of all the governments bills are paid an average of 74 days late. and that because of these delays. small businesses are losing anywhere from $150 to $375 million a year. finally. i would like to thank the slow pay coalition. the u.s. chamber of commerce. and other trade and business organizations for their help in keeping the congress and the american people informed about the effects and the extent of the delinquent payments problem.
. i would like to annce that on june 10. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. the senate small business committee will conduct a full committee hearing on the small business investment companies (sbics) and miity enterprise small business investment companies (mesbics). for further information. contact mike haynes at 224-
. the committee on small business held two hearings on this legislation. on february 17. 1982. the subcommittee on advocacy and the future of small business. chaired by senator hayakawa. conducted a hearing on the bill in san diego. calif. the full committee conducted a second legislative hearing on the bill in washington on march 4. 1982. at these hearings. the committee received testimony from small business owners who routinely use the cbd. additionally. officials from the office of federal procurement policy. the department of commerce. and the small business administration. presented their views on the legislation. the editor of the cbd and the u.s. public printer testified about the mechanics and costs involved in compiling. publishing. and distributing the document. the committee met in executive session on may 13. 1982. and. with a quorum present. adopted two amendments and ordered favorably reported s. 1947 with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. senators levin and nunn introduced an amendment to require the head of a procuring agency to approve the commencement of sole source negotiations for procurements in excess of $100.000. the amendment also requires the procuring agency to consider all timely responses to the ice of intent to contract on a sole source basis. the amendment was adopted by. voice vote. senator levin offered a second amendment to strike the exemption from the time limits established in the committees amendment for professional service contracts. as well as the exemption for contracts awarded to education institutions. the amendment was adopted by a rollcall vote.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees hearing scheduled for june 10. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 424 of the russell senate office building.on the oversight hearing of small business investment companies and miity enterprise small business investment companies has been postponed until further ice.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on miity business and its contributions to the u.s. ecoy. on june 23. 1982. at 9:30 a.m.. room 424 of the russell senate office building. for . further information. please contact bob wilson of the committee staff at 2245175.
 reagan has shown that he recognizes and appreciates the contributions that small business makes to our ecoy in the form of inations. jobs and techogical advancement. this new law will increase the opportunity of small business to make those contributions. and thus will benefit us all in the years ahead.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct a field hearing on. "the future of small business in the face of urban crime". on august 16. 1982. u.s. court of international trade. 1 federal plaza. 2d floor courtroom. new york. n.y.. beginning at 10 a.m. senator damato will chair the hearing. for further information contact mike haynes at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business subcommittee on export promotion and market development will conduct a hearing to "consider the obstacles faced by small business exporters." on august 19. 1982. in room 424 of the russell senate office building beginning at 9:30 a.m. setator boschwinz will chair. for further information contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2243188.
. i do  believe the right to protect the exclusivity of an idea should be determined solely by the ability to pay. my bill would allow small businesses and inventors to continue to exercise their full inative capacity. while at the same time allowing them the uncontestable right of ownership of their ideas. that right. as well as the overall state of ination in this country. would be seriously jeopardized. in my opinion. if small firms and independent inventors were required to pay fees at the 100percent level. my bill would establish a twotier system for the payment of patent user fees. simply stated. it requires that large firms pay at the 100percent level. while smaller firms. independent inventors. and profit organizations would pay at a 50percent level. i believe this twotier approach is both reasonable and feasible. in fact. i have been assured by the pto that undue difficulty in administering such a system is anticipated. the house judiciary committee incorporated the main provisions of s. 2326 in h.r. 6260 and added a section permitting arbitration of patent disputes when agreeable to both parties involved in the controversy. in addition. while the senate measure would s10294 co have allowed one consumer price indexing adjustment of the fees specified in the bill. h.r. 6260. makes such adjustments automatic every 3 years. the house version was unanimously approved by the house judiciary committee on may 11 and passed the full house by a voice vote on june 8. h.r. 6260. the amended version of s. 2326. is a good bill and i strongly urge the senate to adopt it. i should like tot take this opportunity to thank my colleagues. senators thurmond decowcini. hatch. and kennedy for their help in promoting this legislation. the bill was considered. ordered to a third. reading. read the third time. and passed.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on thursday. september 16. 1982. room 424 of the russell senate office building. at 10 a.m.. to consider s. 2446. the small business procurement reform act of 1982. and other small business procurement reforms. senator s. i. hayakawa will chair the hearing. for further information please contact kimberly elliott of the small business committee staff at 2243840.
. i would like to annce that the subcommittee on urban and rural ecoic development. committee on small business. will hold a hearing on tuesday. september 28. 1982. room 424 of the russell senate office building. at 9:30 a.m.. on "oversight hearing on sbas section 503. ecoic development program." senator a.fonse damato will chair the hearing. for further information. please contact bob wilson of the small business committee staff at 2242130.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will conduct an oversight hearing on "the small business administrations sbic program." december 16. 1982. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. beginning at 9:30 a.m. for further information. contact mike haynes at 2248487.
 senator bumpers. who i k has special concerns about the disaster loan program. as he eloquently expressed within the comnittee desiring to bring the matter here to floor action. i think this might be a good moment for him to query this senator. as chairman of the small business committee. to see if we might set the record straight on the matters of concern to the senator from arkansas.
. in response to the distinguished senator from arkansas. who raised.this matter in the full appropriations committee. i indicated at that time. and i indicate here again. that the change of policy which he advocates or which he wants to see modified in some way was modified only a year ago. up to that point. the rates were here near what they are today. as a matter of compromise between the house. the senate. and the administration. with both chairman smith and myself leading toward the lower rates for both credit worthy and credit worthy. the administration wanting to see the cost of money across the board. we arrived at the present compromise. i k exactly whereof the senator from arkansas speaks. having had similar disasters in conpecticut this past year due to flood damage and where. indeed. the interest rates were even higher than those presently being paid in arkansas. i think this is a matter that. with experience in hand under the administration policy.  demands a review as to exactly what the impact has been. i assure the senator from arkansas that such oversight hearings will be held before the small business committee.
 on february 3. 1983. the senate committee on small business will continue its oversight hearing on the small business investment company program. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 of the russell building. senator weicker will chair. on january 21. 1983. the senate committee on small business will hold an oversight hearing on the small business development center program. the hearing will commence at 9 a.m. in the lou strom auditorium of the federal building. 275 peachtree street ne.. in atlanta. ga.
. all too often small firms are unable to compete for government contracts on an equal level with large businesses. in part this is due to the lack of timely and adequate ice of contracting opportunities made in the commerce business daily. for example. it is  unusual for a procurement ice to first appear in the commerce business daily on the same date that an agency solicitation is available. this puts small firms. especially those which can afford marketing representatives. at a competitive disadvantage in monitoring potential federal contracts. similarly. many businesses learn of the closing date for proposals only days before that date. in these cases. the businesses have almost chance to make a timely response to those solicitations. it is for that reason that we are reintroducing this statutory solution to this persistent small business problem. specifically. under this bill. interested parties would have 15 days from the appearance of a ice in the commerce business daily to request copies of a solicitation on competitively bid and negotiated government contracts. also. in most cases. the bill would provide at least 30 days from the issuance of a solicitation before a bid is due. where agencies are already required to publish ice in the commerce business daily and absent any exemption for more rapid purchasing. the legislation would statutorily provide prospective bidders with a minimum of 45 days for the solicitation and bidding process. the legislation also would alter the existing statutory exemptions from advertising in the publication. the committee on small business held 2 days of hearings and one markup session on this same legislation during the 97th congress. to facilitate its consideration this year. i am inserting a summary of the commerce business daily legislative history as reported by the committee last year:
. on february 11. 1983. the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market development and the senate commerce and transportations subcommittee on science will hold a joint hearing on the "obstacles to exporting faced by small businesses." the hearing will begin at 2 p.m.. -s 479 in the th auditorium of the new federal building. fourth floor. 915 second avenue. seattle. wash. senator slade gorton will chair the hearing. for further information. contact anne sullivan at 2243188.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee has rescheduled its january 21. 1983 oversight hearing on the small business development center program for february 8. 1983. beginning at 1:30 p.m.. in the fifth floor. irs conference room. federal building. 275 peachtree street ne.. atlanta. ga.
. i ask unanimous consent that the senate turn to the consideration of calendar order  3. s. 273. the miity small business pilot procurement act of 1983. under the following time agreement: 20 minutes of the bill to be equally divided between the chairman of the small business committee and the ranking miity member or their designees. that amendment be in order to the bill except the amendment reported by the small business committee. and that the agreement be in the usual form.
. i ask unanimous consent that following the disposition of calendar order  3. s. 273. today. the senate turn to the consideration of calendar order  4. s. 272. under the following time agreement: 30 minutes on the bill to be equally divided between the chairman of the small business committee and the ranking miity member or their designees. that the only amendment to be in order. other than the amendment reported by the small business committee. be an amendment to be offered by the senator from maine dealing with ification requirement. to be limited to 5 minutes. and that the agreement be in the usual form.
. on february 17. 1983. the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on s. 499. a bill to require the usage of taxexempt financing in connection with the small business administrations section 503 certified development company program. the hearing will begin at 2 p.m. in room 428a of the senate russell office building. senator damato will chair.
. pursuant to rule xxvi. paragraph 2. of the standing rules of the senate. i submit for publication in the congressional record. the rules of the committee on small business for the 98th congress. which were adopted by the committee on january 26. 1983. as follows:
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee markup on s. 499. a bill to require the usage of taxexempt financing in connection with the small business administrations section 503 loan program. on march 9. 1983. at 2 p.m.. in room 428asr.
. on march 16. 1983. the senate committee on small businesss subcommittee on ination and techogy will hold an oversight hearing on public law 97219. the small business ination research act. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. senate russell building. senator rudman will chair.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee meeting with its national advisory council on april 12. 1983. beginning at 2 p.m. in room 428a of the senate russell office building. for further information. please contract mary meyers of the committee staff at 2243840.
. the 25 men and women named to this council are involved daytoday in the operation of a working small business. they k firsthand what the difficulties of running a business are. they k personally the factors which impede their growth and make it impossible for them to expand and become stronger units in our overall ecoy. we on the small business committee listen to them and value their opinions because we k what they say comes from experience. what those 25 people told us yesterday was loud and clear. they want to hire. they want to expand. they want to help get the ecoy back on its feet in the best way they k howby creating jobs. that is why they passed a resolutionunanimously. i might addurging the congress to adopt legislation to implement the six recommendations which are in the bill you have before you today. as in the case of s. 360. this bill sets forth small business goals in the tax reform area for the 98th congress. s. 1043. along with s. 842. which i introduced earlier last month to provide for the creation of a small business participating debenture. lays out a series of alternatives for the congress to consider as we seek to find ways to foster job creation and small business growth. it is my hope that the small business committee and the finance committee will carefully consider these initiatives in light of their tremendous job creation potential. there is doubt. in these times of rising unemployment. that permanent. private sector employment must be expanded. and when it comes to jobs. small business is where the action is. small business is and has. been the leader in providing new jobs. this legislation will provide small firms with the basic fundamental tools they need for ecoic growth. so that they can continue to play that traditional and vitally important role.e by mr. damato (for himself and mr. moynihan):
. i hope my colleagues will carefully consider this legislation in light of the record of service of the legal services corporation in protecting basic civil rights in our society. the drumbeat of criticism of the corporation will doubtless continue. passage of this bill will  be an easy task. but it will be well worth the effort. because of the paramount importance of what is at stake.*
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a markup on pending legislation dealing with the small business administrations programs. on may 12. 1983. at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2248487.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees markup on pending legislation dealing with the small business administrations programs scheduled for may 12. 1983 at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a sr has been rescheduled for may 13. at 11 a.n. in room 428a sr. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on the family farm will hold a hearing on the impact of canadian agricultural imports and its effect on the small business community on june 29. 1983. at 10 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. senator damato will chair the hearing. for further information please contact john mcnamara of the committee staff at 224-
.. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees full committee markup on pending legislation scheduled for june 16. 1983. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a senate russell office building. has been postponed until further ice.
. i would like to ail. nce that the hearing for the senate small business committee on oversight of the small business development center program scheduled for june 21. 1983. has been rescheduled for july 19. 1983. in room 428a. senate russell office building. there will be a morning session which will begin at 8:30 a.m. and an aftern session which will begin at 2 p.m. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committee staff at 2245175.
i am delighted that the senate is today considering the conference report to s. 272. and i would like to congratulate senator pressler on bringing this bill to this point. this is his first bill as a member of this committee. and i compliment him on the fine work he has done in its behalf. briefly. the purpose of the bill is to improve small business access to federal procurement information by changing the procedures for advertising in the commerce business daily (cbd). s. 272 seeks to guarantee small business contractors their fair share of the federal procurement dollar by establishing statutory time limits for publishing advance ice of government contracts and for bidding on them. this legislation also revises many of the current law exemptions from advertising in the cbd and addresses a longstanding need to make sole source contracting a more accountable process. . this concludes my brief description of s. 272 as agreed to by the conferees. i am extremely pleased that we are at the final stage in passing this muchneeded legislation. again. i thank my colleagues on the senate small business committee as well as my good friends on the house committee for helping to make this bill a reality for the thousands of small business contractors who will benefit from it.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee and the house small business committees subcommittee on sba and sbic authority. miity enterprise and general small business problems. will hold a joint oversight hearing on the small business development center program. on july 6. 1983. the hearing will begin at 8:30 a.m. and will be located in the th auditorium of the federal building. fourth floor. 915 second avenue. seattle. wash. for further information. please contact robert dotchin. staff director of the small business committee. at 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees markup on pending legislation scheduled for july 14. 1983. has been rescheduled for july 18. 1983. beginning at 4 p.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further contact. please call mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business subcommittee on entrepreneurship and special problems facing small business. will hold a field hearing in eau claire. wis. on "special problems facing small business in the midwest." the hearing will be held on august 22. 1983. starting at 10 a.m. at the county board room of the eau claire county courthouse. for further information please contact michael morris of the committee staff at 2245175. senator kasten will chair.
. the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market developmtent has annced a change in its scheduled field hearing as originally annced august 4. 1983. the hearing on small business exports and export financing. originally scheduled for september 9. will  be held on september 12. 1983. in the hearing chambers of the metropolitan_ council. 300 metro square building. st. paul. minn.. starting at 9:30 a.m. for further information. please contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2245175. senator boscirwrrz will chair.*
. i would like to annce that the ftull committee of the senate small b~usiness committee will hold a markup on tuesday. september 20. 1983. to consider legislation to comply with the reconciliation instruction incorporated in house concurrent resolution 91. the -first concurrent budget resolution. the committee will also consider s. 1022. a bill to amend section 8(a) of the small business act to treat businesses owned by indian tribes as so. diaily and ecoically disadvantaged small business concerns. the markup will start at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i support this amendment. which would direct more funding to small businesses interested in exporting. before i speak specifically about this amendment though. i would like to take a few minutes to commend senator boschwitz. my good friend and colleague on the senate small business committee. for the outstanding job he has done generally in assisting small business exporters. at his suggestion as chairman of the small business export promotion and market development subcommittee. the small business committee conducted a survey of 6.500 practicing and potential small exporters. the purpose of the survey was to ascertain the obstacles to exporting as perceived by small firms. with a view toward. attempting to remedy the problems identified. one of the principle stumbling blocks cited by those surveycd was the dearth and inadequacy of export financing. following the compilation of the survey findings. senator boschwirz held a hearing regarding the exportimport banks assistance to small firms. at that hearing the chairman of eximbank. william h. draper. ackledged that only 3 percent of exims available financing went to small businesses. this is somewhat appalling to me. especially in light of the department of commerces estimates that while small firms account for only 10 percent of total annual exports. at least 20.000 of them have the potential to export competitively. following this hearing. senator boschwitz introduced an amendment to the eximbank reauthorization bill which gives small businesses a fairer share of exims available financing. i strongly support this amendment. i believe it realistieally and reasonably addresses the very serious problem which my colleague from minnesota has identified. again. i commend senator bosciiwitz for his persistence in pursuing the problems faced by small businesses and in arriving at a solution which would make a real and tangible difference to small exporters. as well as to the ecoy in general.*
. during the past 25 years. small and miityowned small businesses. backed with venture capital from small business investment companies (sbics) and miity enterprise small business investment companies (mesbics). have experienced extraordinary growth. opened the door to hundreds of thousands of employment opportunities and been in the forefront of our nations developments in techogy and ination. many of these prosperous. small. and miityowned small businesses would  have been able to begin their operations without the injection of seed capital from sbics and mesbics. these privately managed and organized financial institutions are licensed by the u.s. small business administration (sba). to provide equity capital. longterm loans. and management assistance to small firms. i do  need to tell you. in this day and age. that this service is desperately needed and appreciated by the small business community. as traditional credit markets become increasingly hesitant to take a chance on small. often untried and unproven. companies. the importance of sbics and mesb1cs in giving small companies the capital they need to grow and expand becomes ever greater.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a hearing on october 17. 1983. in nashville. tenn.. on the obstacles faced by small business in federal procurement. the hearing will begin at 1:45 p.m.. in room 29. legislative plaza. for further information. please contact bill montalto of the committee staff at 224-
. i fully support the amendment offered by senator nunn that would permit financial assistance in the 503 program to be made available in the those cases where ownership interests of the small business and ownership interests of the property to be financed with the proceeds of a section 503 loan are  identical because of the interfamily relationships. currently. this is  permitted because of sbas alterego rule which requires identical ownership interests. the small biusiness committee has heard testimo.. on this important issue which showed clearly that there are legitimate business reasons for different ownership interests between the small business concern and the property to be -financed. most of the cases cited to the committee involved reasons dealing with family relationships. therefore. i fully support senator nunns amendment. in addition. we have agreed to work together to determine the full extent to which the alterego rule impedes the legitimite use of the 503 program and whether further action is necessary. i have instructed the committee staff to work jointly with senator nunns staff in this endeavor.o
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a full committee markup on ember 1. 1983. on s. 1429. a bill to amend the small business act to provide for the continuation of the small business development center program. the markup will begin at 10 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committee staff at 2243840.
. i would like to annce that. the senate committee on small business will hold a hearing on ember 3. 1983. to examine the competitive situation existing between public utilities and certain small business owners. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information. please contact steve snider on 2242306. or john mcnamara on 2242809. of the committee staff.
. it is an outrage to me that we should have to plead with the department of justice to enforce our antitrust law. it is an outrage. that congress should have to remind the department of justice that congress.  the courts. is the proper body for changing the law. if indeed. a change is necessary. congress can afford to sit back and ige the actions of the justice department. the role of small business in our free enterprise system should  be dealt with at the discretion of the administration. the longstanding bipartisan public policy prohibiting vertical price - restraints has provided small business with the opportunity to respond in inative ways to meet market demand for products at affordable prices. the past record of enforcement of our antitrust laws by both democratic and republican administrations has enabled consumers to benefit from the lower prices that competition brings. this amendment should make clear to our chief law enforcement agency that congress and the people of this country expect it to do just that: en force the laws. as they stand on the books. again. i commend the senator from new hampshire for his initiative and leadership on this issue. and i urge my colleagues to join with us in sending this loud and clear signal to the antitrust division of the department of justice.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on government regulation and paperwork will hold an oversight hearing on ember 15. 1983. on the paperwork reduction act of 1980. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. senator hatch will chair. for further information. please contact john mcnamara of .the committee staff at 224stiicommitee on agricultural credit and
. i would like to annce that on ember 10. 1983. the senate small business committee will hold a full committee oversight hearing on "women in buisiness." the hearing will begin at 10:30 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. senator boschiswtz will chair. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committec staff at 244-
. i rise in support of h.r. 4013. a bill to extend the sunset provision of the small business development center program. and ask its favorable consideration. currently. the sbdc program. administered by the small business administration. is due to expire on october 1. 1984. on ember 11. 1983. the senate small business committee favorably reported out s. 1429. a bill to make the sbdc program permanent. i am pleased that the full senate unanimously passed this legislation today. unfortunately. the house will  be in a position to deal with s. 1429 until early next year. therefore. to avoid funding problems. this stopgap measure needs to be enacted. the problem is this: of the 27 sbdcs currently operating. about half are on a calendar year funding cycle. as opposed to a fiscal year. while there is still a year before the authorization for the program runs out. the administration informs me that unless the program is extended for 3 months. those centers on a calendar year cycle will suffer an interruption in their funding. so then. this is an interim measure. merely designed to insure the continued. steady operation of the program while our bill is being considered in the house. as such. i recommendand i have the concurrence of the small business committees ranking miity member on thisthat the senate act quickly to pass this interim legislation. thank you.
. i am pleased the senate is today considering s. 1429. legislation introduced by senator nunn and myself to strengthen. expand. and make permanent the small business development center program. currently. this program is due to expire on october 1. 1984.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on december 7. 1983. on obstacles facing small business concerns seeking to compete for federal procurement contracts. the committee will be receiving testimony on the problems confronted by small business and solutions offered by bills pending before the committee. especially s. 1730. "small business competition in contiacting act of 1983." the hearing will begin at 10:00 a.m.. ceremonial courtroom. room 2541 of the dirksen federal building. chicago. ill. for further information. please contact bill montalto of the committee staff at 224-
. i would like to annce that the committee on small business will hold a full committee hearing in oklahoma city. okla.. on january 17. 1984. to be chaired by senator don nickl.es. the purpose of the hearing is to receive testimony on the obstacles facing small business concerns attempting to compete for federal procurement contracts. in addition. testimony will be sought on the impact on smallbusiness resulting from labor surplus area considerations in the award of contracts by the department of defense. the hearing will begin at 1 p.m. and be held in a location to be annced. for further information. please contact william b. montalto. the committees procurement policy counsel. at 2243099. on january 24. 1984. the full committee of the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on federal antitrust enforcement and its impact on small business. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact michael morris. committee counsel at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees national advisory council will hold an allday meeting on march 15. 1984. starting at 8:30 a.m. in room 428a. russell senate office building. for further information. please contact bob dotchin. staff director of the committee. at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on march 9. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to restrict the authority of the small business administration to deny financial assistance to small business concerns solely because the primary business operations of such concerns relate to the communication of ideas. the hearinig will start at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. russell senate office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. the result of this legislation. in the final analysis. should be a more efficient government program that ultimately lowers the cost of borrowing for small business without imposing any additional costs on the government. i hope my colleagues will support this legislation and ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees hearing on 8. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administration ito make loans to small business concerns whose primary business is the communication of ideas. scheduled for march 9. 1984. has been rescheduled for april 3. 1984. at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the small business committee staff. at 2248487.
. the advisory council has made an important contribution to the congressional deliberations on small business matters. i urge my colleagues to carefully review these resolutions. they accurately reflect some of the major concerns of small business owners in this nation. as chairman of the small business committee. i am deeply grateful to all the members who participated in this conference. i ask that the full text of the four resolutions. a list of the council members who attended the annual meeting and a story from the washington post of march 16 be printed in the record following this statement. the resolutions follow:
. last august i introduced s. 1730. the small business competition in contracting act of 1983. thirtytwo of my colleagues have juitned me as cosponsors of this legislation. 8. 1780 addresses several of the obstacles to competition that the small business community faces when it tries to compete for the more titan $150 billion the federal government spends each year purchasing goods and services from the private sector. 8. 1730 has become a focal point for the congress. federal agencies. and the contracting community. it highlights the difficulties faced by small bustnesses. we all k hat small business has the desire and the capability to provide quality products and services to the government expeditiously and at competitive prices. there are. however. a number of federal procurement laws. procedures. and agency practices that make it difficult. if  impossible. for many small businesses to fairly and fully compete for government contracts. during the past several months. within the senate small business committee. senator weicker has provided significant guidance and leadership by focusing our review on these obstacles which impede competition by small businesses. our committee has already held four field hearings: one chaired by my good friend from tennessee. snator sasser. one. by my good friend from wisconsin. senator kasten. one. by my good friend from oklahoma. seinator nickles. and. i chaired a hearing in chicago. two full committee hearings are scheduled for early april here in washington. building on all of these hearings. and relying on the outstanding staff work of bill montalto and alan chvotkin of the small business committee. senator weicker and i have developed what we consider to be an improved. "second generation" version of 8. 1730. it is also solidly based on an analysis of the wealth of information in congressional and executive branch studies relating to procurement issues. the new bill. which we are introducing today. addresses the same problems we sought to solve in introducing s. 1730. but does so in a more comprehensive way. this approach will  significantly alter the procurement system. it will. in fact. enhance competition. i have recently spoken to the small buisiines groups which originally suppoled 8. 1730. indicaling my support for the "new generation" bill. i have ailso contarted all 32 cosponsors of my original bill. urging thm to join with ieiiator wiicker and nie. as we intro(ire i il is iegislat ion. i fidl very strongly that this "new gen ai ion" vorsion of s. 1730 will provide .imall buvinessevs throughout our country with the neans to compete by 1)ip. lng to an end the governments past relance on sole source coni racit s.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold full committee hearings on s. 2489. the small business competition enhancement act. and s. 2434. "a bill to amend section 15 of the small business act by requiring the assignment of breakout procurement representatives at major procuring installations." on april 6. 1984. at 10 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell. and on april 12. 1984. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. senate russell. for further information. please contact william montalto. procurement counsel. of the committee staff at 2243099.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business comrnittees hearing on april 3. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administral ion to make loans to small business concemns whose primary business is tle communication of ideas. has been postponed until further ice.
. through these attainments. bill barth has left a legacy of high regard for small business enterprise throughout the country. he will be remembered for this and for the high qualities of dedication. decency. and fairness with which he went about his work. the small business community has lost much with his passing and he will be missed. it is only fitting that bill barth has been chosen to be hoed before those he represented so wellsmall businessas this years small business "accountant advocate of the year."e
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold an oversight hearing on june 6. 1984. on the impact of government competition on small business. the hearing will start at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator rudman will chair. for further information. please contact michael morris. counsel for the committee. on 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market development has scheduled a hearing on may 10. 1984. on the eximbanks administration of thesmall business setaside provisions of public law 98181. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator boschwltz will chair. for further information. please contact stewart hudson of the committee staff at 224-
. i ask that these letters be printed in their entirety in the record. the letters follow: lion. iowell p. weicker. jr.. chairman. senate small business committee. washington. d.c. dear : small business united (gbu) a coalition of 14 regional. state and metropolitan trade association representing more than 60.000 small husinesses nationwide supports 8. 2375 and urges its quick enactment by the senate. the bill. providing for the pooled sale of small business administration (sba) 7(a) guaranteed loans into a secondary market. could dramatically improve small business access to capital and increase the efficiency of sbas loan program at financial cost to the federal government. as was shown in a recent general accounting office report on the 7(a) loan program. loans guaranteed by the ba are an important source of capital for small business. according to the gao "approximately 30 to 40 percent of the dollar amount of banks longterm financing (six years or more) to small businesses may carry an sba guarantee." by improving the salability of 7(a) loans in secondary markets. 8. 2375 enhances bank iquidity allowing banks to make more loans. both 7(a) guaranteed and guaranteed loans. thus small business. as well as other bank borrowers. will have increased access to capital. and market efficiency will be improved. sbu thanks you for sponsoring this bill and hopes it will soon become law. sincerely.
. i would- like to annce that the senate small business -committees hearing scheduled for april 3. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administration to make loans to small business concerns whose primary business is the communication of ideas. has been rescheduled for may 17. 1984. the hearing will commence at 10 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator sasser will chair the hearing. for further information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel for the committee. 2248487.
. i am proud to ho jean belhumer as connecticut small businessman of the year. he is a valuable asset to both connecticuts small business community and the nation. i k that i speak for all in the congress and indeed all of those whom we represent. when i offer the small business people of america a hearty congratulations on their past and present successes and extend the thanks of all americans.*
. i am today introducing legislation to amend the small business investment act of 1958 to create the corporation for small business investment. this new institution would be a governmentsponsored. private corporation which is designed to provide access to the private capital markets for small business investment companies (sbics) so they. in turn. can provide a stable and continuing flow of venture capital to small business. at the outset. i would like to point out that this legislation is being introduced in order to stimulate public discussion and cumment on a proposal which could have a significant impact on small business. despite evident obstacles. small business continues to play a vital role in preserving and improving our nations ecoic health. small business has been our unquestioned leader in job creation. product ination. and the development of new techogies. and the small business sector of our ecoy represents the most productive entrepreneurial system in the world. if newly established small firms and young companies with prospects for growth are to continue to flourish and play a major role in our ecoy. they must have access to an adequate flow of equity capital and longterm venture financing. these small. highrisk companies have traditionally found it difficult to obtain needed capital from conventional financing sources. and their access to sources of venture capital has been restricted. in addition. even though this countrys pool of venture capital has increased substantially over the past few years. a huge gap between the small business sectors critical need for growth capital and the availability of this type of financing continues to exist. i believe that this legislation presents a very creative and intriguing approach to the problem of making available a reliable and stable source of venture capital. at the same time. the legislation is complex and it raises a number of policy and technical issues which should be open to public discussion and comment. consequently. while i fully support the objective of improving the flow of venture capital to small business. i have introduced the legislation in an effort to initiate public dialog on the proposal. and it does  carry my endorsement at this time. the proposed legislation was developed through a joint effort of the national association of small business investment companies (nasbic) and the american association of miity enterprise small business investment companies (aamesbic). which are. respectively. the national trade associations for the sbic and mesbic industries. sbics are privately capitalized. owned and managed investment firms that provide equity capital. longterm financing. and .management counsel to new and expanding small business concerns. mesbics are a specialized group of sbics that invest exclusively in small firms owned by miities and other disadvantaged persons. authorized by congress in the small business investment act of 1958. sbics are licensed and regulated by the small business administration (sba). and they can borrow funds from the government on a longterm basis for reinvestment in. small business.* in 1972. mesbics were authorized by congress as a specialized type of sbic and were provided certain funding benefits in return for restricting their market for investments to disadvantaged firms. the primary benefits are that a mesbic can .sell its preferred stock to sba on attractive terms and can borrow funds on a longterm basis from sba at belowmarket rates.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee and the house small business committee will hold a joint conference on may 22. 1984. at 2 p.m. in room 8. 146 of the capitol. on the sba authorization bills. s. 1323 and h.r. 3020. for further information. please contact bob dotchin. staff director. of the committee at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a field hearing in eugene. oreg.. on may 30. 1984. on women en trepreneurs: their success and problems. the hearing will begin at 9 a.m. in studio one of the hult center. i eugene center. eugene. oreg. senator boa packwood will chair. for further information. please contact mary meyers mann of the committee staff. at 2242180.
madam president. i am pleased that the senate today is considering 8. 2069 a bill that. would permit sba to approve combined 7(a) business loans and 502/503 development company loans in excess of $500.000. i want to thank and commend senator pressler for his leadership on this issue. lie originally introduced the bill on ember 8. 1983. and recently has held hearings. the full committee met on may 8. 1984. and voted unanimously to report this bill to the full senate. madam president. as one of the coauthors of the small business administrations (sba) section 503 certified development company (cdc) program. i am basically pleased with its development since its inception in 1980. over 53.000 jobs have been created and over 450 cdcs nationwide have been formed. the program is beginning to realize its fill potential in local communities. the section 503 program is designed to make sba an active partner in local ecoic development. before a local development company can be certified for the 503 program. it must have an active board of directors whose members represent the local government. financial. and business sectors of the community. the creation or retentlol. of a significant number of jobs is a requirement before any 503 loan can be approved by sba. madam president. by law section 503 loans can only be used to help a small business to purchase fixed assets. without federal programs such as the 503 program. banks are often reluctant to make longterm financing available to small businesses. under the 503 program sba is authorized to guarantee debentures issued by cdcs to finance the purchase of land. plant. and equipment for a qualified small business to expand. if that business also needs working capital then the sba has combind the 7(a) regular business loan with the 503 loan in order to meet its financial needs. however. a recent sba gecneral counsels interpretation of the provisions of a 1981 law has limited the ability of sba to combine these two programs for a particular business. the effect of the counsels action has been to cut tle maximum amount of available assistance to an expanding business in half. under public law 9735. the recon ciliation and loan consolidation act of 1981. several sba loan programs were consolidated into sect ion 7 of the small business act. under its interpretrtion of that law. sba discontinued its practice of permitting small businesses to receive combined loans of up to $500.000 under the 7(a) regular business loan program and tip to $500.000 under the section 502 and 503 development company programs. inlstead. sba ruled that the combined 7(a) and 502/503 financing could  exceed $500.000. this interpretation is an unintended consequence of those statutory changes. senator pressler quickly responded to sbas change in policy by introducing s. 2069. the hearings that he chaired have shown that the previous sba policy was productive. several job creating projects which were completed. under the present policy would  have been done. thus. we need to act to clarify the congressional intent. madam president. this bill is sup. ported by small businesses. certified development companies. ecoic development specialists. and the admin. istration. cdcs in local communities need the flexibility provided by this bill to meet the different needs of small businesses. i strongly urge the senate to pass this legislation.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a full committee markup on 8. 2375. a bill to improve the operation of secondary market for loans guaranteed by the small business administration. on june 20. 1984. at 10 a.m.. in room 428a senate russell. for fur. ther information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the committee staff at 2248487.
. this legislation has the support of organizations and individuals representing all the major players in the market. including small businesses. commercial banks. investment banks. and broker/dealers. the committee has received testimony and letters of support from: the u.s. chamber of commerce. the small business united. the national small business association. the small business legislative council. the independent bankers association. the national association of small business investment companies. the national association of business development corporations. the smaller business association of new england. the american association of miity enterprise small business investment companies. the national council for urban ecoic development. the utah council of small business. and the independent business association of wisconsin. i urge my colleagues to join these organizations in supporting s. 2375 by voting in favor of this important piece of legislation.
. we are prepared to accept the amendmehts offered by the distinguished senator from michigan. and i wish to personally commend him for his input into this bill. le has been an outstanding member of the small business committee and more particularly the work which he has brought to the final product.
[for himself and mr. bumpers] submitted the following concurrent resolution. which was referred to the committee on rules and administration: 8. con. res. 140 resolved by the senate [the house of rep resentatives concurring] that a revised edition of senate document numbered 9644. entitled "handbook for small business." explaining programs of federal departments. agencies. offices. and commissions of benefit to small business and operating pursuant to various statutes enacted by the congress. shall be printed with illustrations as a senate document. and that there shall be printed six thousand additional copies for the use of the senate committee on small business. and three thousand additional copies for the use of the committee on small business of the house of representatives.
. all too often small firms are unable to compete for government contracts on an equal level with large businesses. in part this is due to the lack of timely and adequate ice of contracting opportunities made in the commerce business daily. for example. it is  unusual for a procurement ice to first appear in the commerce business daily on the same date that an agency solicitation is available. this puts small firms. especially those which can afford marketing representatives. at a competitive disadvantage in monitoring potential federal contracts. similarly. many businesses learn of the closing date for proposals only days before that date. in these cases. the businesses have almost chance to make a timely response to those solicitations. it is for that reason that we are reintroducing this statutory solution to this persistent small business problem. specifically. under this bill. interested parties would have 15 days from the appearance of a ice in the commerce business daily to request copies of a solicitation on competitively bid and negotiated government contracts. also. in most cases. the bill would provide at least 30 days from the issuance of a solicitation before a bid is due. where agencies are already required to publish ice in the commerce business daily and absent any exemption for more rapid purchasing. the legislation would statutorily provide prospective bidders with a minimum of 45 days for the solicitation and bidding process. the legislation also would alter the existing statutory exemptions from advertising in the publication. the committee on small business held 2 days of hearings and one markup session on this same legislation during the 97th congress. to facilitate its consideration this year. i am inserting a summary of the commerce business daily legislative history as reported by the committee last year:
. on february 11. 1983. the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market development and the senate commerce and transportations subcommittee on science will hold a joint hearing on the "obstacles to exporting faced by small businesses." the hearing will begin at 2 p.m.. -s 479 in the th auditorium of the new federal building. fourth floor. 915 second avenue. seattle. wash. senator slade gorton will chair the hearing. for further information. contact anne sullivan at 2243188.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee has rescheduled its january 21. 1983 oversight hearing on the small business development center program for february 8. 1983. beginning at 1:30 p.m.. in the fifth floor. irs conference room. federal building. 275 peachtree street ne.. atlanta. ga.
. i ask unanimous consent that the senate turn to the consideration of calendar order  3. s. 273. the miity small business pilot procurement act of 1983. under the following time agreement: 20 minutes of the bill to be equally divided between the chairman of the small business committee and the ranking miity member or their designees. that amendment be in order to the bill except the amendment reported by the small business committee. and that the agreement be in the usual form.
. i ask unanimous consent that following the disposition of calendar order  3. s. 273. today. the senate turn to the consideration of calendar order  4. s. 272. under the following time agreement: 30 minutes on the bill to be equally divided between the chairman of the small business committee and the ranking miity member or their designees. that the only amendment to be in order. other than the amendment reported by the small business committee. be an amendment to be offered by the senator from maine dealing with ification requirement. to be limited to 5 minutes. and that the agreement be in the usual form.
. on february 17. 1983. the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on s. 499. a bill to require the usage of taxexempt financing in connection with the small business administrations section 503 certified development company program. the hearing will begin at 2 p.m. in room 428a of the senate russell office building. senator damato will chair.
. pursuant to rule xxvi. paragraph 2. of the standing rules of the senate. i submit for publication in the congressional record. the rules of the committee on small business for the 98th congress. which were adopted by the committee on january 26. 1983. as follows:
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee markup on s. 499. a bill to require the usage of taxexempt financing in connection with the small business administrations section 503 loan program. on march 9. 1983. at 2 p.m.. in room 428asr.
. on march 16. 1983. the senate committee on small businesss subcommittee on ination and techogy will hold an oversight hearing on public law 97219. the small business ination research act. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. senate russell building. senator rudman will chair.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee meeting with its national advisory council on april 12. 1983. beginning at 2 p.m. in room 428a of the senate russell office building. for further information. please contract mary meyers of the committee staff at 2243840.
. the 25 men and women named to this council are involved daytoday in the operation of a working small business. they k firsthand what the difficulties of running a business are. they k personally the factors which impede their growth and make it impossible for them to expand and become stronger units in our overall ecoy. we on the small business committee listen to them and value their opinions because we k what they say comes from experience. what those 25 people told us yesterday was loud and clear. they want to hire. they want to expand. they want to help get the ecoy back on its feet in the best way they k howby creating jobs. that is why they passed a resolutionunanimously. i might addurging the congress to adopt legislation to implement the six recommendations which are in the bill you have before you today. as in the case of s. 360. this bill sets forth small business goals in the tax reform area for the 98th congress. s. 1043. along with s. 842. which i introduced earlier last month to provide for the creation of a small business participating debenture. lays out a series of alternatives for the congress to consider as we seek to find ways to foster job creation and small business growth. it is my hope that the small business committee and the finance committee will carefully consider these initiatives in light of their tremendous job creation potential. there is doubt. in these times of rising unemployment. that permanent. private sector employment must be expanded. and when it comes to jobs. small business is where the action is. small business is and has. been the leader in providing new jobs. this legislation will provide small firms with the basic fundamental tools they need for ecoic growth. so that they can continue to play that traditional and vitally important role.e by mr. damato (for himself and mr. moynihan):
. i hope my colleagues will carefully consider this legislation in light of the record of service of the legal services corporation in protecting basic civil rights in our society. the drumbeat of criticism of the corporation will doubtless continue. passage of this bill will  be an easy task. but it will be well worth the effort. because of the paramount importance of what is at stake.*
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a markup on pending legislation dealing with the small business administrations programs. on may 12. 1983. at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2248487.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees markup on pending legislation dealing with the small business administrations programs scheduled for may 12. 1983 at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a sr has been rescheduled for may 13. at 11 a.n. in room 428a sr. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on the family farm will hold a hearing on the impact of canadian agricultural imports and its effect on the small business community on june 29. 1983. at 10 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. senator damato will chair the hearing. for further information please contact john mcnamara of the committee staff at 224-
.. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees full committee markup on pending legislation scheduled for june 16. 1983. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a senate russell office building. has been postponed until further ice.
. i would like to ail. nce that the hearing for the senate small business committee on oversight of the small business development center program scheduled for june 21. 1983. has been rescheduled for july 19. 1983. in room 428a. senate russell office building. there will be a morning session which will begin at 8:30 a.m. and an aftern session which will begin at 2 p.m. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committee staff at 2245175.
i am delighted that the senate is today considering the conference report to s. 272. and i would like to congratulate senator pressler on bringing this bill to this point. this is his first bill as a member of this committee. and i compliment him on the fine work he has done in its behalf. briefly. the purpose of the bill is to improve small business access to federal procurement information by changing the procedures for advertising in the commerce business daily (cbd). s. 272 seeks to guarantee small business contractors their fair share of the federal procurement dollar by establishing statutory time limits for publishing advance ice of government contracts and for bidding on them. this legislation also revises many of the current law exemptions from advertising in the cbd and addresses a longstanding need to make sole source contracting a more accountable process. . this concludes my brief description of s. 272 as agreed to by the conferees. i am extremely pleased that we are at the final stage in passing this muchneeded legislation. again. i thank my colleagues on the senate small business committee as well as my good friends on the house committee for helping to make this bill a reality for the thousands of small business contractors who will benefit from it.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee and the house small business committees subcommittee on sba and sbic authority. miity enterprise and general small business problems. will hold a joint oversight hearing on the small business development center program. on july 6. 1983. the hearing will begin at 8:30 a.m. and will be located in the th auditorium of the federal building. fourth floor. 915 second avenue. seattle. wash. for further information. please contact robert dotchin. staff director of the small business committee. at 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees markup on pending legislation scheduled for july 14. 1983. has been rescheduled for july 18. 1983. beginning at 4 p.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further contact. please call mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business subcommittee on entrepreneurship and special problems facing small business. will hold a field hearing in eau claire. wis. on "special problems facing small business in the midwest." the hearing will be held on august 22. 1983. starting at 10 a.m. at the county board room of the eau claire county courthouse. for further information please contact michael morris of the committee staff at 2245175. senator kasten will chair.
. the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market developmtent has annced a change in its scheduled field hearing as originally annced august 4. 1983. the hearing on small business exports and export financing. originally scheduled for september 9. will  be held on september 12. 1983. in the hearing chambers of the metropolitan_ council. 300 metro square building. st. paul. minn.. starting at 9:30 a.m. for further information. please contact anne sullivan of the committee staff at 2245175. senator boscirwrrz will chair.*
. i would like to annce that the ftull committee of the senate small b~usiness committee will hold a markup on tuesday. september 20. 1983. to consider legislation to comply with the reconciliation instruction incorporated in house concurrent resolution 91. the -first concurrent budget resolution. the committee will also consider s. 1022. a bill to amend section 8(a) of the small business act to treat businesses owned by indian tribes as so. diaily and ecoically disadvantaged small business concerns. the markup will start at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i support this amendment. which would direct more funding to small businesses interested in exporting. before i speak specifically about this amendment though. i would like to take a few minutes to commend senator boschwitz. my good friend and colleague on the senate small business committee. for the outstanding job he has done generally in assisting small business exporters. at his suggestion as chairman of the small business export promotion and market development subcommittee. the small business committee conducted a survey of 6.500 practicing and potential small exporters. the purpose of the survey was to ascertain the obstacles to exporting as perceived by small firms. with a view toward. attempting to remedy the problems identified. one of the principle stumbling blocks cited by those surveycd was the dearth and inadequacy of export financing. following the compilation of the survey findings. senator boschwirz held a hearing regarding the exportimport banks assistance to small firms. at that hearing the chairman of eximbank. william h. draper. ackledged that only 3 percent of exims available financing went to small businesses. this is somewhat appalling to me. especially in light of the department of commerces estimates that while small firms account for only 10 percent of total annual exports. at least 20.000 of them have the potential to export competitively. following this hearing. senator boschwitz introduced an amendment to the eximbank reauthorization bill which gives small businesses a fairer share of exims available financing. i strongly support this amendment. i believe it realistieally and reasonably addresses the very serious problem which my colleague from minnesota has identified. again. i commend senator bosciiwitz for his persistence in pursuing the problems faced by small businesses and in arriving at a solution which would make a real and tangible difference to small exporters. as well as to the ecoy in general.*
. during the past 25 years. small and miityowned small businesses. backed with venture capital from small business investment companies (sbics) and miity enterprise small business investment companies (mesbics). have experienced extraordinary growth. opened the door to hundreds of thousands of employment opportunities and been in the forefront of our nations developments in techogy and ination. many of these prosperous. small. and miityowned small businesses would  have been able to begin their operations without the injection of seed capital from sbics and mesbics. these privately managed and organized financial institutions are licensed by the u.s. small business administration (sba). to provide equity capital. longterm loans. and management assistance to small firms. i do  need to tell you. in this day and age. that this service is desperately needed and appreciated by the small business community. as traditional credit markets become increasingly hesitant to take a chance on small. often untried and unproven. companies. the importance of sbics and mesb1cs in giving small companies the capital they need to grow and expand becomes ever greater.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a hearing on october 17. 1983. in nashville. tenn.. on the obstacles faced by small business in federal procurement. the hearing will begin at 1:45 p.m.. in room 29. legislative plaza. for further information. please contact bill montalto of the committee staff at 224-
. i fully support the amendment offered by senator nunn that would permit financial assistance in the 503 program to be made available in the those cases where ownership interests of the small business and ownership interests of the property to be financed with the proceeds of a section 503 loan are  identical because of the interfamily relationships. currently. this is  permitted because of sbas alterego rule which requires identical ownership interests. the small biusiness committee has heard testimo.. on this important issue which showed clearly that there are legitimate business reasons for different ownership interests between the small business concern and the property to be -financed. most of the cases cited to the committee involved reasons dealing with family relationships. therefore. i fully support senator nunns amendment. in addition. we have agreed to work together to determine the full extent to which the alterego rule impedes the legitimite use of the 503 program and whether further action is necessary. i have instructed the committee staff to work jointly with senator nunns staff in this endeavor.o
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a full committee markup on ember 1. 1983. on s. 1429. a bill to amend the small business act to provide for the continuation of the small business development center program. the markup will begin at 10 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committee staff at 2243840.
. i would like to annce that. the senate committee on small business will hold a hearing on ember 3. 1983. to examine the competitive situation existing between public utilities and certain small business owners. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. for further information. please contact steve snider on 2242306. or john mcnamara on 2242809. of the committee staff.
. it is an outrage to me that we should have to plead with the department of justice to enforce our antitrust law. it is an outrage. that congress should have to remind the department of justice that congress.  the courts. is the proper body for changing the law. if indeed. a change is necessary. congress can afford to sit back and ige the actions of the justice department. the role of small business in our free enterprise system should  be dealt with at the discretion of the administration. the longstanding bipartisan public policy prohibiting vertical price - restraints has provided small business with the opportunity to respond in inative ways to meet market demand for products at affordable prices. the past record of enforcement of our antitrust laws by both democratic and republican administrations has enabled consumers to benefit from the lower prices that competition brings. this amendment should make clear to our chief law enforcement agency that congress and the people of this country expect it to do just that: en force the laws. as they stand on the books. again. i commend the senator from new hampshire for his initiative and leadership on this issue. and i urge my colleagues to join with us in sending this loud and clear signal to the antitrust division of the department of justice.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on government regulation and paperwork will hold an oversight hearing on ember 15. 1983. on the paperwork reduction act of 1980. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a senate russell office building. senator hatch will chair. for further information. please contact john mcnamara of .the committee staff at 224stiicommitee on agricultural credit and
. i would like to annce that on ember 10. 1983. the senate small business committee will hold a full committee oversight hearing on "women in buisiness." the hearing will begin at 10:30 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell office building. senator boschiswtz will chair. for further information. please contact mary meyers of the committec staff at 244-
. i rise in support of h.r. 4013. a bill to extend the sunset provision of the small business development center program. and ask its favorable consideration. currently. the sbdc program. administered by the small business administration. is due to expire on october 1. 1984. on ember 11. 1983. the senate small business committee favorably reported out s. 1429. a bill to make the sbdc program permanent. i am pleased that the full senate unanimously passed this legislation today. unfortunately. the house will  be in a position to deal with s. 1429 until early next year. therefore. to avoid funding problems. this stopgap measure needs to be enacted. the problem is this: of the 27 sbdcs currently operating. about half are on a calendar year funding cycle. as opposed to a fiscal year. while there is still a year before the authorization for the program runs out. the administration informs me that unless the program is extended for 3 months. those centers on a calendar year cycle will suffer an interruption in their funding. so then. this is an interim measure. merely designed to insure the continued. steady operation of the program while our bill is being considered in the house. as such. i recommendand i have the concurrence of the small business committees ranking miity member on thisthat the senate act quickly to pass this interim legislation. thank you.
. i am pleased the senate is today considering s. 1429. legislation introduced by senator nunn and myself to strengthen. expand. and make permanent the small business development center program. currently. this program is due to expire on october 1. 1984.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on december 7. 1983. on obstacles facing small business concerns seeking to compete for federal procurement contracts. the committee will be receiving testimony on the problems confronted by small business and solutions offered by bills pending before the committee. especially s. 1730. "small business competition in contiacting act of 1983." the hearing will begin at 10:00 a.m.. ceremonial courtroom. room 2541 of the dirksen federal building. chicago. ill. for further information. please contact bill montalto of the committee staff at 224-
. i would like to annce that the committee on small business will hold a full committee hearing in oklahoma city. okla.. on january 17. 1984. to be chaired by senator don nickl.es. the purpose of the hearing is to receive testimony on the obstacles facing small business concerns attempting to compete for federal procurement contracts. in addition. testimony will be sought on the impact on smallbusiness resulting from labor surplus area considerations in the award of contracts by the department of defense. the hearing will begin at 1 p.m. and be held in a location to be annced. for further information. please contact william b. montalto. the committees procurement policy counsel. at 2243099. on january 24. 1984. the full committee of the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on federal antitrust enforcement and its impact on small business. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact michael morris. committee counsel at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees national advisory council will hold an allday meeting on march 15. 1984. starting at 8:30 a.m. in room 428a. russell senate office building. for further information. please contact bob dotchin. staff director of the committee. at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on march 9. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to restrict the authority of the small business administration to deny financial assistance to small business concerns solely because the primary business operations of such concerns relate to the communication of ideas. the hearinig will start at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. russell senate office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff at 2245175.
. the result of this legislation. in the final analysis. should be a more efficient government program that ultimately lowers the cost of borrowing for small business without imposing any additional costs on the government. i hope my colleagues will support this legislation and ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill be printed in the record.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees hearing on 8. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administration ito make loans to small business concerns whose primary business is the communication of ideas. scheduled for march 9. 1984. has been rescheduled for april 3. 1984. at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the small business committee staff. at 2248487.
. the advisory council has made an important contribution to the congressional deliberations on small business matters. i urge my colleagues to carefully review these resolutions. they accurately reflect some of the major concerns of small business owners in this nation. as chairman of the small business committee. i am deeply grateful to all the members who participated in this conference. i ask that the full text of the four resolutions. a list of the council members who attended the annual meeting and a story from the washington post of march 16 be printed in the record following this statement. the resolutions follow:
. last august i introduced s. 1730. the small business competition in contracting act of 1983. thirtytwo of my colleagues have juitned me as cosponsors of this legislation. 8. 1780 addresses several of the obstacles to competition that the small business community faces when it tries to compete for the more titan $150 billion the federal government spends each year purchasing goods and services from the private sector. 8. 1730 has become a focal point for the congress. federal agencies. and the contracting community. it highlights the difficulties faced by small bustnesses. we all k hat small business has the desire and the capability to provide quality products and services to the government expeditiously and at competitive prices. there are. however. a number of federal procurement laws. procedures. and agency practices that make it difficult. if  impossible. for many small businesses to fairly and fully compete for government contracts. during the past several months. within the senate small business committee. senator weicker has provided significant guidance and leadership by focusing our review on these obstacles which impede competition by small businesses. our committee has already held four field hearings: one chaired by my good friend from tennessee. snator sasser. one. by my good friend from wisconsin. senator kasten. one. by my good friend from oklahoma. seinator nickles. and. i chaired a hearing in chicago. two full committee hearings are scheduled for early april here in washington. building on all of these hearings. and relying on the outstanding staff work of bill montalto and alan chvotkin of the small business committee. senator weicker and i have developed what we consider to be an improved. "second generation" version of 8. 1730. it is also solidly based on an analysis of the wealth of information in congressional and executive branch studies relating to procurement issues. the new bill. which we are introducing today. addresses the same problems we sought to solve in introducing s. 1730. but does so in a more comprehensive way. this approach will  significantly alter the procurement system. it will. in fact. enhance competition. i have recently spoken to the small buisiines groups which originally suppoled 8. 1730. indicaling my support for the "new generation" bill. i have ailso contarted all 32 cosponsors of my original bill. urging thm to join with ieiiator wiicker and nie. as we intro(ire i il is iegislat ion. i fidl very strongly that this "new gen ai ion" vorsion of s. 1730 will provide .imall buvinessevs throughout our country with the neans to compete by 1)ip. lng to an end the governments past relance on sole source coni racit s.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold full committee hearings on s. 2489. the small business competition enhancement act. and s. 2434. "a bill to amend section 15 of the small business act by requiring the assignment of breakout procurement representatives at major procuring installations." on april 6. 1984. at 10 a.m. in room 428a. senate russell. and on april 12. 1984. at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a. senate russell. for further information. please contact william montalto. procurement counsel. of the committee staff at 2243099.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business comrnittees hearing on april 3. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administral ion to make loans to small business concemns whose primary business is tle communication of ideas. has been postponed until further ice.
. through these attainments. bill barth has left a legacy of high regard for small business enterprise throughout the country. he will be remembered for this and for the high qualities of dedication. decency. and fairness with which he went about his work. the small business community has lost much with his passing and he will be missed. it is only fitting that bill barth has been chosen to be hoed before those he represented so wellsmall businessas this years small business "accountant advocate of the year."e
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold an oversight hearing on june 6. 1984. on the impact of government competition on small business. the hearing will start at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator rudman will chair. for further information. please contact michael morris. counsel for the committee. on 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on export promotion and market development has scheduled a hearing on may 10. 1984. on the eximbanks administration of thesmall business setaside provisions of public law 98181. the hearing will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator boschwltz will chair. for further information. please contact stewart hudson of the committee staff at 224-
. i ask that these letters be printed in their entirety in the record. the letters follow: lion. iowell p. weicker. jr.. chairman. senate small business committee. washington. d.c. dear : small business united (gbu) a coalition of 14 regional. state and metropolitan trade association representing more than 60.000 small husinesses nationwide supports 8. 2375 and urges its quick enactment by the senate. the bill. providing for the pooled sale of small business administration (sba) 7(a) guaranteed loans into a secondary market. could dramatically improve small business access to capital and increase the efficiency of sbas loan program at financial cost to the federal government. as was shown in a recent general accounting office report on the 7(a) loan program. loans guaranteed by the ba are an important source of capital for small business. according to the gao "approximately 30 to 40 percent of the dollar amount of banks longterm financing (six years or more) to small businesses may carry an sba guarantee." by improving the salability of 7(a) loans in secondary markets. 8. 2375 enhances bank iquidity allowing banks to make more loans. both 7(a) guaranteed and guaranteed loans. thus small business. as well as other bank borrowers. will have increased access to capital. and market efficiency will be improved. sbu thanks you for sponsoring this bill and hopes it will soon become law. sincerely.
. i would- like to annce that the senate small business -committees hearing scheduled for april 3. 1984. on s. 2084. a bill to amend the small business act to allow the small business administration to make loans to small business concerns whose primary business is the communication of ideas. has been rescheduled for may 17. 1984. the hearing will commence at 10 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator sasser will chair the hearing. for further information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel for the committee. 2248487.
. i am proud to ho jean belhumer as connecticut small businessman of the year. he is a valuable asset to both connecticuts small business community and the nation. i k that i speak for all in the congress and indeed all of those whom we represent. when i offer the small business people of america a hearty congratulations on their past and present successes and extend the thanks of all americans.*
. i am today introducing legislation to amend the small business investment act of 1958 to create the corporation for small business investment. this new institution would be a governmentsponsored. private corporation which is designed to provide access to the private capital markets for small business investment companies (sbics) so they. in turn. can provide a stable and continuing flow of venture capital to small business. at the outset. i would like to point out that this legislation is being introduced in order to stimulate public discussion and cumment on a proposal which could have a significant impact on small business. despite evident obstacles. small business continues to play a vital role in preserving and improving our nations ecoic health. small business has been our unquestioned leader in job creation. product ination. and the development of new techogies. and the small business sector of our ecoy represents the most productive entrepreneurial system in the world. if newly established small firms and young companies with prospects for growth are to continue to flourish and play a major role in our ecoy. they must have access to an adequate flow of equity capital and longterm venture financing. these small. highrisk companies have traditionally found it difficult to obtain needed capital from conventional financing sources. and their access to sources of venture capital has been restricted. in addition. even though this countrys pool of venture capital has increased substantially over the past few years. a huge gap between the small business sectors critical need for growth capital and the availability of this type of financing continues to exist. i believe that this legislation presents a very creative and intriguing approach to the problem of making available a reliable and stable source of venture capital. at the same time. the legislation is complex and it raises a number of policy and technical issues which should be open to public discussion and comment. consequently. while i fully support the objective of improving the flow of venture capital to small business. i have introduced the legislation in an effort to initiate public dialog on the proposal. and it does  carry my endorsement at this time. the proposed legislation was developed through a joint effort of the national association of small business investment companies (nasbic) and the american association of miity enterprise small business investment companies (aamesbic). which are. respectively. the national trade associations for the sbic and mesbic industries. sbics are privately capitalized. owned and managed investment firms that provide equity capital. longterm financing. and .management counsel to new and expanding small business concerns. mesbics are a specialized group of sbics that invest exclusively in small firms owned by miities and other disadvantaged persons. authorized by congress in the small business investment act of 1958. sbics are licensed and regulated by the small business administration (sba). and they can borrow funds from the government on a longterm basis for reinvestment in. small business.* in 1972. mesbics were authorized by congress as a specialized type of sbic and were provided certain funding benefits in return for restricting their market for investments to disadvantaged firms. the primary benefits are that a mesbic can .sell its preferred stock to sba on attractive terms and can borrow funds on a longterm basis from sba at belowmarket rates.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee and the house small business committee will hold a joint conference on may 22. 1984. at 2 p.m. in room 8. 146 of the capitol. on the sba authorization bills. s. 1323 and h.r. 3020. for further information. please contact bob dotchin. staff director. of the committee at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a field hearing in eugene. oreg.. on may 30. 1984. on women en trepreneurs: their success and problems. the hearing will begin at 9 a.m. in studio one of the hult center. i eugene center. eugene. oreg. senator boa packwood will chair. for further information. please contact mary meyers mann of the committee staff. at 2242180.
madam president. i am pleased that the senate today is considering 8. 2069 a bill that. would permit sba to approve combined 7(a) business loans and 502/503 development company loans in excess of $500.000. i want to thank and commend senator pressler for his leadership on this issue. lie originally introduced the bill on ember 8. 1983. and recently has held hearings. the full committee met on may 8. 1984. and voted unanimously to report this bill to the full senate. madam president. as one of the coauthors of the small business administrations (sba) section 503 certified development company (cdc) program. i am basically pleased with its development since its inception in 1980. over 53.000 jobs have been created and over 450 cdcs nationwide have been formed. the program is beginning to realize its fill potential in local communities. the section 503 program is designed to make sba an active partner in local ecoic development. before a local development company can be certified for the 503 program. it must have an active board of directors whose members represent the local government. financial. and business sectors of the community. the creation or retentlol. of a significant number of jobs is a requirement before any 503 loan can be approved by sba. madam president. by law section 503 loans can only be used to help a small business to purchase fixed assets. without federal programs such as the 503 program. banks are often reluctant to make longterm financing available to small businesses. under the 503 program sba is authorized to guarantee debentures issued by cdcs to finance the purchase of land. plant. and equipment for a qualified small business to expand. if that business also needs working capital then the sba has combind the 7(a) regular business loan with the 503 loan in order to meet its financial needs. however. a recent sba gecneral counsels interpretation of the provisions of a 1981 law has limited the ability of sba to combine these two programs for a particular business. the effect of the counsels action has been to cut tle maximum amount of available assistance to an expanding business in half. under public law 9735. the recon ciliation and loan consolidation act of 1981. several sba loan programs were consolidated into sect ion 7 of the small business act. under its interpretrtion of that law. sba discontinued its practice of permitting small businesses to receive combined loans of up to $500.000 under the 7(a) regular business loan program and tip to $500.000 under the section 502 and 503 development company programs. inlstead. sba ruled that the combined 7(a) and 502/503 financing could  exceed $500.000. this interpretation is an unintended consequence of those statutory changes. senator pressler quickly responded to sbas change in policy by introducing s. 2069. the hearings that he chaired have shown that the previous sba policy was productive. several job creating projects which were completed. under the present policy would  have been done. thus. we need to act to clarify the congressional intent. madam president. this bill is sup. ported by small businesses. certified development companies. ecoic development specialists. and the admin. istration. cdcs in local communities need the flexibility provided by this bill to meet the different needs of small businesses. i strongly urge the senate to pass this legislation.
. i would like to annce that the senate committee on small business will hold a full committee markup on 8. 2375. a bill to improve the operation of secondary market for loans guaranteed by the small business administration. on june 20. 1984. at 10 a.m.. in room 428a senate russell. for fur. ther information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the committee staff at 2248487.
. this legislation has the support of organizations and individuals representing all the major players in the market. including small businesses. commercial banks. investment banks. and broker/dealers. the committee has received testimony and letters of support from: the u.s. chamber of commerce. the small business united. the national small business association. the small business legislative council. the independent bankers association. the national association of small business investment companies. the national association of business development corporations. the smaller business association of new england. the american association of miity enterprise small business investment companies. the national council for urban ecoic development. the utah council of small business. and the independent business association of wisconsin. i urge my colleagues to join these organizations in supporting s. 2375 by voting in favor of this important piece of legislation.
. we are prepared to accept the amendmehts offered by the distinguished senator from michigan. and i wish to personally commend him for his input into this bill. le has been an outstanding member of the small business committee and more particularly the work which he has brought to the final product.
[for himself and mr. bumpers] submitted the following concurrent resolution. which was referred to the committee on rules and administration: 8. con. res. 140 resolved by the senate [the house of rep resentatives concurring] that a revised edition of senate document numbered 9644. entitled "handbook for small business." explaining programs of federal departments. agencies. offices. and commissions of benefit to small business and operating pursuant to various statutes enacted by the congress. shall be printed with illustrations as a senate document. and that there shall be printed six thousand additional copies for the use of the senate committee on small business. and three thousand additional copies for the use of the committee on small business of the house of representatives.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold hearings on february 21 and 25. 1985. on a bill to authorize funding for the small business administration for fiscal years 1986 through 1988. the hearing on february 21 will begin at 9:30 a.m. and on february 25. at 10 a.m. both hearings will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. senator weicker will chair the hearings. for further information. please contact mike haynes of the committee staff. at 2248487.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business full committee hearings scheduled for february 21 and 25. 1985. on s. 408. a bill to authorize funding for the small business administration for fiscal years 1986 through 1988. starting at 9:30 a.m. on the 21st has been changed to 9:00 a.m.. and on the 25th. from 10:00 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. for further information please contact mike haynes. chief counsel for the committee. at 224-
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold 2 additional days of hearings on s. 408. a bill to authorize funding for the small business administration for fiscal years 1986 through 1988. the hearings will be held on february 28. 1985 and march 7. 1985. beginning at 9:30 a.m.. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact mike haynes. chief counsel of the committee. at 2248487.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee meeting in executive session on tuesday. march 26. 1985 to consider s. 408. a bill to provide program levels and authorizations for programs at the small business administration for- fiscal years 1986. 1987. and 1988. the markup will begin at 11:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information please contact bob dotchin. staff director. at 2248494.
. the committee on small business has recently completed a series of three hearings to consider s. 408. legislation senator bumpers and i introduced on february 6. to authorize funding for small business administration programs and activities for the next 3 years. during the course of these hearings. key issues affecting the small business sector and small business administration programs were raised by witnesses and discussed. it is my wish to bring to the attention of the full senate each of these issues and worthwhile discussions entered into. today i begin with an overview of the sbas 503 certified development company loan program. the 503 certified development company [cdc] loan program. established in 1980 by section 503 of the small business investment act. provides longterm. fixed asset financing to viable small businesses through local development companies certified by the sba. the program fills the current longterm credit gap for small businesses. a clear imperfection in the marketplace. and has fulfilled its mandate by spurring ecoic development and jobs at low cost to the government. as one of the federal governments primary ecoic development programs. 503 represents the classic partnership between state and local governments and the private sector in making longterm capital available to healthy small businesses for planned expansion and job creation. section 503 authorizes the sba to guarantee debentures issued by certified development companies [cdcsi to finance the acquisition of land. plants. and equipment for small business expansion. with a commitment for a substantial number of new jobs resulting from the expansion before any loan is made the sba can guarantee up to 40 percent of the project costs. with 50 percent coming from a private sector lender. and 10 percent from the small business itself. 541 cdcs have been certified. funding over 2.300 projects. creating or retaining nearly 100.000 jobs. in every quarter since the programs inception. more and more jobs have been created. and the federal commitment per job has declined. this is a federal program that works. and works well. i ask to have printed in the record a statebystate listing of current certified development companies.
. just this past week. frank fahrenkopf. chairman of the republican national committee. released the policy statement of the rnc small business advisory council in which the importance of the small business administration and its programs to the nations 14 million small businesses is discussed. unlike the administration. the rnc small business advisory council has recommended maintaining the sba as an independent agency. and. in its statement. recognizes the important financial assistance provided particularly through sbas guaranteed lending programs. mkny of its recommendations are similar to the legislation senator bumpers and i have introduced. s. 408. which is  sponsored by 23 members of this body. i ask that  of the republican national committee. attached. for your review. is the sbacs position statement concerning the proposed abolition of the u.s. small business administration. while it is  a mirror image of the administrations point of view. the position of the rnc small business advisory council calls for needed functions to continue and some costly and inefficient programs to end. more importantly. while the means may differ. the end result is the same. an important step toward reducing the federal deficit and a leaner bureaucracy which provides only. needed services to small business owners. periodically. you will receive other rnc small business advisory council position statements. they will be insightful presentations concerning issues critical to the small business community. in a sense. they will be our contribution to the legislative. dialogue which enriches our form of government. very truly yours.
. i would like to annce that on may 22. 1985 the senate small business committees family farm subcommittee will hold a hearing on small issue industrial development bonds as a source of capital for small business expansion. the hearing will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building and will begin at 2 p.m. senator larry pressler will chair the hearing. for further information. please contact bob wilson. of the committee staff. at 2245175 or tom hohenthaner of senator presslers staff at 2245842.
. i would like to annce that on june 11. 1985. the senate small business committees family farm subcommittee will hold a hearing on small issue industrial development bonds as a source of capital for small business expansion. mr. ronald pearlman. assistant secretary for tax policy is scheduled to testify. the hearing will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building and will begin at 2 p.m. senator ianny prnssm:r will chair the hearing. for further information. please call bob wilson. of the committee staff. at 2245175 or tom hohenthaner of senator presslers staff at 2245842.
. i would like to annce that on june 18. 1985. the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on "community right to k" legislation affecting the use. manufacture. or storage of hazardous chemicals. the hearing will focus on the regulatory and paperwork impact of this legislation on small business. the hearing will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building and will begin at 10 a.m. senator alfonse damato will chair the hearing. for further information. please call skip waddell. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. s. 408. as amended. has the support of thie administration. as well as several small business organizations. including nationiol federation of independent business. small business united. small business legislative council. national association of small business investment compatries. and american association of miity enterprise smill business investment companies. i ask unanimous consent that a letter from jim sanders. administrator of the small business administration. and letters from the abovementioned organizations in support of s. 408. as amended. be printed in the record.
. i rise to oppose the amendment. it has the features of the proposal of the administration. which was rejected in the course of the compromise on sba. the administration put forth a program advocating sales of assets that was rejected in the course of the negotiations. the moneys lost would be substantial. i do  think the taxpayers should have to foot that bill. i oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from new york which was defeated the last time it was presented to this body by 71 to 26. i think it important to maintain the integrity of the agreement between the administration and the small business committee. and hope that the senate will confirm that in rejection of this amendment. at the appropriate time i shall move to table the amendment of the distinguished senator from new york.
. i applaud all who worked so diligently to craft this bill which  only makes essential clarifications of eaja. but most important. reauthorizes and extends its provisions. this bill is vital to small business and i urge my colleagues to support it.
. i would like to annce that the small business committee will hold a series of field hearings on the impact of the various tax reform proposals on small business. on august 16. 1985. there will be a hearing at the clark county pud building. in vancouver. wa. convening at 9:15 a.m. on august 19. 1985 there will be a hearing held at the jackson federal building. in seattle. wa. it will begin at 1:30 p.m. on august 26. 1985. the small business committee will hold a hearing in west memphis. ar. and on august 27. 1985 there will be aher hearing in fort smith. ar. a time and place for these two hearings will be annced at a later date. in the meantime. if anyone needs more information they can call stewart hudson. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees oversight hearing on the small business administrations veterans assistance programs has been postponed until further ice. for further information. please contact lisa linden. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees oversight hearing on the small business administrations veterans assistance programs has been rescheduled for wednesday. ember 13. 1985. the hearing will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building and will begin at 10 a.m. for further information. please call lisa linden. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. .i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee field hearing on ember 16. 1985. on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business. the hearing will be held in the legislative plaza located at sixth and union street in nashville. tn. the hearing will begin at 12:30 p.m. for further information. please call bob wilson. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. in order to further examine the complexities of this problem. the senate small business committee will be holding comprehensive fact finding hearings on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business. in the next few months. it is my intention to chair a series of washington hearings and on ember 16. 1985. senator sasser will chair a committee hearing in nashville. tn. on this important subject. i ask that the resolution be printed in the record. the resolution follows:
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee field hearing on december 2. 1985. on the implementation of the prompt payment act of 1981. public law 97177. the hearing will commence at 11 a.m. and will be held at the folk city council chamber in folk. va. for further information. please call bill montalto. of the committee staff at 2245175.
furthermore. i understand that in recent meetings of the republican national committees advisory council and the small business administrations national advisory council. the problem has been the subject of lengthy discussions. furthermore. on september 10. 1985. the small business legislative council. a consortium of washington small business trade associations. wrote to president reagan asking him to establish a presidential task force to look into this issue. i realize that several other committees have already begun to look at proposals which deal with aspects of this problem. particularly in the areas of product liability and professional liability reform. in fact the small business committees advisory council resolution supported the concept of a uniform federal standard on product liability. but as one member of the council pointed out. the scope of the current crisis is much more extensive than manufacturing firms. it also effects many service businesses which provide a significant number of new jobs for our ecoy. similarly. tort law reform may address only a part of the problem. . in order to further examine the complexities of this problem. -the senate small business committee will be holding comprehensive fact finding hearings on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business. in the next few months. it is my intention to chair a series of washington hearings and on ember 16. 1985. senator sasser will chair a committee hearing in nashville. tn on this important subject.e
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will be holding two field hearings in south dakota on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business. the first hearing will take place on december 23. 1985 at 10 a.m. at the holiday inn in sioux falls. the second hearing will be on december 30. 1985 at the hotel alex johnson in rapid city. it will commence at 10 a.m. for further informaton. please call bob wilson of the cqmmittee staff at 2245175. or kevin schieffer of senator larry presslers staff at 224-
. the record is clear that small inative firms and independent inventors can afford to pay the full costs of patent user fees without this subsidized fee schedule. accordingly. it is imperative h.r. 2434. which would continue this twotiered fee schedule. be reported out of committee. therefore. i urge the subcommittee on patents. trademarks and copyrig ht to act immediately on this measure so that the high costs associated with the actual processing of patent applications will  preclude small businesses. independent inventors. and profit organizations from applying for u.s. patents.*
. senator bumpers. the small business committees ranking member. has -also reviewed this bill carefully and concurs in my view that this bill will serve to clarify the original congressional intent with regard to sbic interest rates. we jointly recommend that this bill pass and be enacted into law.
. the small purchase procurement simplification initiative of the committee on small business is a major undertaking that i wanted to share with my colleagues. once again. i enlist their suggestions and their support. for if our effort is successful the ultimate beneficiaries will be many thousands of small business government contractors and the government agencies to whom they wil be providing their supplies. services. and construction.e
. i would like to. annce- that the senate small business committee will hold 2. days of heaings on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business. the hearings will be held on february 20 and- 21.1986 in room 428a of the. russell senate office building. and both. will commence at 9:30 am.. for further information. please call bob wilson or erline patrick. of the committee staff at. 22451.5.
. the concrete benefits of franchising to the businessman. to the consumer. and to the country are clear. the success of franchising also affirms that the entrepreneurial spirit and american khow are strongly egh engrained in the fabric of this country to surmount the ecoic challenges that continue to face us. the time has come to recognize the benefits of. franchising and the association that has represented it so well in washington for the past 25 years. accordingly. together with my good friend and distinguished colleague. the ranking miity member of the senate small business committee. senator bumpers. we have submitted this resolution. to commemorate the. 25th anniversary of the international franchise association. we do this to hothe signflcant contribution of franchising to the american ecoy. and to recognize the important role of the international franchise association in fostering a way of doing business so important to our. nations small business men and women.e
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees february 21. 1986. hearing on the cost and availability of liability insurance has been rescheduled for 9 a.m. the hearing will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building as previously annced. for further information. please call bob wilson or erline patrick of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on ination and techogy will hold two oversight hearings on the small business ination and research program. public law 97219. the first hearing will be held on march 3. 1986 at the hilton in merrimack. nh. and will commence at 9 a.m. the second hearing is scheduled for march 11. 1986 in washington. dc. the hearing will be held in room 428a. of the russell senate office building and will begin at 9:30 a.m. for further information. please call anne caplin of senator rudmais office at 2243324. or skip waddell of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to insert. for the record. the following specific list of recommendations formulated by the key small business participants from each state which clearly reflect their strong desire and need for the lending. management assistance and disaster loan services provided for over 30 years by the sba.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on h.r. 2787. a bill to extend the small business administration pilot program under section 8 of the small business act on march 27. 1986. the hearing will commence at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call erline patrick of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on entrepreneurship and special problems facing small business has rescheduled its march 25. 1986 hearing on the entrepreneurial spirit in america for thursday. march 27. 1986. the hearing will commence at 2 p.m. and will be held. in room 428a. of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call skip waddell of the committee staff at 2245175. or steve loucks of senator kastens office at 2244652.
. pursuant to rule xxvi. paragraph 2 of the standing rules of the senate. i submit for printing in the congressional record the current rules of the committee on small business for the 99th congress. the rules follow
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold two field hearings in wisconsin on the impact of the insurance liability crisis on small business. the first hearing will be held on april 7. 1986. in green bay. and the second will be held on april 14. 1986. in eau claire. the time and location will be determined at a later date. for further information. please call erline patrick. of the committee staff at 2245175 or steve loucks of senator kastens office at 2244632.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a field hearing on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business in eau claire. wi. on april 14. 1986. the hearing will be held at the city hall council chambers in eau claire. and will commence at 9 a.m. for further information. please call erline patrick of the committee staff at 2245175. or steve loucks of senator kastens office at 2244632.
. i would like lo annce that the senate small business committee will hold a hearing on tuesday. april 22. 1986 on the implementation of title xviii of public law 99272. the reconciliation act. the hearing will commence at 2 p.m. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call bob wilson. chief counsel of the committee at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee has rescheduled its hearing on the implementation of title xviii of public law 99272. the reconciliation act. for monday. april 28. 1986. the hearing will commence at 11 a.m.. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call bob wilson.. chief counsel for the committee at 2245175.
again. under senate concurrent resolution 120. the small business committees reconciliation instruction would require $856 million of outlay savings in fiscal year 198789. it is my understanding that the selfsupporting loan concept is  binding on the small business committee if we find aher way to meet our reconciliation instruction.
. i ask that the full text of the eight resolutions adopted by the national advisory council. along with a list of all the small business owners who participated in this 2day forum. be printed in the record.
i thank my good friend. the senator from wisconsin. i want to commend the distinguished senator from tennessee for his statement. as he ks. neither i  any of the republican members of the committee are on his resolution. which does  mean to say the sentiments that he expressed are  shared by many of us on the republican side of the committee. i also have the obligation. as chairman of the small business committee. to try to negotiate a way out of this very difficult and unacceptable situation visavis mr. heatherly. i am in the process of trying to do that. and i can assure the senator from tennessee that should those efforts come to avail in the very near futureso we are  talking about something that is going to be postponedi. and i think many of my colleagues. will join with him on his resolution. in the meantime. i will continue to try to pursue this matter to a more satisfactory conclusion with the white house. i appreciate the courtesy of my distinguished colleague from wisconsin. and i thank him.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a field hearing on the cost and availability of liability insurance for small business on friday. may 30. 1986. in wausau. wi. the hearing will be held in the branch one courtroom of the marathon county courthouse. the hearing will commence at 9 a.m. for further information. please call erline patrick of the committee staff at 2245175 or steve loucks of senator kastens office at 2244632.
 of sencore. inc.. in sioux falls. sd.. for being selected as south dakotas small business person of the year. although herb is  one of my constituents. i have had the pleasure of working with him in my role as chairman of the small business committee. herb founded sencore in 1952 with $800. today his electronic manufacturing firm is netting more than $15 million in yearly sales and profits of more than $2 million a year. for 4 years herb has served as a member of the committees national advisory council. the council which is the first citizens advisory group to be established in the senate. consists of. 25 small business owners from all over the united states. members of the council come to washington once a year at their own expense to provide the conunittee with a grassroots perspective on issues affecting small business. herbs involvement with the council over the past few years has been invaluable. his active participation at council meetings combined with his unique insight into the problems affecting the small business community has been of tremendous help to the committee in formulating its legislative agenda. again. i wish to congratulate herb bowden for his outstanding contributions to the small business community and his work on behalf of the senate small business committees national advisory council.e
. what makes heralding the achievements of phil edelstein and the danbury plumbing supply co. so rewarding is the fact that the federal government. and. to be exact. the small business administration. played a role in the success story. and today. there are those who will make the case for terminating the agency. all i will say to the critics is that if they would get away from the anecdotal reports of waste at the agency. examine the record and get a good look at the benefits that have been derived by the federal government lending a helping hand to businessmen like phil edelstein. then i think we could end this insidious debate and get on with continuing assisting small business in america.*
. the regulatory flexibility act was intended to force departments and agencies to analyze the impact of proposed regulatory activities on small businesses. and when possible. to tailor alternative regulatory and paperwork requirements to fit the resources of small firms. while it is often the business of government to regulate companies. to the extent possible. it should be fully aware of the impact its regulations will have on those it supervises. by its very terms. however. the act only applies to regulations on which public comment is required by the administrative procedure act. unfortunately. under the a.p.a. interpretative rules do  require ice and comment procedures. and the irs takes the position therefore. that it falls outside the context of the act when it issues such interpretative letters. which are a mainstay of the agency. the irs has concluded that it need  comply with the provisions of the regulatory flexibility act. well. hing could be further from the intent of congress. federal agency has as large a regulatory impact on small business as the internal revenue service. every time the irs issues a new regulation or a new interpretative letter. small businesses across the country are affected. and yet. if the irs promulgates its change in procedure in the form of an interpretative letter. it can ige the mandate of the regulatory flexibility act and proceed without regard to the impact on small businesses. and without first attempting to devise simpler. or less burdensome provisions. the irs. which can readily disrupt the planning and operation of a small business with the shortest interpretative letter. should be complying with the regulatory flexibility act. that was the intent of congress back in 1980. and its a shame that we have to revisit the act today to make that point crystal clear. and so. i urge the senate to support this amendment in order that the irs. the agency that most affects the small business community by its various proncements must fully comply with theletter and spirit of the regulatory flexibility act.*
 to submit to the senate a inee for the position of administrator of the small business administration. the markup will commence at 11:30 a.m. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call bob dotchin. staff director of the committee at 2245175.
the committee report directs the administrator of the small business administration -to promptly dismiss frivolous appeals. it is certainly  our intent to allow the appeals process to be dragged out and thereby offer small businesses an avenue to delay contract awards to sheltered workshops.
. evidence from all sources shows us that america is experiencing an alarming and unprecedented slippage of its position as the preeminent leader in the international industrial. ecoic. and techogical marketplace. our ecoy shifted dramatically over the last decade from that of the old smokestack industry to one based primarily on high techogy. service industries and small business. our ability to regain the marketshare we have lost will be very dependent upon the continued investment and inativeness of the small entrepreneur. the role of the university in providing the degree of science and techogy base needed for a strong national defense and for the health and wellbeing of the u.s. ecoy has been amply proven. the small business has an important role to play in the process of new techogical ination. new product development and the creation of jobs. the chance to become competitive relies extensively on collaborative efforts between the university and the small entrepreneur. however. the benefits of such collaboration are being hindered. while the university is often a powerhouse of new techogy resources. there exists mechanism for transferring the techogy and information resources from the university laboratory to the small business venture. new techogy and talent developing at universities is never utilized to the degree that it could by the small entrepreneur. the war against foreign competition can be won. but it requires the kind of commitment that existed during the early 1970s. before america became so sure of itself that it ceased making effort to remain competitive. we need productive partnerships among government. small industry. and universities to build upon our industrial and techogical resources in order to regain the competitive advantage among our foreign adversaries. a techogy transfer institute. as authorized in this amendment. will demonstrate the effectiveness of this kind of partnership and federal involvement. the return on this commitment will far exceed the initial dollars invested. i urge the adoption of the amendment.*
. privatization is in the vogue . and everyone will agree that at a minimum cosbi represents a step in the right direction. an identical bill has been introduced in the house of representatives by parren mitchell. chairman of the house small business committee and hearings have been held. i ask unanimous consent that a sectionbysection analysis of the bill along with the bill itself be printed in the record.
 of shaw mudge & co. in stamford. ct. cochairmen of the connecticut small business conference and the travelers insurance co. for their ledadership. the survey will provide federaland state policymake.rs with a unique perspective on an important. highly diverse. entrepreneurial sector of our states ecoy.0
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on s. 2647. a bill to create the corporation for small business investment. the hearing is scheduled for thursday. august 7. 1986. and will begin at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call ed tiryakian. of the committee staff at 2245175.
. i would like to take take this opportunty to congratulate and thank dr. wi]liam c. flewellen. director of the institute for business at the university of georgia in athens. for his outstanding work and commitment to the small business development center program in his home state of georgia and throughout the country. as chairman of the senate committee on small business. i have had the pleasure of watching this unique program grow and develop into one of the most important and effective management assistance programs offered by the small business administration esbai. the program which originated in 1977 on a pilot basis at nine universities in the states of california. maine. new jersey. georgia. florida. missouri. nebraska and the district of columbia was designed to link together the resources of the private sector and the government into a unique partnership that would offer free and comprehensive management and technical assistance to potential or existing small business owners. today. there are 45 small business development centers throughout the country providing oneoe counseling to countless small business owners on a wide variety of issues ranging from international trade. procurement assistance. office automation services and capital formation. much of the success of this program is due to dr. flewellen. who provided the national impetus and leadership for the establishment of the small business development center program. he recognized the importance of small business and the need to foster the growth of the entrepreneurial spirit in america. throughout his tenure at the university of georgia. dr. flewellen has provided the sbdc program with sound counsel. advice and support and has made it a model for other states. his work has made the difference between success and failure for many small businesses. again. i want to commend dr. flewellen for his sponsorship and dedication to the sbdc program and wish him continued success in his work to aid this countrys small business community.e
. i commend all of the small business delegates for taking the time from their busy schedules and. be willing to pay the expenses to participate in this important national event. this grassroots small business input will help to guide the activities of the senate small business committee.o
. i rise today to urge my colleagues to support legislation which is extremely important to the nations techogical base and of vital concern to the small business community. the delegates to the white house conference on small business voted as their 16th recommendation that the congress should reauthorize their sbir program through the enactment of h.r. 4260. on august 13. 1986. the house of representatives passed. by a vote of 4211. h.r. 4260. a bill to amend the sunset provision of the small business ination development act of 1982. public law 97219. under this law. each agency with a research and development [r&d] budget of $100 million or more is required to setaside 1.25 percent of its extramural research budget for small business. the act is scheduled to sunset on september 30. 1988. however. h.r. 4260 would extend the small business ination research [sbiri program to september 30. 1993. and directs the comptroller general to issue two reports on the results of the sbir program to congress later than december 31. 1988 and december 31. 1991. in addition h.r. 4260 specifically provides that funds appropriated to the department of defense under category 6.6operational systems developmentare to be excluded from its extramural base for purposes of calculating its sbir program budget. given the success of the sbir program to date and the widespread support for its continuation. i urge the senate to extend the life of this important research and development program.
s budget. while ensuring the law was faithfully executed. harrys death was a severe loss to the agency. his life is an example for all those who wish to consider public service. harry carver made a significant contribution to this nation. he will be missed by all those who worked to assist and promote the small business community. my heartfelt sympathy goes to harrys wife. betty and his three sons.
. this is the type of provision which does a disservice to our tax code. it is special interest legislation which harms a private.- forprofit small business. instead of hampering small business which is the lifeblood of the ecoy and the primary source of new jobs in the united states. we should be assuring small business a level playing field. i intend to investigate the pervasiveness of this type of government intrusion on small business early in the next congress.
. i would like to explain to my senate colleagues the small business committees decision with regard to title ix of h.r. 5300. the reconciliation act. the senate. to meet its mandated savings. had proposed the sale by the secretary of the treasury of guaranteed loans from the portfolio of section 503 debentures in sufficient quantities to meet the goal of $412 million over 3 years. the house. by contrast. had proposed the creation of a new governmentsponsored enterprise called cosbi. which would purchase the entire billion dollar portfolio of sbic loans currently held at the feb. thereby producing the necessary savings.
given the intensity of administration opposition to the version of cosbi under discussion and given the tight timeframe within whichithe committees were expected to reach an agreement. the senate conferees felt it imprudent to continue to review such sweeping and complex legislation as cosbi within the constraints of the reconciliation process. the senate small business committee therefore made a counteroffer to. the house to sell loans from the 503 portfolio currently at the federal financing bank. the house rejected that offer and the conference was deadlocked. in the interest of  jeopardizing the entire reconciliation bill. the house and senate small business committees agreed to disagree. this decision to disagree must be understood in the context of the entire $15 billion reconciliation bill. passage of h.r. 5300 will generate egh spending reductions in fiscal year 1987 to avoid the prospect of aher painful round of acrosstheboard percentage cuts. or sequestration. called for under the gram. i believe that we can build upon the significant progress on cosbi that was made in the reconciliation conference. i intend actively to pursue the cosbi concept next year and will reintroduce legislation to create the corporation next january. the enactment of cosbi will be one of the committees top priorities for the 100th congress. in the interim period. i will be meeting with all interested parties in an effort to resolve some of the outstanding and difficult issues.
. the record is clear that small firms and independent inventors are the most inative sector of the .business community. it is also clear that these entities can afford to pay the full costs of patent user fees without this subsidized fee schedule. the successful passage of this legislation will mark a great achievement for small businesses. independent inventors. and profit organizations. and will make a vital contribution to the nations techogical base by encouraging these entities to apply for u.s. patents. therefore. i strongly urge my colleagues to support passage of h.r. 2434.
. if one looks beyond the political posturing framing this issue you find the startling facts of the matter. the 1985 report by the commission on executive legislative and judicial salaries. headed by our former colleague. nicholas brady. found that the purchasing power of corporate executives pay increased by 68.5 percent between 1969 and 1984. meanwhile members of congress have experienced a 39percent decrease in purchasing power during that same timeframe. the 1986 commission report points out that between 1969 and 1975. the salary of a member of congress represents an increase of less than onehalf of the governmentcalculated costofliving increases during the same timeframe. wonder qualified people with families to support decline to run for congress. well. my amendment would resolve much of this dilemma. by compensating senators fairly and by eliminating hoaria. we would assure the american people that their elected representatives are  beholden to special interest groups for 30 or 40 percent of their salaries. this amendment would mean that senators would  have to travel the countryside annually in search of a decent standard of living from the pockets of special interest groups. second. i am  trying to make anyone rich.  bankrupt anyone with this amendment. i am simply saying. lets pay ourselves a decent wage. from one sourcethe federal treasury. lets set a pay scalesince it is our obligation under the u.s. constitutionwill encourage men and women from all financial walks of life to serve as u.s. senators or members of the house of representatives. to seek government careers and to strive to become federal judges. i have apologies for myself or for my 99 colleagues.  for the federal civil or executive service. this is a quality group of hardworking and hoable people with whom i am privileged to serve. fair and sensible compensation is  selfserving to this body. but rather an extension of public service. in fact. i am reminded of the comments of former congressman ben johnson of kentucky. who said in 1925: if my constituents should say that i am  worth $10.000 a year here. then my answer to them is. send somebody who is.
. i urge my colleagues to support this measure. as i have stated. it is a controversial measure. it was voted out by the small business committee by a vote of 170. i urge my colleagues to support the bill.*
 with the international communication industries association should be commended for spearheading the business communitys effort to see that timely payments are made for the goods and services it provided to the federal government. the national federation of independent business. national small business united. and the small business legislative council all made vital contributions to see that this legislation passed the senate and. i am certain. will see it through the house and enacted into law. it is important to e that s. 328 also has garnered the support of a broad array of associations that represent the "top 100" contractors with the federal government. it makes clear something that i have always believedthat cashflow is important to all firms in that one likes to find themselves having to drum payments out of any customer. including uncle sam. finally. i salute senators trible. sasser. levin-. bumpers. glenn. and roth for their commitment to the principal of timely payment practices by the government.
. it is my distinct pleasure to wish "happy birthday" to the small businessanswer desk on the occasion .of its fifth anniversary of service to americas small business community. as chairman .of the small business committee. i wrote to the administrator of the small business administration sba] urging him to institute a tollfree -telephone nfformation/referral service in early 1982. on october 14. 1982. the small business answerdesk hotline was established by the office of advocacy at sba -and i am pleased to report that it has responded to nearly onequarter of a million calls. by calling this 800 number. :small business owners are directed to the correct source for a definitive answer .to small business questions on .government regulations. federal. state. -and private source business assistance. the answer desk focuses on federal government programs and xegulations. but also provides information about state. municipal. and private sector agencies. the answer .desk averages approximately 275 calls each business dayover 54.000 in fiscal year 1987. callers may obtain information ranging from how "to start a new business to export opportunities for their product. people from every -region of the country utilize the answer desk. over the last 5year perdod. constituents from my own state of connecticut alone placed nearly .6.000 calls. the answer desk is open monday through friday from 9a xam to p.m. est. the phone number is 18003685855 or 6537561 for the washington. dc. :area. the small business :answer desk is a .unique and valuable :esource for this nations small business and -it is to be commended on a job well done.*
 on the state of small business documents that small businesses have been the engine driving our ecoic growth. according to this report. employment in small business dominatedindustries grew at almost eight times the rate of growth in large business dominated industries during 1986. small businesses. the report es. are disproportionately represented in the fastest growing sectors of the ecoy. with many small firms experimenting with new products. techogies. and new methods of distribution. if these small inative businesses are to continue to grow. they must have access to debt and equity capital. traditional sources of financing. such as commercial banks and venture capital funds. have often been unavailable to thosefirms. in 1958. congress passed the small business investment act which established federally licensed. private small business investment companies [sbics] whose statutory mission was to provide longterm debt and equity financing. along with management counseling to small businesses. the small business administration regulates the activities of these companies. which can issue federally guaranteed debentures. the proceeds of which are reinvested in small businesses. the congress. in an effort to channel needed investment dollars to miity enterprises. also created the miity enterprise small business investment company cmesbic] in 1972. mesbics sell preferred stock to sba and issue debentures at reduced interest rates. mesbics are required to finance only businesses owned by socially or ecoically disadvantaged individuals. both of these programs are classic examples of a public/private partnership that works. before a company is eligible for the program. it must have $1 million in private paidin capital and must commit a significant amount of private capital in order to access funds at attractive rates through the sba. sbic/mesbics represent approximately 10 percent of the venture capital markets. and are unique in the size of their financings and the types of businesses they invest in as compared to private. independent venture firms. for example. sbics and- mesbics concentrate their financings on firms in their early stages of development. over 60 percent of their financings are directed to small firms who are 3 years old or less. traditional venture firms tend to seek out firms in their expansion phase. usually their fourth to sixth year in existence. furthermore. the average size financing of an sbic is $178.000. mesbics average financing in 1986 was $87.000. private. independent venture firms average investment was $1.6 million during that same period.
. i am pleased to join the chairman of the small business committee.  and myself. along with our respective committee staffs. with input from the 2 days of hearings held by the small business committee and the intensive wedtech investigation and hearings that were recently conducted by the governmental affairs oversight subcommittee which is chaired by senator
madam president. i rise to oppose the amendment. i believe senator harkin has well enumerated the reasons on behalf of handicapped persons of this nation. again. i would point out that there are exceptions made in the bill as it exists. both as to size and as to what is expected. i would like to address this amendment from the point of view of the small business owner. granted. in the change in leadership in the u.s. senate. i was. dethroned as chairman of the small business committee. as i was dethroned as chairman of the handicapped subcommittee. but i keep in touch with the constituencies as the ranking republican member.  one small business.  one small business. has written in support of this amendment. after all. who would want to write in support of this amendment. as far as the small business aspects are concerned. i have to point out that section 190 of the internal revenue code allows privately owned businesses to deduct up to $35.000 per year for expenses they incur in making their businesses accessible to elderly and handicapped persons. so to my good friend. senator harkin. i say never mind a few planks for a wheelchair ramp. there is $35.000 to make the premises available to the handicapped. madam president. from a business point of view and from a small businessmans point of view or a small businesswomans point of view. ody has asked for this amendment. indeed. therehas been provision made in our tax code to enable the smallest of our businesses to comply with the law. i realize it is rather bitter and cold outside. but it will  be long before they will start to sing the hymn. at least in my church. "welcome happy morning. age to age." they will sing. at eastertime. well. happy morning for the disabled of this nation came when section 504 was passed and they came from out of the cold into this family called america. they can participate in all aspects of our lives.  segregated and relegated to whatever can be done in some special hole or hovel which was assigned to them. for us who support the civil rights restoration act to go back to those cold days and away from that happy morning i do  think is the object of the exercise on this floor. i hope that we use this occasion to affirm the fact that the lame and the halt and the blind are as fully merbers of our society as anyone else. more. less. and by affirming that great moment when we made that possible in this nation i would hope that the senator from new hampshire would be alone in his vote for the amendment
. as a devoted proponent of small business in america. it is with pride that i rise today in recognition of the achievements of n. don edwards. the "small business person of the year" from connecticut. here is an entrepreneur who epitomizes all the virtues of small business. he began his specialty advertising business in 1962 in the basement of his familys home with money from a second mortgage ligainst that home and as much as he could borrow elsewhere. twentyfive years later. his firm employs 20 and generates total sales of just under $5 million. a tireless advocate of small business. mr. edwards was selected as one of three small business advocates to testify before the senate committee on small business in support of a permanent white house conference on small business. he was also a conference delegate to both the first and second white house conferences on small business and has been a recipient of numerous awards. including the "small business person of the -etr award" in 1984 presented by the southwestern area connecticut commerce and industry association and the "jaycees outstanding young man of the year award" for distinguished community service in 1967. mr. edwards is a valued member of my small busines advisory committee. as well as a member of the state of connecticut small business development center advisory board: and this is only the tip of the iceberg. the list of mr. edwards contributions to strengthen the role of small business in the state of connecticut and in the nation is far longer than i can cite here. let me just give you a clue as to his reputation in connecticut: he is referred to as "mr. motivation." while the n. donald edwards co. is  a well established enterprise in stamford. ct. providing specialty promotional items. motivational marketing services. incentives. awards and corporate recognition products. the path to his current success was  devoid of struggle. the son of an italian immigrant. mr. edwards childhood surroundings were humble. in a factoryowned apartment without running waterthe plumbing consisted of a handpump well in the backyardmr. edwards learned a valuable lesson from his father: if you give more than is expected. you will be successful. the n. donald edwards co. slogan today echoes those fine sentiments: "with more service than seems necessary." perhaps it was also mr. edwards father who inspired him to state recently. and i quote: the whole themetoday in americais entrepreneurship * i think the change has come about because people want to grow to their full potential. theres a burning desire to be the captain of their own ship. to control their own destiny and to be able to direct their business from stem to stern. from tears to cheers of creating and managing a business. it is those sentimentsmagnified by mr. edwards ceaseless devotion to the rightness of small business in americathat i salute today. i extend my warmest congratulations to mr. edwards on his selection as "connecticuts small business person of the year" and look forward to hearing about his future contributions and success.*
first. i want to associate myself with the eloquent remarks of the distinguished senator from arkansas. the distinguished chairman of the small business committee. senator bumpers. i think in the course of those remarks he has fairly well highlighted the past history of the matter. the concepts that initiated the 8(a) program and the necessity for continuing those concepts into the future minus the abuse. just to reiterate one point. the fact is that there are two key elements to achieving equality in our society. tile first is education. and the second is ecoic opportunity. when either or both of those are lacking. then there is either a lessened or possibility of achieving the individual share of tile american dream. it is to the latter that i address my remarks. and this bill addresses its attentionecoic opportunity. it does little good to afford the best education in the world to our miities if. indeed. at the end of that time there is opportunity to apply that education and realize monetary success. i realize the abuses. as does everyone on this floor. of the 8(a) program. i might add. in the large majority of instances. abuse is  perpetrated by the miity community. but rather by the majority population of this nation taking advantage of the miities.  the cry probably again comes the loudest from the majority: "do away with the program. see how it was abused." we are  doing away with the prograin. we will try to tighten it tip as a matter of law as best anything can be tightened up. but in the final analysis. human beings will always administer the law and there will always be opportunity for shinanigans and for chicanery. that is something that neither senator bumpers  i can legislate against. so. the product before the senate today continues the 8(a) program with various features which should make it an even better program. . throughout this legislation a number of new concepts are introduced. old provisions strengthened and ineffective ones eliminated. the certification process has been streamlined and set in a definite time frame of 90 days and rejected applicants are granted appeal rights. all participants are given a period of 8 years in the program from the time of the first 8(a) award which removes the uncertainty of the old fixed program participation term which drew constant complaints from participants who felt it was unjustly administered. and business development expense (bde] is eliminated from the program and replaced by a bid and proposal fund to hell) defray competitive bidding costs and a direct loan program which makes moneys available to participants at 2 percentage points below government loan interest rates. in summary. the committee has completed a very thorough and necessary overhaul of this program. and i am very plea ed with the outcome. i urge my colleagues to support passage of the bill. i hope that it will  only continue but it will receive the enthusiastic and honest leadership by the executive branch of government that is demanded by the situation.
. the leadership that senator bumpers has provided to the small business community and to the small business committee is something to be really envied by all of us. this is a very tough problem that he tackled. the easy thing would have been to look the other way and say. "well. this all occurred under republicans." there has never been a single piece of partisanship to come from this democratic chairman of the committee. he saw a problem which. if handled in a political way. could only hurt those who need our special help. the miity community of our nation. he never politicized it but came forth with an affirmative response to make a good program better. i thank both he and his staff for the efforts they have put in on this legislation. needless to say. i also have a great amount of pride in my own staff for their work.
. in my view the mission of the small business administration is to provide the many deserving citizens opportunities to participate in our ecoic mainstream and to assist small businesses to expand and create jobs. this bill ensures that sba will be able to continue carrying out that mission. and i urge my colleagues to support passage of the bill.
. i rise in support of h.r. 2512the first major revision of the copyright laws since 1909. since that time. major changes in techogy have rendered an overhauling of the statute more than overdue. i k the copyright subcommittee has spent long and arduous hours of deliberation in amending the copyright law to produce a bill that. in my view. will effectively and fairly accommodate conflicting interest. while encouraging authorship and still be fair to users of copyrighted works. i commend my colleagues. the gentleman from wisconsin.. chairman kastenmeier. and the other members of subcommittee  3. for the extremely competent work done on this legislation. the register of copyrights. mr. kaminstein. has said: federal law that i k of will have been more thoroughly considered or more carefully developed. and e will have a better documented legislative history. as a member of the authors league of america. i have followed with much interest the various provisions of this proposed law. i insert in the record at this point a list of provisions that particularly affect the leagues membership: (a) establishes copyright on new works for the authors life and 50 years. and extends existing copyrightsby 19 years.(b) recognizes the judicial doctrine of "fair use" as the solution to the "copying" problem. and preserves the authors right to prevent the copyright of his work beyond the limits of "fair use"-whether for educational or other purposes. . (c) preserves the dramatists right to public performance of his work. whether for profit or . (d) allows authors to terminate longterm assignments 35 years after they are executed. (e) requires payment for use of music in juke boxes. (f) requires the authors permisison for uses of musical and literary works in profit televison. other than programs which are part of regular classroom teaching activities. dramatic works can be used in any event without permission. (g) eliminates the more restrictive provisions of the "manufacturing clause." (h) increases the fee to composers for recordings of their music made under the compulsory license clause.
. a highly significant speech was delivered last week to the american bankers association convention by the senior senator from utah . who serves as the ranking republican on the committee on banking and currency. his speech is justly receiving wide national attention. the distinguished senator struck a vital e in calling upon americas bankers "to assume major. new leadership roles in helping to bring the needy. downtrodden slumdwellers back into the mainstream of american ecoic life." he rightly pointed out that solutions to the problems of poverty can be worked out on a mass basis. poverty is personal. and the solution must be found one person at a time. one job at a time. one step at a time. senator bennettwho speaks authoritatively through many years of close association with the banking worldexpressed his deep concern that two ways of life have existed side by side in this country for 30 years: the way of free enterprise. and the way of welfare. he said: we will never solve the problems of the poor of 1967 until we can move them out of the halfworld of government support and make them part of the real ecoic world we call the private enterprise system. to help to achieve the urgent goal of breaking down the attitudes which separate the poor from the rest of american society. senator beennett asked for new public relations programs to acquaint the nations poor with the proper uses of banks as savings and credit institutions. and to encourage negro college students in particular to enter the banking field. i feel that senator bennetts speech. entitled "riots. slums. and banking." should receive the wide circulation of the consent that it be printed in the record. together with a complementary article entitled "u.s. job training plan heartening." written by david lawrence. and published in yesterdays washington evening star.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senior senator from new hampshire be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide for an equitable sharing of the u.s. market by electronic articles of domestic and of foreign origin.
. i am convinced that the u.s. government must do more to stimulate the development of small business in the ghetto. the small business act presently requires that loans extended by the small business administration be of such sound value or so secured as reasonably to assure repayment. under ordinary circumstances. this standard is a sensible one and should be retained. unfortunately. in lowincome neighborhoods. application of the ordinary risk requirements frequently renders the operations of the small business administration irrelevant to the needs of individuals who are the most dependent upon government assistance. i believe that the small business administration should be authorized to finance higher risk ventures in lowincome areas as a means of preserving and encouraging the development of small business enterprise in locations where such development is highly desirable. the bill. i propose. would authorize the small business administrator to designate as highrisk areas those sections in which there is a relatively large number of families having incomes below the national average. and where there is a relatively high incidence of business failures or removals from the area by small business concerns. the sba would then be able to identify acceptable credit risks in ghetto areas. but without reference to the more rigid standards ordinarily applicable to sba loans. this is  an invitation to the small business administration to begin to finance bad risks. it is. however. a recognition that the operations of the sba must be made more relevant to lowincome areas. adoption of this amendment can for the first time make the activities of the small business administration consequential in those areas where development of small business can have its greatest effect upon community progress and stability.
. i also ask unanimous consent that the names of the senator from indiana . the junior senator from pennsylvania . the senior senator from pennsylvania . and the senior senator from massachusetts . be added as cosponsors of the bill to amend the small business act to apply an acceptable credit risk standard for loans to small business concerns in certain highrisk areas.
yes. yesterday. the senator from new jersey made the point that if the state of affairs in the investment company industry was as grim as described by senator mcintyre. the courts would find a remedy for shareholders through longstanding common law doctrines. i am advised that senator case was quite correct in his analysis. if the independent directors of the mutual funds are in fact dominated and controlled by the investment adviser. there is abundant precedent for granting relief to the shareholders from unreasonable management fees. state corporate law has long recognized that if socalled independent directors are dominated and controlled by the other party to a contract. then the burden of proving that the terms of the contract were fair and reasonable are on the defendants in an action brought by a dissenting shareholder. in such cases. the doctrine of "waste" of corporate assets has applicability whatsoever. these principles are brought out more fully in the joint legal opinion of sullivan & cromwell and gaston. s. motley & holt. at pages 324 to 327 of the printed record of hearings. dealing with standards applied by courts to advisory fees and the remedies of mutual fund shareholders. furthermore.  only are these remedies under the general corporate law of the states quite clear. but also. there are specific provisions in the investment company act of 1940 for a proceeding before the sec itself to determine whether directors are dominated or controlled. section 2(a) (9) of the act provides: a natural person shall be presumed  to be a controlled person ... any such presumptionmay be rebutted by evidence ... [but] shall continue until a determination to the contrary [is] made by the commis. slon ... the section goes on to provide that such a proceeding can be instituted by any interested party. which ncludes a shareholder. or by the commission on its own motion. the legal consequences of a determination by the commission under section 2(a) (9) that the unaffiliated directors of a mutual fund are in fact controlled by the investment adviser would invalidate the advisory contract where approval by the directors is the basis for the assertion that an advisory fee is reasonable. this is so because the approval of such a fee by directors which is required by section 15 of the act must include approval by a majority of the directors who are  affiliated persons of the investment adviser. and under section 2(a) (3) of the act a director who is controlled by the investment adviser is an affiliated person of the investment adviser. thus. shareholders. or the sec itself can. in an sec proceeding achieve all the relief necessary if the independent directors are subservient to or dominated by the investment adviser. the fact that the sec has as the law allows it to. on its own motioncommenced such proceedings. proves that the issue of domination and. control is a false one and has been injected into the debate on this bill as a red herring to mask the true nature of the management fee sectionwhich is hing more than thinly disgulsed rate regulation. if it is claimedand i have heard such claimthat the route under section 2(a) (9) which i have just outlined is inadequate where are the cases brought under such section in which the sec has failed to obtain necessary relief. such cases might provide the basis for further legislation. there are such cases. because the sec has never brought any. since i do  believe that the sec has failed in its job for the last 28 years. there is only one other explanationnamely. that it must be presumed that the sec had evidence that mutual fund directors are dominated or controlled. this in itself is a powerful reason why the traditional concepts of corporate democracy should  be abandoned in favor of coercive control of corporate affairs by governmentin business enterprises which are  moolies or public utilities. i believe one other point might be made. the doctrine of waste which so concerns the sec is  something written into state or federal statutes. it is judgemade law and is merely one of many judicially created doctrines which can apply to a particular case. if the situation in the industry is as outrageous as a few have claimed why has  a single judge in the 50 or so management fee cases fashioned an appropriate remedy. this background is also necessary to approach the questions which senator javits propounded yesterday. the amendment which senator bennett has offered provides that if the fees are approved by a unanimous vote of all of the independent directors and also by twothirds of the outstanding voting shares of the investment company. then under * the amendment such fees may  be challenged as unreasonable for purposes of section 8(d) of the bill. under section * 10 of the investment company act. at least 40 percent of the investment companys directors must be independent of the investment adviser and a majority must be independent of the principal underwriter. this amendment must be viewed against the present law both on the state level and the additional rights which are already contained in the investment company act of 1940. shareholders will continue to retain their rights under state law and those which i have described as already included in the investment company act. in the context of present law the amendment merely provides a reasonable limitation on section 8(d) of the bill which provides an additional extraordinary remedy to those which already exist. such a limitation is necessary because the section grants the unprecedented right to the sec or a judge to substitute their business judgment for that of shareholders and directors even when twothirds of the shareholders and 100 percent of the independent directors have approved the contract. even with the amendment of the senator from utah the section would make inroads on established concepts of corporate democracy. however. it would keep the hands of the government and a court off any situation where state law is complied with and independent directors and twothirds of the shareholders. acting on the basis of proxy material which is already subject to sec jurisdiction. have decided that a management fee is reasonable. my answer. therefore. to the first question of the senator from new york is in the negative. but it is important to realize that it is both unnecessary and unwise to open a contract to sec and judicial revision where directors have acted honestly and independently and where twothirds of the shareholders. acting on honest information. have approved a management fee contract. as i have pointed out. in cases where directors are dominated or controlled or where false or misleading information has been the basis of shareholder approval the contract is  insulated from judicial review and the court may find fees that are unreasonable. my answer to the second question of the senator from new york follows from my answer to the first and is also in the negative. a suit allowable under the amendment would  be confined to a determination of whether there was approval by a required number of directors or shareholders. either the sec or a shareholder would have the right to prove that a director was controlled or that the vote of shareholders was improperly procured. with the result that the amendment did  apply. a dissenting shareholder can. therefore. go behind the vote of directors and his fellow shareholders. my answer to the third question of the senator from new york is in the affirmative. the shareholder and the sec has ample remedy against misfeasance or malfeasance by directors. the amendment is merely a limitation on an extraordinary remedy directing the sec and the courts to act as a kind of "superdirector." and giving them authority to overrule an honest decision on which reasonable men might differ. in this connection. i must point out that under section 36 of the investment company act of 1940. the sec may bring action in federal court to remove a director from office for "gross misconduct or gross abuse of trust." i might also correct a statement made yesterday. in reply to comments by the senator from new jersey that section 36 dealing with gross abuse of trust or gross misconduct limits shareholders actions against directors. the first seven words of section 36 of the investment company act read as follows: the commission is authorized to bring action.... this section is directed to actions by the sec.  shareholders. and senator case was correct in hio statement that section 36 does  limit shareholder rights otherwise existing under law. in any event. section 20 of the bill we are considering modifies the gross abuse standard of section 36. so that an action may be brought by the sec in cases of "breach of fiduciary duty involving personal misconduct." this modification was unanimously agreed to by the committee and would provide a further check. to the extent that any may be needed. on irresponsible actions by directors and it would certainly provide aher statutory remedy against directorial malfeasance or misfeasance.
as a matter of fact. the senator from massachusetts did  get a copy of the letter. however. i would like to say. having read it. that i k of this letter. and i see hing inconsistent with the protection of the investor which was stated by the distinguished republican presidential candidate in his letter addressed to certain people in the industry. i think further that it should be pointed out that there was disagreement within the committee itself on the basic philosophy of this matter and i think the distinguished republican candidate for president. and the next president of the united states. was merely saying in his letter that he was in opposition to the philosophy of the present administration in  letting the investor make up his own mind as to what he wanted to do rather than having the government do it for him. i think that was the thrust of the letter from  will remember. there was very little evidence in the testimony before the committee to indicate there had been any great abuses in the industry at all.
i am sure that mr. nixon was merely voicing opposition. i think he was voicing opposition to the administration in dealing with securities. he feels the government should  get into the field of securities to a greater degree than it already has done so. this is the basic feeling of the industry itself. it was very well testified to before our committee in hearings.
. i rise today because of my concern over a problem that is significant and important to us all. it is so significant that the forces of both the national judiciary and congress have been brought to bear on its resolution. and it is important because it involves the primary source of information for responsible americans. i speak of the socalled failing newspaper problem. an issue of tremendous implications for the freedom and vigor of the american press. few will deny the independent spirit that has characterized the continuing growth of our great nation and the competitive quality that has stimulated development of this nations ecoic complex. competition and relative independence have  only been responsible for techogical advances but have provided us additionally with the assurance that the available alternatives have been explored. any administrative policy. judicial doctrine. or legislative enactment that operates as a restraint on these fundamental forces of legitimate endeavors deserves the closest scrutiny by us all. this is especially true when we are concerned with the integrity of the information process upon which the vast majority of americans formulate their opinions. it would be helpful to take a brief look at the history of events that culminated in the supreme courts recent decision in citizen publishing co. et al. against united states. since 1933. 44 newspapers located in some 22 cities have entered into joint newspaperoperating arrangements. ostensibly on the basis of ecoic considerations. while the agreements vary from city to city. each basically strives to combine all of the business and mechanical functions under some form of joint control while maintaining editorial independence. in theory it permits a community to benefit from competing news and editorial viewpoints even though it can ecoically support more than one newspaper. in 1965. the justice department challenged the validity of one of these arrangements between the citizen publishing co. and the arden publishing co. in tucson. on march 10. of this year. the supreme court affirned the decision of the -district court for the district of arizona which will require a divestiture of interests between the two publishing companies. legislation has  been introduced which would provide an exemption to the antitrust acts for "failing newspapers." as defined very broadly in the bill. the contentions of the government and the decisions of the respective courts are based on legislative enactments whose overriding purposes are  in question. among other things. the antitrust acts strive to keep alive the sparks of competitive endeavor. at this point. it is worth ing the declaration of policy set out in the proposed newspaper preservation act introduced by our esteemed colleague. senator iye. that bill states: in the public interest of maintaining the historical independence of the newspaper press in all parts of the united states. it is hereby declared to be the public policy of the united states to preserve the publication of newspapers in any city. community. or metropolitan area where a joint operating arrangement has been or may de entered into because of ecoic distress. when you couple the underlying principles of the antitrust acts with the present judicial doctrine which permits the "failing company defense" in antitrust actions and compare it with this stated declaration it would seem that the proposed legislation and the present judicial policy are  working at crosspurposes. it follows. i believe. that legislation in this area should seek to reconcile differences in the application of the law while adding clarity and certainty to the standards guiding the actions of those newspapers which anticipate entering into some form of joint operating arrangements. with these thoughts in mind. i would like to express my general support for the legislation that has been suggested by my able colleagues. however. i would like to submit two amendments for consideration by the appropriate committee. the first amendment is designed to clarify the definition of a "failing newspaper." the present definition in the bill does . in my view. lend itself to the establishment of a clear standard. rather than defining such a publication as one which "regardless of its ownership or affiliations. appears unlikely to remain or become a financially sound publication." i suggest that a failing newspaper be defined as a "newspaper publication which can be continued in operation as a separate and independent business enterprise for the following reasons: first. in its newspaper publication operations it has sustained substantial financial loss for an extended period of time. second. its financial resources are substantially depleted. third. its prospect of financial rehabilitation by the proprietors or shareholders thereof is so remote that it is confronted with grave probability of business failure. fourth. its failure as a business enterprise will result in substantial financial loss to its proprietors or shareholders and substantial injury to the community in which such newspaper publication is published. and. sixth. active efforts made in good faith by the managers thereof to obtain a purchaser of such newspaper publication who is willing and able to continue it in operation as a separate and independent newspaper publication have been unsuccessful." this definition is similar to the one found in the case of international shoe company. inc. v. f.t.c. (280 u.s. 291). a basic difference exists between the international shoe case definition as it was applied by the court in the recent citizens publishing co. case and the one that i have proposed. in my view. the majority opinion placed undue emphasis on the requirement concerning other prospective purchasers when it said: the failing company doctrine plainly can be applied in a merger or any other case unless it is established that the company that acquires it or brings it under dominion is the only available purchaser. this places a very heavy burden on a company. and does so with regard to a standard that is by means an adequate measure of ecoic distress. the definition that i have suggested provides the assurance of good faith while retaining certain flexibility in an area that may be largely conjecture. one point is of special importance in this connection. the courts decision in the citizen case is  an absolute prohibition of joint newspaper operating arrangements. it may be that some or most of the other arrangements. namely. those in 21 cities across the country. will stand under the courts doctrine. it is by means clear that present application of the "failing company" doctrine would rule out all such schemes. indeed. while i think the courts extension of the international shoe criteria is unduly onerous. and while i believe further legislation is appropriate to clarify the antitrust standards in this field. it is important to realize that the court already has considerable latitude to take account cxv---669part 8 of the special circumstances bearing on each joint arrangement. we need to be careful  to open undue loopholes in antitrust law. my amendments are designed to meet these concerns. the second amendment is designed simply to place a time limit on when prior judgments in this limited area may be examined. as the measure stands . it is technically possible for judgments to be opened up that were handed down prior to 1900. i believe we should explicitly limit this possibility to the period after 1933. when the oldest of the current joint operating arrangements came into being. it is my hope that the committee and the senate will favorably consider these amendments to the newspaper preservation act and that the bill will pass. it represents a serious effort to provide relief in an area where sufficient justification exists for legislative action. our country has always encouraged diverse thought and opinion. its legitimate expression is paramount to our continued growth and development. this amended measure will help preserve a vigorous press. one of the essential elements in the life of our nation.
. i rise today to offer my support of senate bill 2224. the investment company amendments act of 1969. this bill amends certain sections of the investment company act of 1940 which pertain to investment company management fees. mutual funds sales commissions. and contractual plan sales commissions. the bill also amends certain provisions of the federal securities laws to permit banks and savings and loan associations to operate collective funds in competition with mutual funds. finally. the bill includes a number of technical amendments to the investment company act of 1940 and the investment advisers act of 1940 which would facilitate and improve the administration of these acts. s. 2224 represents a significant improvement over the provisions contained in s. 3724 which was passed by the senate last year and which i did  support. there are. h6wever. a number of issues which must still be addressed in future legislation after adequate studies have been completed. the most controversial provision contained in last years bill dealt with the reasonableness of investment company management fees. mutual funds are mally organized. promoted. and managed by external organizations which are referred to as "investment advisers." these organizations are usually large investment companies which manage the funds portfolio in exchange for management or advisory fees. these fees are calculated as a percentage of the funds net assets and fluctuate with the value of the funds investment portfolio. since fund shares are often purchased by investors in reliance upon the investment advisers management competence. a mutual fund is  in a position to sever its relationship with the adviser and. therefore. often does  deal with the adviser on an armslength basis. thus. this relationship has given rise to problems. namely. the ecoies of scale which have been realized in the industry as a whole as a result of its pheenal growth have  been shared with investors. this observation is made  to chastise an industry which has contributed significantly to the welfare of the investing public. but to point out that even the most praiseworthy industries are subject to shortcomings which require legislative solutions. last years bills. 3724contained a provision stating that management fees should be "reasonable." jurisdiction was vested in the courts to determine what constituted a reasonable fee. i and several of my colleagues on the banking and currency committee objected to this provision on the ground that courts would be setting management fees. s. 2224 represents a substantial change in emphasis from the provisions contained in last years bill. as a matter of federal law. the investment adviser will be subjected to a fiduciary duty to mutual fund share holders with respect to management fee compensation. similar fiduciary duties will be owed by certain other persons with respect to their compensation from the fund. the doctrine of "corporate waste" will longer prevent shareholder suits where management fee contracts have been ratified by shareholder votes. thus. the established corporate law concept of fiduciary duty will be applied to management compensation contracts and suits grounded on a breach of this fiduciary duty can be brought by mutual fund shareholders or the sec. this. in my judgment represents a significant improvement over last years bill in that unconscionable management fee contracts can be challenged. however. the judiciary does  assume the role of a "rate fixer." while the ultimate responsibility for determining whether the investment advisers fiduciary duty has been breached rests with the courts. approval of management fee contracts by the directors and the shareholders will be given adequate consideration. it should be emphasized that the committee in its report to the senate on s. 2224 does  make any finding that the present level of management fees is too high. s. 2224 does. however. provide a mechanism by which the fairness of management compensation contracts can be tested where shareholder recourse has hitherto been iceably absent. adequate compensation and incentives must be provided to companies and individuals which advise the fund on its investments and market fund shares. however. individual investors must share equitably in the ecoies of scale available as a result of tremendous growth in this industry. recognizing the need to balance adequate compensation for the industry with adequate investor returnsconsistent with market fluctuations--i am pleased to see that a compromise has been reached with respect to the establishment of a commission rate structure for mutual fund sales loads. under this compromise. the industry would provide selfregulation with oversight by the sec. the sec would be empowered to alter or supplement industry rules. this solution is preferable to that involved with eliminating the resale price maintenance provisions contained in section 22(d) of the investment company act of 1940. expert testimony delivered before the banking and currency committee indicated that elimination of section 22(d) could have adverse consequences on the industry which are  foreseeable at this time. the sec has been requested to review the consequences of such a proposal on both the investing public and mutual funds sales organizations. i believe that this study is the sine qua  of further action in this area. with respect to frontend loads paid by investors who participate in contractual plans. many of the problems which existed in s. 3724 have been resolved. the original sec recommendation that frontend loads be prohibited was rejected by the committee. on the other hand. the committee felt that the frontend loador prepayment of sales charges on contractual plans--detrimentally affected investors who withdrew from the plans at an early date unless the stock market had risen rapidly. accordingly. i am pleased to e that a compromise has been reached whereby either the frontend load is reduced considerably or investors are able to receive refunds if withdrawal takes place at an early date. more specifically. salesmen would be given the option of employing a "spread load" whereby the frontend load would be extended over a 4year period with more than 20 percent of any one years payments deducted for sales loads. the total deduction allowable during the first 4 years would be limited to 64 percent. this contrasts greatly with present provisions which allow for a 50percent frontend load that can be deducted in the first year of the plan. thus. the investor would have more money actually invested in underlying securities during the first years of the plan and the possibility of loss in the event that he redeemed during this period would be substantially decreased. under the second alternative the 50percent frontend load presently authorized could be retained provided that if the investor elected for any reason to redeem his underlying shares for cash during the first 3 years. he would be entitled to receive a refund of the amount by which all sales charges paid exceed 15 percent of the total payments made under the plan. thus. the investor would also have more money actually invested under this alternative than under present provisions and his possibility of loss in this first few years would be decreased substantially. although i believe the frontend load provisions contained in s. 2224 are an improvement over the provisions contained in last years bill. i have also been impressed with the fact that several states prohibit frontend loads entirelyfor example. californiaand nevertheless have a thriving mutual fund industry. thus. there appears to be reason for considering whether additional improvements might be made in the frontend load provisions without seriously jeopardizing the mutual fund industry sales forces. i withhold amendments in this area until additional study can be given to the experiences found in "oad" states with respect to the composition of industry sales forces and the nature of the sales activity involved. s. 2224 also contains provisions dealing with sales charges for "face amount certificates." these instruments are debt securities that provide for periodic payments over a number of years. the investor is paid a fixed sum of money upon the maturity of the certificate and lesser sums if the certificate is surrendered prior to maturity. these lesser sums reflect the deduction from investors payments of frontend load sales charges. s. 2224 provides a 20percent frontend load limitation on these instruments. my very able colleague. senator proxmire. has expressed reservations as to whether the fact amount certificate provisions in this bill are adequate. i support the present provisions pending further study as to the consequences of eliminating the frontend load provisions entirely. the bill which is  under consideration contains additional provisions which would permit banks to engage in equity investments by offering their investment services to individuals through the use of collective investment funds. i am cognizant of the fact that the banking provisions of this bill conflict with certain provisions contained in the banking act of 1933commonly kn as the glasssteagall actwhich precludes banks from entering the securities business. i believe that adequate evidence exists to justify the entry of banks and savings and loan associations into the mutual fund field and the increased activity of insurance companies. the american investor will be the benefactor of such activities since he will be provided with a wider choice among different equity investment fedia. while i believe that there is some justification for the argument that any expansion of the banking industry into this new field of endeavor should be considered as part of the larger "onebank holding company" issue. i do feel that the subject has received adequate consideration before the banking and currency committee and it has chosen to consider the issue in this.context. i believe that decision is justified. in conclusion. i would like to commend s. 2224 to my colleagues in the senate. i believe it represents a significant contribution to the law in this field. while there are issues which remain unresolved. we must  postpone the enactment of legislation which will have a significant bearing on the growth of this important industry. i urge that s. 2224 be adopted.
. there is a definite need for our government to be able to move swiftly and efficiently to make assistance available to americans facing uninsured losses as a result of natural disasters. but i submit that there is greater or more prevailing disaster facing this nation today than the disaster which keeps 20 million americans in a state of ecoic servitude to the larger community. which deprives them. through lack of education and opportunity. of the right to develop their own businesses to hire people of their own choosing. and to make their dollars truly work for them. ecoic development in the central cities. including especially a priority for the small business administration. for this administration. and for the nation. it is for this reason that i introduce. on behalf of myself and senators case. cooper. hatfield. hartke. and javits. a bill to amend the small business act to apply an" acceptable credit risk standard for loans to small business concerns in certain highrisk areas. the small business act presently requires that loans extended by the small business administration be of such sound value or so secured as reasonably to assure repayment. i believe that in addition the small business administration should be authorized to finance higher risk ventures in lowincome areas as a means of preserving and encouraging the development of smallbusiness enterprise in locations where such development is highly desirable. the bill i propose would authorize the small business administrator to designate as "highrisk areas" those sections in which there is a relatively large number of families having incomes below the national average. and where there is a relatively high incidence of business failures or removals from the area by smallbusiness concerns. the small business administration would then be able to identify acceptable credit risks in ghetto areas. but without reference to the more rigid standards ordinarily applicable to sba loans. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of this measure be printed at this point in the record.
well. to a degree. i would agree with the senator from wisconsin. i certainly admit that regulation q has been effective and has been helpful in keeping the flow of money from going out of federally controlled banks to the mutual savings banks. but the mutual savings banks have derived some benefit as a result of regulation q. as the senator said. the fact remains that we do have an unusual dual banking system in the commonwealth of massachusetts. of which i think the senator is well aware. under this compromise provision. we are asking the massachusetts general court--which is the legislative body of the state of massachusettsto enact legislation which will give the state banking commissioner or the banking agency authority to establish rate ceilings on thrift institutions which are  federally controlled.
. in addition. if the state does  act by july 1970 the federal controls will apply to the thrift institutions in the commonwealth of massachusetts as well. but at least it is giving the state the opportunity to act in this field. if they do  act. then the federal government will step in. this is a condition and a provision under which they can live. as the senator has very well said. and i am grateful for his comments. we have had a kty problem. a rather unusual problem. and we have solved it in the best interests of the dual banking institutions and in preserving state authority.
i think it is very important to point out that at the time the judge joined this corporation and became an incorporator .nd a member of the corporation. he was the u.s. attorney for that district of florida. he was sworn to uphold and defend the law and to enforce the law. here. then. is a man who was under oath to enforce the law of the land joining in a device to circumvent the very law which he had sworn to uphold. defend. and enforce. to me. this is even more damaging than a private citizen or a politician or someone of that nature doing the same thing. because as a district attorney he had an added responsibility.
. i rise today to cosponsor a bill which my distinguished colleague from wisconsin. senator proxmire. has introduced concerning the use of foreign bank accounts to circumvent domestic laws. more specifically. these accounts have been used to avoid the payment of income taxes on capital gains resulting from securities transactions. to engage in illegal manipulation of the securities markets. to violate insider trading regulations involving the purchase and sale of securities. and to circumvent established margin requirements. this legislation is vitally needed if we are to insure that domestic laws are  circumvented. the evidentiary problems which presently exist with respect to prosecuting offenders has prevented lawenforcement officials from curtailing illegal activities. the proxmire bill requires full disclosure of the principals in any securities transaction executed through a brokerdealer by a foreign bank or broker on behalf of u.s. citizens. in addition. the bill requires financial institutions to maintain records of checks and other financial transactions where such records may have a high degree of usefulness in criminal. tax. or regulatory investigations. it should be ed. however. that the secretary of the treasury is vested with authority to prescribe the types of records which shall be required and therefore excessive recordkeeping requirements will be avoided. the bill further requires financial institutions or the individuals involved to report unusual or sizable deposits or withdrawals of u.s. currency and to report transactions with foreign financial agencies. i am confident that legislation similar to that introduced today will be enacted this session of the congress. inasmuch as the house of representatives has already passed a similar billexcept with respect to disclosure requirementssenate action on this legislation is vital.
ial commission which would survey the entire bank holding company problem along with means of liberalizing restrictions on banking. the bill which i introduce todaya copy of which i request to be printed in the record at the conclusion of my statementaddresses bank holding company regulation from a new perspective. the bill is based upon the following premises with which. i believe. the distinguished sponsors of existing proposals and the administration would agree. these premises are: first. bank holding company legislation should  have an anticompetitive effect. it should  protect banking businesses from fair bank competition. i underline the word "fair." furthermore. such legislation should  protect banks from fair competition from those  presently engaged in banking. i believe that an unintended byproduct of some of the bills previously filed will be to establish unnecessary and undesirable protection for both banks and banking businesses. second. commercial banking power should  be used for the unfair advantage of a business affiliate of a bank. because of their control of commercial credit. banks possess tremendous power which could be used unfairly for the benefit of their affiliates and to the detriment of competitors of their affiliates. the commercial lending power of banks is unique and capable of unfair use without the need for overt coercion. i do  believe existing bills go far egh in protecting competitors of a banks affiliate from the advantages which the affiliate inherently enjoys. for example bank lending power. third. any bank holding company or affiliate which abuses its commercial lending power should be subjected to civil sanctions which can be enforced by injunction or treble damage actions. fourth. abuses of commercial lending power should be prohibited in all cases. including those where the bank and business affiliate are commonly controlled by an individual. an estate. a trust. partnership. or corporation. presently proposed legislation does  attempt to deal with abuses that can be committed by banks and businesses commonly controlled by individuals. the bill which i introduce today is based upon the objective of fostering fair competition and precluding unfair competition by banks and bank holding companies. thus. section 5 of the act would add a new section to title 12 of the united states code which would specifically preclude a bank from conditioning its commercial lending power on the fact that a consumer: first. shall obtain some other credit. property. or service from a bank holding company of such bank or any subsidiary of such bank holding company. second. shall provide some other credit. property. or services to the bank holding company of such bank or any subsidiary of such bank holding company. or third. shall  obtain some other credit. property. or services from a competitor of such bank. bank holding company of such bank or any subsidiary of such bank holding company. this provision would apply to all banks and  just banks which are controlled by bank holding companies since there is justification for treating either type of bank differently. in essence. this section specifically precludes tiein transactions by a bank and its affiliates. in particular. a bank is prohibited from conditioning a loan to a third party on the third partys agreement to do business with an affiliate of the bank or  to do business with a competitor. at the same time. the section would  interfere with legitimate conditions in commercial lending transactions such as compensating deposit balances or negative restrictions on additional borrowings. other provisions of section 5 would provide civil and injunctive remedies against any party which violated the provisions of section 5. section 4(e) (1) (a) of the proposed act would permit a bank holding company to engage in any activity which the board of govers of the federal reserve system determines is "functionally related" to banking. in considering whether an activity is "functionally related." the board would be directed to consider whether the activity is one which is incidental to a banking transaction or is one providing assistance of a type which a customer mally looks to a bank or other financial institution to obtain. the section further provides that even if the activity is "functionally related". the board may deny permission to engage in such activity if the activity might have significant anticompetitive effects. the adoption of a flexible test in this regard should avoid the problem of arbitrary circumscription of banking activities. section 4(e) (1) (b) of the bill permits a bank holding company or subsidiary to engage in activities  functionally related to banking. subject to a very material condition. the activity would be prohibited if either the bank holding company or any banking subsidiary extends banking services to any customer or supplier of such bank holding company or subsidiary engaged in the activity. the purpose of this provision is to enable bank holding companies to compete in a wide variety of businesses. provided potential for abuse exists. potential is considered to exist where a bank is unable to use its commercial banking power directly or indirectly in favor of its banking affiliates. similarly. this provision will permit banking entities to organize banks and provide additional competition in that industry. again subject to the proviso that the banking affiliates receive benefit from the commercial lending power of the banking affiliate. in recent months. a wide variety of businesses have complained of the dangers which would exist if the banks were permitted to compete with them. their complaints have been founded upon the premise that third parties will be directly or indirectly influenced to do business with the affiliate of the bank in hopes of receiving commercial loans from the bank itself. those who have urged strict legislation prohibiting bank holding companies from engaging in banking activities have protested that this influence will be felt by third parties even though specific representations are made by the bank or its business affiliate. the bill which i offer today would eliminate this possibility by prohibiting banks from extending credit or other banking services to a customer or supplier of the business affiliate of the bank. this provision will assure that the commercial lending power of banks will  be used to the unfair advantage of their business affiliates. in approaching this problem. i realized that the administrative burden on banks in complying with this provision could be very severe. accordingly. the bill authorizes the federal reserve board to permit by regulation or order the rendering of such banking services in such amounts or under such conditions as it considers will  frustrate the purposes of the section. for example. i would envision the board permitting banks to extend credit to customers or suppliers of banking affiliates in limited amounts where the amount involved is such that it is unlikely to be a factor in the customers or suppliers doing business with the banking affiliate. certain other transactions such as the renting of safe deposit boxes and transfer agent services would also be permitted without frustrating the purposes of this provision. in this manner. the bank would  have to consider the applicability of these provisions to every banking service which it renders. this approach permits bank holding companies to retain investments in banking affiliates provided that they meet specified conditions. thus. there is may 11. 1970 coil need for a grandfather clause in the bill and bank holding companies may retain their investments in all banking businesses. provided that they eliminate the circumstances which could lead to an abuse of their banking power. if. on the other hand. the bank holding company is unable or unwilling to abide by these conditions it would be subject to injunctive proceedings and/or treble damage actions and. therefore. as a practical matter. would be forced to divest itself of either its banking subsidiary or the banking activity. aher fundamental change in the bill being offered is that it will apply to banks which are controlled by individuals. trusts. estates. and partnershipsas well as corporations. an individual would find it more difficult than would a corporation to direct the unfair use of a controlled banks lending power for the benefit of a controlled business. brothersister corporations are common especially in many smaller communities. and it would seem that abuses of commercial banking power should be prohibited in these communities as well as in metropolitan areas and national markets. thus. section 2(b) of the act would be amended to include within the definition of a company. "a person. estate. trust. or partnership." it should be ed that this provision would require that the federal reserve board approve the organization of every new bank. whether or  the bank is a member of the federal reserve system or by the federal deposit insurance corporation. a final major provision is contained in section 6 which would establish a "national commission on banking" which is charged with the responsibility of determining whether existing laws promote vigorous competition in the banking industry. this commissionwhich has also been recommended by the administration and by senator proxmirerepresents an excellent opportunity to undertake a critical review of our bank regulatory system. section 6 is designed to give congressional support to the administrations proposal. to assure that it is backed by subpena power and adequately financed. at the same time. it is my view that the legislation which i propose need  be delayed pending a broad study of financial institutions. in conclusion. i believe it is necessary to encourage the competitive forces in our ecoy. we must devise rules which will prevent abuses and yet permit legitimate competition. the onebank holding company issue is extremely complex and the solution which i propose recognizes this fact by avoiding arbitrary limits on the activities of bank holding companies. on the other hand. the bill ackledges that such unbridled authority must be subject to carefully drawn guidelines which will prevent anticompetitive consequences. the bill also recognizes that an extensive review of banking regulation is long overdue. i offer this proposal with the hope that it will generate worthwhile discussion and may produce legislation which is more precisely directed at achieving a healthy and competitive banking industry as this nation moves into the 1970s.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from wisconsin . section 103(7)-the socalled conglomerate amendmenthas been opposed by the federal reserve board and the justice department and would exempt approximately 80 percent of all onebank holding companies from the restrictions against engaging in banking activities and could benefit an untold number of companies prior to the effective date of the act. the conglomerate amendment exempts onebank holding companies if the net worth of the banks subsidiary is less than $3 million. there are presently approximately 870 onebank holding companies who could qualify under this exemption. however. an additional 11.000 commercial banks with deposits under $30 millio net worths of less than $3 millioncould qualify if they transformed themselves into onebank holding companies prior to the passage of this act. in addition. the conglomerate amendment also exempts onebank holding companies if the net worth of the bank is less than 5 percent of the holding companys total net worth and less than $50 million. thus. there would be added incentives on the part of existing bank holding companies to increase acquisitions and incentives on the part of banking businesses to engage in takeover bidding prior to the enactment of this bill. your banking and currency committee endorsed the conglomerate amendment on the grounds that. in the case of small onebank holding companies. the possibility of abuse was removed and. in the case of large conglomerates. growth should be permitted where abusive conduct is absent. my very able colleague from wisconsin. senator proxmire. has asserted that if small onebank holding companies would incur hardships as a result of divestiture. such concerns are negated by the presence of a grandfather clause in the bill. i concur with this position. in the case of large conglomerates. the position taken in the original administration bills. 1664whereby onebank holding companies would be permitted to retain their banking activities acquired prior to a grandfather date provided they did  engage in any new activity appears to be a far more reasonable approach. thus. the grandfather provision in the present bill serves the same function as the conglomerate amendment without creating large loopholes. i think this is the important service which the proxmire amendment would render in thus amending the bill. if a large conglomerate determines that the flexibility provided by the grandfather clause is insufficient. the instant bill would permit the conglomerate to continue to diversify provided it divested its bank within 10 years. the committee has been more than generous in its treatment of this issue and therefore section 103(7) constitutes unnecessary surplusage at best. i therefore urge my colleagues in the senate to support the amendment which the senator from wisconsin has offered.
. the grandfather date of march 25. 1969. contained in the instant bill departs from the administration recommendation and enables several large conglomerates which were on ice of pending bank holding company legislation to retain acquisitions in areas which are clearly forbidden to competitors. the grandfather date of june 30. 1968. which was chosen by the administration permits several hundred traditional. small town onebank holding companies to retain their banking assets without approving the more recent acquisitions made by large banks and conglomerates during the latter part of 1968 and early 1969. there is some justification for permitting small holding companies which relied in good faith on regulatory policies of the past to retain their acquisitions. however. there is justification for permitting large conglomerates to reap rewards for having rushed to complete acquisitions prior to the passage of this law. the 10year divestiture provision contained in the bill is more than adequate to prevent undue hardships. i. therefore. urge my colleagues in the senate to support senator proxmires amendment on this subject.
 section 104the antitying provisionhas been subject to a unique legislative history. a similar provision was contained in the original administration bills. 1664which differed from the instant section in only two respects. first. the regulatory approach did  provide an escape clause whereby exemptions could be granted if anticompetitive practices were absent. second. the provision related only to tying involving banks which were part of holding company arrangements. the administration antitying provision was warmly endorsed by both the treasury and justice departments at its inception. assistant attorney general richard w. mclarenthe chief antitrust enforcement officer of the governmentconcurred with the committees views that there were fundamental differences between tieins involving banks which are. and those which are . affiliates of bank holding companies. in addition. at s permission. i ask that a copy of this letter be included in the record at this point in my statement.
in summation. the very agencies which supported a similar provision in the original administration bill and which endorsed secton 104 have  decidedunder heavy bank lobbyingthat the provision should be narrowed in scope. they propose. in essence. that tieins involving "a loan. discount. deposit. or trust service" be excluded from the coverage of this act. thus. it would be possible for a bank to tie trust services such as pension trusts or escrow services to commercial loans or mortgage loans. in addition. banks could engage in the tying of highgrade. high interest retail paper to mortgage or commercial loans. furthermore. it would be possible to grant a loan on the condition that the bank customer terminate other loan arrangements and consolidate his loan position with the bank in question. these are merely examples of the most flagrant abuses which could be sanctioned under the provisions recommended by the treasury and justice departments. i am certain that these results were  intended by either department. the agencies did intend. however. to preserve traditional banking practices which do  involve anticompetitive practices. i concur with this laudable end and believe that the federal reserve board. in consultation with banking agencies and other interested parties. will produce reasonable regulations in this area. i certainly understand the boards positionit is better to include exemptions in the statute [regarding traditional banking arrangements] than to leave them to administrative discretion. the board will be required to exercise considerable discretion in an exacting and responsible manner. however. its record with respect to the implementation of other pieces of legislation warrants the trust and confidence which your committee has placed in this body. i believe. however. that certain technical amendments may enhance the implementation of this provision and. therefore. contemplate offering these amendments at an appropriate time. finally. i would like to respond to an argument which some have advanced to the effect that section 104 somehow undermines the dual banking system. this argument is presumably based upon the fact that section 104 subjects all banks to federal regulatory control. as an advocate of the dual banking system. i have supported the concept that state banks should  be subjected to federal regulation except in limited circumstances. such a situation arises where the concentration of business power is involved and therefore previous bank holding regulations embrace banks which were neither members of the federal reserve or holders of federal deposit insurance. accordingly. section 104 does  in any way derogate from the general proposition that traditional banking responsibilities for state banks rest primarily with state rather than federal agencies. thus. section 104 does  pose a threat to the dual banking system. i am happy to see that the national association of supervisors of state banks has recognized this fact and has objections to the enactment of this provision. in conclusion. i believe that your committee has dealt in a responsible fashion with the very difficult and politically sensitive issue of bank holding company regulation. we must. however. insure that potential abuses of banking powers are adequately checked by the tying provision contained in this legislation. in that respect. the committee acted responsibly by enacting this provision and i hope the senate will respond similarly by retaining this provision virtually intact. to remove or substantively alter this provision. as proposed by the senator from utah. would confirm the belief of many that this legislation in way checks abusive practices in the banking community and merely constitutes special interest legislation. i think this is a position we wish to avoid. i think this is a position which the senate banking and currency committee did avoid in its committee print. and i urge that the amendment be defeated.
was it the intent of the committee. or was it the intent of this amendment that if one seeks a loan at a bank the borrower would have to transfer his deposits from other banks to the bank from which he hoped to acquire the loan.
we are trying to eliminate the possibility of abuses. either expressed or implied. if someone goes to a bank and wants to make a loan. if that person is subject to having a bank say to him. "all right. i will make that loan. i will make it only if you draw money from your existing banks and bring it into this bank prior to making the loan." or if. he has a trust. he might be coerced into bringing the trust to the new bank before he gets that loan. either he does that expressly or impliedly. there are many ways of doing it. by saying."well. we look upon this favorably but we are short of money. do you have any money in x.y.z banks." they might say. "why. yes. i have some money in x.y.z banks." they would say. "it would be easier to make this loan if you would take money out of x.y.z banks and put it in a bank." that could be done. these abuses could take place. we k they do take place in certain areas of the country. this provision is designed to prevent those abuses from taking place.
the distinguished senator from utah and i have high respect for the painter. but the senator from utah is more than a painter. even though he may  have gotten into a law firm. he is an able and skillful lawyer. the senator has referred to antitrust legislation. i think he has referred without any question to the fortner decision and i want to read briefly one paragraph from the mclaren letter and what he said about that. he brought it to the attention of the full committee on banking and currency: the proposed new section*the section we are  discussingwould go beyond the fortner decision. which did  go so far as to hold tieins involving credit illegal per se. thus. the proposed section would prevent the further spread of seriously anticompetitive practices which have developed in the banking and financial areas. . we k that has been developing.. there is doubt about it. we have had evidence of that. all i am saying is that if this amendment is agreed to. we are opening up the lending institutions to implied or express requirements along the lines i have set forth.
the burden of proof under existing antitrust law is much greater. if the senator would refer to the date of that letter. i think we have a grave and rather strange discrepancy concerning what mr. mclaren said initially. what he said after the committee print was reportedand after consultation with the banking community. but. at any rate. i think that the distinguished senator from utah would agree that if his amendment is agreed to. and his language is used in lieu of the committee language as adopted by the committee after full hearings. the effect would be to open up possibilities of abuses.
i -have  intention of hurting banks. but i certainly have intention of hurting those who must go to the. banks to borrow money and who could be exposed to these practices. i am  talking only about individuals but small businesses that go to banking institutions. insurance agents. and others that have to go to them for this purpose. we should do all we can to protect them against potential. abuses. the fed can -regulate adequately in this area. they have the sole authority to do that. i think that is the position of the committee. without having a laundry list as the senator from utah proposes in his amendment. i urge its rejection.
. this amendment would plug a gaping loophole in the securities exchange act. this amendment will offer maximum protection to the public. and its enactment will restore and build public confidence in our national securities institution. i ask unanimous consent that this amendment be printed at this point in the record.
. i modify my amendment as follows: on page 73. at the end of line 7. add the following: "such rules and regulations shall require the maintenance of reserves with respect to customers deposits or credit balances. as determined by such rules and regulatio ns." on page 73. after line 7. insert the following: . "sec. 4.csection 15(c) of thie securities exchange act of 1934 is amended by adding the following: december 10. 1970 coin "(6) (a) broker or dealer or member of a national securities exchange shall hold in custody or under a lien any security. or other property received from or on behalf of customers. except that such broker may hold in custody or under a lien or may lend or pledge an amount of such securities that is fair and reasonable in view of the aggregate indebtedness of said customers to said member. broker. or dealer and in compliance with such rules and regulations as the commission may prescribe for the protection of investors. " (b) when a broker or dealer or member receives or holds securities that are fully paid for or in excess of the amount which can be held in custody or under a lien or under a loan or pledge under this section or receives any moneys or other property from or on behalf of any customer. except in the ordinary course of business to complete a transaction for such customers. such member. broker. or dealer shall"(i) promptly deliver such securities. money. or other property to such customer. or " (it) upon the written consent of such customer. place or maintain siich securities. or other property in the custody of either a bank which has at all times an aggregate capital. surplus. and undivided profits of such specified minimum amount as may from time to time be prescribed by the commission. or of a clearing. corporation. central depository. or other facilities including those of the broker dealer subject to such qualifications as the rules and regulations of the commission may prescribe in the public interest and for the protection of investors. such securities. money. or other property shall  be removed by the broker or dealer from such bank. clearing corporation. central depository. or similar facility. except upon the specific authorization of such customer to complete a transaction for the account of such customer or for delivery to such customer or his designee and subject to such rules and regulations as the commission may prescribe in the public interest and for the protection of investors. " (c) this subsection shall become effective pursuant to regulations promulgated by the commission. in event. however. shall the effective date of this subsection be later than one year from the date of enactment of this act." on page 73. strike lines 8 and 9. and insert in lieu thereof the following: i "sec. 5. the amendments made by this act shall take effect upon the date of enactment of this act. unless otherwise specified herein."
. i thank my distinguished colleagues. the floor manager and the ranking republican member of the banking and currency committee. for their support of the amendment. i think that the amendments previously accepted by the floor manager. which provide that there be a study. that the committee make an indepth study. of the various practices of brokerdealers and report back to congress. will enable us to be afforded information which will be helpful to us in determining how we best can protect the individual investor as well as the aggregate of investors. i think. in addition. the reserves we have provided for and the authority being vested in the securities and exchange commission for the promulgation of rules and regulations could result in working toward a reserve fund which would be of maximum protection to the investor. i am  prepared at this time to say what that should be. i do  k. but i do believe that the sec can and. indeed. must promulgate such rules and regulations as would give us maximum security. perhaps at the beginning. since this would be immediate. it could of course take into consideration the ecoic conditions facing the country. but work toward maximum security. which may be 90 percent or 100 percent. i frankly do  k. i think that may be accomplished. and i think we are headed in the right direction.
. in an attempt to compromise this matter. i have had consultations with the distinguished manager of the bill. the senator from maine . the distinguished chairman of the banking and currency committee. the senator from alabama . the distinguished ranking miity member of the committee. the senator from utah . and with the distinguished chairman of the securities subcommittee. the senator from new jersey . and the distinguished ranking majority member of the committee. the senator from wisconsin
i thank the distinguished chairman of the committee on banking and currency. and also the chairman of the securities subcommittee. the senator from new jersey . for their assurances of early hearings. i think the statement made by our distinguished chairman that he was shocked when he found out such practices existed is certainly  uncommon in the nation. i just can believe that most investors would kingly permit their money or securities to be used by brokerdealers for their own purposes. i have brought this question up with several of our colleagues in the senate. who were unaware of these practicesmen of business background. men of legal backgroundwho just did  realize that these practices existed. i think we have a simple rule involved here. it involves the fundamental difference between "mine" and "thine." if i hold your money in safekeeping for you and use that money for my own personal uses. i think it is quite clear that i have been guilty of embezzlement and that i would be chargeable for the use of that money. there should be difference because the securities industry is involved. the securities industry says this has been the practice. of course. the mere fact that they have been doing it for a number of years does  make it right.  does it make it right that circumstances are such that to do otherwise would be injurious to them financially. that is very unfortunate. we regret that. we want to maintain stability in the securities business. we want to maintain. and increase. public confidence in the securities industry. i think what we have done to . with the agreement on the part of the sec and the spirit of cooperation on the part of the new york stock exchange. however. this is only a modest beginning. but i think we ought to warn them. as our chairman has said. that we will be giving this matter careful attention. we will be watching them. we will be expecting them to restructure and eliminate these practices which are really  fully understood and accepted by the american investing public. so i thank the distinguished chairman and the distinguished senator from new jersey for their comments and for their reassurance of an indepth hearing on this very important matter.
i thank the senator. he has been very ably discussing reform in this industry. i k he had some problems also that he had hoped would have been resolved along with the granting of insurance. which we all agree is essential if the industry is to maintain its stability. but i have great faith and confidence in the securities and exchange commission. i k they are hoable men. i k that they will abide by the letter to the senator from alabama . i also have confidence and faith in the president of the new york stock exchange. i am well aware that we will have voted borrowing $1 billion in treasury borrowing authority for them and that next year. when we begin hearings. the bill will have been passed and they will have had that available to them. however. we will still have oversight. we must insure that the investing public has complete protection. because that is what we are striving for in this legislation. so i think while this legislation may  be all we would like. circumstances today are such that we can go all the way. but we are serving ice and puting them on guard as to congressional intent. that congressional intent. as i interpret it. is to give maximum protection to the investing public which will in turn inure to their benefit and to the stability of our ecoy.
. social responsibility. on the part of individuals. organizations. and corporations. is becoming a byword. as rightl. it should. those who have the talent and resources owe it to society and their country to put a portion of these assets to work helping others. it also is important that we recognize those who have the foresight to undertake such endeavors and particularly members of the business community who take their responsibility seriously. therefore. i invite the attention of senators to an interesting story published in the march 1971. issue of black enterprise. a magazine which reports on miity business. the article. entitled "itt: a sense of involvement." relates the experience of this large corporation in setting up a miity enterprise small business development co. in new jersey. with a pledge of $200.000. itt has established the mesbic. in cooperation with rutgers university. to provide financing and management assistance to miity businesses. in the first 6 months of operations. about $50.000 of itts funds have been invested in 15 loans. including backing for a dry cleaner. two health spas. a restaurant. and a mens clothing store. this arrangement with rutgers is unique among mesbics already established. the article points out that it is the first instance of a business school running this type of operation in experiment which may be a solution to the problem some mesbics have of finding experts who have the time to lend their talents to less sophisticated miityowned business. i believe all of us who believe strongly in the need for social responsibility will be interested in this unique project. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. i rise today to discuss a matter of utmost importance to the lockheed aircraft corp.. its employees and shareholders. to large and small companies throughout the country. and to our ecoy as a whole. senate bill 2308. the "emergency loan guarantee act". which is presently being considered by this body. would provide loan guarantees in the amount of $250 million to the ailing aircraft manufacturer. when this matter was initially proposed. the senate was asked to report favorably s. 1891. a bill designed solely to aid lockheed. while the form of the guarantee proposal has changed considerably. and  embraces a $2 billion program designed to aid any major business enterprise "facing temporary adversity". the substance of the legislation has  changed. we are being asked tentatively to commit $250 million in taxpayers money to "bail out" the l1011 commercial airbus project. even though orivate lending institutions are unwilling to do so. for reasons which i will set forth later in my remarks. i believe it would be imprudent to approve such a measure. first. from a procedural point of view. it would be extremely unfortunate if this body considered and finally adopted a general guarantee bill when only 3 days of the 3 weeks of hearings were devoted to the broader approach. when a number of distinguished witnesses. including a former head of the justice departments antitrust division. testified against it. and when lockheed is the only issue before us. it is interesting to e that some proponents of the loan guarantee did  support a general guarantee bill until doubt was cast on the chances for passage of the original lockheed bill. furthermore. administration representatives have repeatedly testified that lockheed is the only company being considered for guarantee relief. the effective date of october 1. 1971. makes it abundantly clear that the intent of the legislation is to provide general relief. there is reason to believe. therefore. that the issue before us today differs significantly from the issue as it was originally framed. and i urge my colleagues in the senate to treat it accordingly. before discussing the lockheed proposal itself. i would like to make a few brief comments on the general guarantee proposal. while some sentiment has been expressed in favor of a reconstruction finance corporationtype approach to deal with the penn centrals of the futureif. in fact. such needs arisegreater consideration must be given to the development of this concept. a number of highly respected ecoists have argued that federal assistance should be used sparingly. if at all. for enterprises which are  ecoically viable. the private capital market will recognize those companies which are facing temporary adversities. but are nevertheless ecoically viable. in the absence of such recognition. it is a misallocation of ecoic resources to keep them alive by the use of government subsidies. federal guarantees for ailing corporations distort our free enterprise system and result in the substitution of political judgments and influence for market mechanisms which have traditionally served us well in allocating capital.
i do  believe that big business. or medium sized business. or small business supports this bill. frankly. i think the business community is in opposition to the bill. and i think the proponents of this bill have failed to carry the burden of proving that business really wants this. i think lockheed really wants it. but i do  think that other big business across the country thinks that this is the direction in which the country should be going. what is happening to the free enterprise system. i think it is in great danger by the passage of this bill. and i do  think the government should be getting into it. this is the chance that we take. it has been going on for years. we have been surviving very well with it. american business does  want to begin to come to the federal government every time that it has had mismanagement or poor management. or if. for some other reason. there is demand for their particular product in the marketplace. rather than shifting. they come to the government and ask the government to bail them out of a bad business situation. i think it  only is detrimental. because of the possibility of political influence. but it is also an invitation or an encouragement to. if  mismanagement. poor management by a corporation.
there is a big difference clear that we are  talking about lockat a time when the market is depressed. heed suddenly deciding to go into the to bring in a third competitor. it seems commercial airbus business in an already to me the timing is bad. overcrowded market. both lockheed and
instead of having a de- plane market. lockheed and mcdonnell pressed market which is supporting two douglas determined at that pointand ongoing manufacturers. it means we this was 5. 6. 8. maybe 10 years agoto would have three. the market might be go into these airbus programs and every more depressed. we might have to bail one in the country thought it was wot boeing or some of the others if lock- derful. it was said. "we will be prepared heed comes into the field. when the time comes. when the need
i do  think that necessarily follows. in bankruptcy. trustees are appointed who would probably be able to carry on the business. we have done that with the penn central. it seems to me the remaining divisions that are  in difficulty could carry on. so i do  think we would be hurt by our failure to pass this lockheed bailout bill insofar as the defense capability of lockheed is concerned. let me put this question to my colleague from georgia: if there is risk involved in the governments guarantee of $250 million. why do  the banks come in and bail lockheed out. they are very much concerned about this. why can they put up their money without a government guarantee. if there is risk. why should the federal government. why should the taxpayers. have to assume this risk for this private company.
the $2 billion guarantee program envisaged in this piece of legislation would also result in a diversion of funds from ecoically and socially important activities. presumably. bankers who would otherwise consider financing housing for lowincome families or projects which are designed to rejuvenate our cities. would prefer to utilize their funds in a manner which will reduce the likelihood of risk. the presence of federal guarantees may result. therefore. in a decline in the funds available for socially useful programs. while at the same time increasing the funds available for projects which have been deemed to be ecoically unsound by the forces of the marketplace. it may be argued that federal guarantees are also available for programs which are socially useful but ecoically unsound. such as the development of new communities and urban housing. however. there are important distinctions to be drawn between these programs and the one before us. housing and urban development programs often lack proven financial records on which to base financing. while most "major business enterprises" have a history of successful financial dealings and have assets which can be pledged against the risk of loss. in addition. urban programs often require a commitment of funds beyond the capabilities of most local governments or their creditorsabsent a guaranteewhile most major corporations have substantial lines of credit available if a project in question is commercially viable. if congress enacts the $2 billion guarantee program presently before the senate. and if that program is applied on a general basis. there is reason to believe that lenders will be encouraged to extend credit to those corporations large egh and with sufficient political clout to obtain government assistance if they fail. while smaller and less influential firms will receive little. if any. assistance. in addition. lenders may be encouraged to apply routinely for guarantee assistance to minimize their risks of loss. i am persuaded by former antitrust chief donald f. turners remarks: when the private capital market refuses to make a loan to a particular firm. or will make it only at a rate of interest which the firm can afford to pay. it does so on a calculation that the risk of payment is either too great to warrant any loan at all or too great to warrant a loan at other than the high interest rate. i also find it difficult to accept the ion that we should be providing financial assistance to corporations of a given size. while iging others which may face similar difficulties. last year. more than 10.000 u.s. companies failed. with losses approaching $2 billion. financial problems have plagued a host of corporations in the past and will undoubtedly and unfortunately afflict many others in the future. such events are mal occurrences in a dynamic. free enterprise ecoy. it is inevitable that those firms which are less efficient. or which make unsound ecoic judgments. will be faced with problems similar to those encountered  by lockheed. but this is as it should be in a free enterprise ecoy. without seeking to contribute to an already embarrassing situation. i would like to cite some of deputy secretary of defense david packards remarks before the banking committee. because they evidence sentiments which i also share. in response to several questions framed by senator proxmire. secretary packard stated: i am  in favor of bailing out companies . . . as you k. i have been trying in the past year to work . . . out (defense procurement problems). and if. indeed. you have a bailout. this is  going to be helpful. * * * * * i would hope ... that (the lockheed bill) is  adopted as a precedent. because i think it would be dangerous to have this . . . used on a wide basis. secretary packard went on to state that adequate authority exists to aid ailing companiesfor example. vloansand hence additional authority is  needed at this time. i was sorry to learn that secretary packards original statement before the house banking committeeconcerning the inadvisability of adopting a general guarantee bill which would encourage a continuation of wasteful government procurement practiceswas with withdrawn. i share secretary packards original views and i am sure that many of my colleagues in the senate who have followed procurement problems closely in recent years. also share his sentiments and appreciate his candor. the issue before us today. is  whether general guarantee authority should be provided to the president or to a federal board. but whether the federal government should guarantee bank loans to a private company which is engaged in a business project of dubious commercial value. i am convinced that lockheed aircraft corp. and its supporters have  carried the burden of proof necessary to establish the need for federal assistance. at the outset. it has been argued that the 24bank consortium financing lockheed will  advance additional funds to complete the airbus project without a federal guarantee. representatives of the consortium have made categorical statements to that effect. arguing that many of the banks are coming close to their legal lending limits. it is interesting to e. however. that only two of the banks involvedwhich have furnished less than 1 percent of lockheeds outstanding credit on this projecthave come within $1.5 million of their lending limits. according to information provided to the banking committee. the banks as a whole. fall more than $600 million short of their legal lending limits. with two of the banks alone. being able to furnish more than $85 million each without the need for federal guarantees. furthermore. the consortium could obtain additional collateral for its loans. other bank loans to lockheeds suppliers and airline customers would be jeopardized if the l1011 project were discontinued. thereby providing the banks with additional incentives to make further loans. and. according to lockheeds projections which have  been disputed. the aircraft manufacturer has "firm orders" for egh airbuses to repay the $250 million loan entirely. even if lockheed failed to sell more than the number of planes under firm orders. the consortium could recoup its $250 million and might have contributed to the commercial viability of the project. thereby stimulating additional business for the banks involved. the bankers reluctance to lend additional funds is certainly understandable under the present circumstances. they would rather make loans which are guaranteed by the federal government. however. they should  expect the american taxpayer to bear the burden of unsound business decisions when they are unwilling to do so themselves. one banker who testified on behalf of the consortium alluded to the fact that the federal government should become a "partner" in this commercial venture. in my judgment. however. we have seen too many examples in recent years of federal funds being wasted on unsound procurement programs and other federal spending projects. it is time for congress to put an end to policies which contribute to waste and inefficiency both in business and in government. at a time when many small businesses have failed. or have reduced employment substantially. one can hardly justify bailing out other firms solely because of their size or political influence. if lockheeds financial position is so precarious that its creditors would have forced the giant aerospace company into bankruptcy before  except that. as one banker put it. "we dont want to be the ones to pull the plug." then one must assess the probable effects of such bankruptcy. first. it is  at all certain that the l1011 project would be scrapped as a result of bankruptcy. for a trustee could issue "trustee certificates" and thereby obtain additional financing. similarly. a trustee could "spin off" the airbus project to a financially stronger company. deputy secretary of defense packard has already testified that while the continuation of "defense programs will be less troublesome if the company survives." these contracts can be continued under bankruptcy without jeopardizing our national defense posture. therefore. the only issue remaining is whether failure of the airbus project is likely to have sufficient impact on our ecoy to warrant government assistance. proponents of the lockheed loan have described a multitude of hardships which will be endured by the employees of lockheed and its suppliers. by service industries located in communities surrounding the lockheed production facilities and those of its suppliers. and by the ecoy as a whole. if lockheed fails. i am  at all convinced that these hardships need arise. on the contrary. a number of alternative proposals have been advanced during the course of our deliberations. thus far. which should be given serious consideration by lockheeds management if the l1011 program is indeed a viable project. if a federal guarantee is  forthcoming and the l1011 project ceases. an ecoetric model developed by the university of california at los angeles graduate school of business administration indicates that unemployment in california would increase from a seasonally unadjusted level of 7.4 percent registered in may of this year to approximately 7.7 percent. similarly. the unemployment rate in southern california would increase from 6.9 percent in may to 7.4 percent. this is. of course. still serious. but  when it is being claimed by the proponents of the lockheed bailout bill. while present levels of unemployment in california and other states can be tolerated. the aerospace industry has long been subject to cyclical fluctuations which have been borne by the communities affected. my own state of massachusetts is presently undergoing a period of readjustment with thousands of scientists and engineers unemployed. but federal assistance has  been forthcoming to lighten the burdens of ecoic conversion. i have introduced several bills which are designed to deal with this problem and i am hopeful that the banking committees subcommittee on defense production and stabilization will report them favorably later in this session of congress. but the intent of the legislation which i have proposed is to aid in conversion.  to bolster a failing enterprise whose market is clearly marginal. when secretary of the treasury connally testified here almost 2 months ago. he stated that guarantee authority was being sought by the administration  because the l1011 necessarily would be a commercial success. but because failure of that program at this time would have a most serious and adverse effect on employment and the ecoy. i question whether the programs demise will seriously affect the ecoy of california and the nation as a whole. lockheed and its suppliers have already laid off over 20.000 workers since the beginning of this year. with the number laid off exceeding the number of workers remaining on the project. i question whether it is wise to postpone the day of reckoning for those involved in this program by guaranteeing them dead end jobs. it is arguable that the limited ecoic effects of the l1011s demise would be more than offset by increased employment at mcdonnell douglas in los angeles which produces the rival dc10. at domestic engine production facilities which would benefit from the use of americanmade engines. and at thousands of small companies throughout the country which would produce parts for competing aircraft. although the sizable increases in employment projected by mcdonnell douglas and general electric must be viewed as selfserving. their estimates are nevertheless based on reasonable assumptions and therefore should  be rejected. finally. it has been argued that rolls royce1971limitedand. in turn. the british governmentwill  supply the rb 211 engine to lockheed unless a federal guarantee is obtained by august 8 of this year. even though the use of domestically produced engines may  be commercially feasible at this stage of development. there is reason to believe that the british government will ho its obligations when faced with the harsh realities of u.s. government guarantee and the loss of approximately 30.000 british jobs. in conclusion. senate bill 2308 should be rejected because adequate consideration has  been given to the general guarantee approach and because a guarantee for lockheed aircraft corp. alone is  justified by the facts presented. there is a natural ecoic incentive for the banks involved to expand their loans without a guarantee. if the project is indeed commercially viable. bankruptcy need  result in discontinuation of the l1011. and the impact of lockheeds failure or the airbus demise on our national ecoy and defense posture is  sufficient to warrant supporting the proposed guarantee. . let there be doubt that is generic bill. it is purely and simply a lockheed bailout bill. and hing else. it never was intended to be anything more. i. therefore. urge my colleagues in the senate to review the facts carefully and to separate the chaff from the substantive material presented thus far. before making their decisions. i urge the senate to reject the lockheed bailout bill.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the miity business equity investment act of 1972. introduced by the distinguished junior senator from new york . ecoic opportunity continues to bypass a substantial proportion of miity citizens. and even of miity businessmen. admission into the ranks of the ecoically successful has come slowly and in some cases painfully. only in the last decade have we passed through a "time of confrontation" between the white majority of americans and our racial miities. if we are to move away from a closed ecoic society. the 1970s must become a "time for negotiation." the problem of broadening ecoic opportunity has been argued best in the testimony of james f. hansley. chairman of the mesbic section of the national association of small business investment companies. when he appeared before the small business subcommittee of the senate committee on banking. housing and urban affairs: miity businessmen are fighting a life and death type struggle to gain a little greater share of the business sales of the ecoy. the commerce department presented the plight of black businessmen particularly. very clearly. last year when it reported that in 1969 the 163.000 black owned businesses had sales of $4.5 billion. in the same year. 1969. all businesses had sales of more than $1.8 trillion. those statistics indicate that although blacks represent 11% of the population. the sales of black owned companies were less than (.3 %) three tenths of one percent of the sales of all u.s. businesses. even more disturbing is the fact that the average black owned business had sales of less than $30.000 per year. in a society where free enterprise is the byword. this situation should be considered to be intolerable. the legislation introduced today affords a remedy for this problem. the proposal would encourage equity financing for miity owned businesses through the same channels generally available to other businesses. this proposal offers a viable alternative for providing ecoic opportunity to miity businesses. it possesses several advantages derived from the unlimited return and the shortterm guarantees of the equity investment. in the first instance. the proposal will result in an increase in equity capital made available by investment companies for miityowned businesses. heretofore. most investments have been made by commercial bankers providing only operating funds. investment bankers have been hesitant to invest without a guarantee because of the high risk involved. this fact coupled with the fact that the return on an sbaguaranteed loan was too low. has resulted in very little venture capital being invested in miityowned firms. the unlimited return allowed by this legislation and the 70percent proposed guarantee will produce the incentive needed to encourage participation. second. an equity investment creates a partnership between the investor and the entrepreneur. the anticipated increase in equity investments under this legislation will result in increased guidance and assistance to miityowned businesses by investment bankers. one of the most important needs of many miity businesses is managerial expertise. as long as the banker is secure in his loan. he has incentive to lend his managerial talents. but. the legislation being introduced today provides an incentive for investor concern. whether the goal is to minimize losses or to maximize gains. this proposal will encourage active participation by the equity investors. the miity business equity investment act of 1972 represents a new initiative in the area of financing miityowned businesses. it is an attempt to build on the business expertise that has been developed to date. it will provide the necessary ecoic and managerial assistance to miityowned enterprises so that they can compete effectively in the open market. the senator from new york is to be commended for his efforts to assist realistically the growth of miityowned businesses. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of this important legislation and hope that it will be given early consideration. by mr. percy:
. we attempted to create a decentralized system in which program production anti program distribution would be in the hands of those at the local. rather than national. level so that these pressures would be minimized and local people would determine local needs free of interference. i believe this system has worked well and i disagree emphatically with attempts by the corporation to reserve for itself more control over the local stations. since recent events have exacerbated the gulf between the corporation and the local stations. events occurring too late for us to take positive action on. i hope the house will be convinced to make as clear as possible that this system must be based on local control. only by creating and maintaining true localism in public broadcasting can the system both effectively serve the people and protect itself from inappropriate political interference.
as the senator ks. i do  think our committee wants to give mutual savings banks or any other banks a competitive advantage over the other. on the other hand. we are going to do all we can to give consumers the opportunity to get the best banking services that the consumer can get.
yes. i certainly would. i think it must be remembered that massachusetts thrift institutions are quite different than institutions in other states. our banking system is quite different. we have a strong state bank regulatory agency there. it has worked. it is working well. i think this applies to new hampshire. i see my colleague from new hampshire present on the floor. and i will  comment further on it as it applies to new hampshire. but it is a unique situation which i think the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs has. to its credit. recognized for years. the  accounts originated in the commonwealth of massachusetts as a device which would be helpful to consumers. they have been permitted there. this question has been taken to the supreme judicial court of massachusetts and found to be constitutional and they are proceeding under the ruling of its highest court. so i do  think there is any question of constitutionality or legality. as i understand it. what the senator from tennessee is trying to do by his amendment is merely to restrict other states from permitting  accounts. which. in the senators opinion. could be competitively disadvantageous to other banking institutions. primarily small banking institutions-
. i am very pleased to have heard the colloquy between of the distinguished chairman of the committee and the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee concerning the protection of small investors. the chairman will recall that some years ago. after the failure of some brokerage houses. i proposed the segregation of cash and securities. so that brokerage houses would  use or intermingle their cash with the cash of investors or pledge the fully paid securities of the investor for obligations of the firm. at that time. some brokerage houses were in bankruptcy. and in liquidation of the assets of those firms we were unable to distinguish what belonged to the customers and what belonged to the brokerage firms. consequently. some persons were injured very badly. as the subcommittee chairman has said. we went further at that time and came to an agreement with the new york stock exchange and the commission that the sec would promulgate rules under the securities exchange act to prevent future intermingling of customer cast. and securities with those of the firm. we asked the securities and exchange commission to draft regulations. because we were aware that if we were to stop instantaneously the intermingling of cash and securities. the result would have been disastrous to the stock market at that time. however. we agreed that we would gradually work toward such a separation. these sec regulations have only been in effect since january of this year. it is still too early to k what effect they are having on brokerage house operations. however. we hope that very shortly we shall have that information together with the kind of cooperation the commission is receiving from the various brokerage houses throughout the country in enforcing this rule. so that the maximum protection might be afforded the consumer. i want to e this progress on free credit balances because it is proposed in the bills upon which the committee has been workingand in particular this billthat we make certain that  only is the consumer protected. but that more of the american public will be encouraged to become investors in the stock market. i think it is good to point out that we have made some very serious progress in this area already.
i thank the distinguished chairman. i may add that the senator from new jersey . the chairman of the subcommittee. as a result of that debate which took place on the floor of the senate. when we were near the end of the session. and there was a question whether we would be able to pass the bill at all. stated that he would see to it that we would have a study and go into it in depth. that we would consider the intermingling of cash and securities and with the aid of the securities and exchange commission would look into all aspects of the financial operations and securities processing of the brokerage industry. the chairman of the securities subcommittee . of course. then put together a staff. i think they have done an exceptionally fine job. it is an exceptionally fine staff which has done a lot of extremely fine work. including four case studies. many. many hours of complex hearing. and two hallmark analytical reports on the industrys most pressing ecoic and regulatory problems. as i pointed out. this is the first piece of legislation to come out of the studys recommendations. but other pieces of legislation will follow. and in due course i think we can restore a full measure of public confidence to this industry. when that happens i am sure we will see a marked improvement in present market conditions.
. this legislation which i introduce today will permit member banks to borrow from the reserve banks on security of any sound assets without paying such a "penalty" rate of interest. moreover. i believe that the enactment of this provision will further buttress and compliment the provisions of this bill regarding real estate lending by national banks. together. it is my hope that these provisions will stimulate our national banks to become a significant source of mortgage credit for our beleaguered housing markets. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. processing ecoies. the public interest in protecting investors against loss of securities and cash. the financial and operational responsibilities of brokerdealers. the need for greater public confidence in the market system and the expectation that the markets of the future will be required to handle higher volume. all require a modernized nationwide system for consummating securities transactions. this legislation goes a long way toward providing the necessary framework for that system. i urge swift passage of this bill as it has been reported by the committee.
. in order to insure the complete development of the  account experiment intended by the conferees. i wish to point out that while section 3 of the bill does extend federal rate control authority over uninsured mutual savings banks in massachusetts thereby assuring uniform federal regulatory authority over these accounts. it is  the intention that these agencies should take steps to prematurely limit them in these states. this authority is created to provide a safeguard against damaging disintermediation caused directly by these accounts. a possibility that seems greatly diminished by the fact that the conferees have contemplated that these accounts should  be limited simply to mutual savings banks in these two states. time and again. the conferees on h.r. 6370 debated the merits of the many proposals before it to require either the establishment of a definite expiration date for the  account experiment in our two states or qualify these accounts in some other manner. each time such a limitation was voted down. and accordingly. e is mentioned at any point in the conference report. the intent of the conferees with respect to the imposition of restrictions on  accounts in these states is clearthere should be e. in my judgment. it would be highly desirable for  accounts to be offered on a fully competitive basis by all banking institutions with particular restrictions for the coming several months. only if this experiment is permitted to continue on a free and fully competitive basis will be evidence the congress hopes to obtain be available.
. the past several years have witnessed a marked increase in the number of new financial services offered by nearly all institutional investors. moreover. this trend appears to have accelerated to the point where this nations securities markets are seeing an intensifying competition between investment advisers. banks. brokers. and insurance companies for the publics investment dollar. perhaps the most aggressive and inative of all tyes of financial institutions in attempting to attract securities investors have been banks. a growing number of banks have diversified their traditional range of investment services to include those aimed primarily at the smallest public investor. a current example of such bank investment services is the checking account based automatic investment plan services being offered by several banks. through this service. banks. by an automatic monthly charge to customer checking accounts. offer them an opportunity to purchase shares of certain designated companies. such services are being aggressively marketed through newspaper and prime time radio and television advertisements. with the proliferation of banksponsored investment plans. however. there exists the possibility that unless subject to some securities regulation. these bank programs could exacerbate serious structural imbalances in our securities markets. and possibly even work to the detriment of the small investor they are designed to service. for one thing. automatic bank investment programs seem to be often concentrated in only a relatively small group of issues generally the favorites of large institutional investors. thus it has been pointed out that this phee could aggravate the socalled two tier market. moreover. if such services contribute to an increase in investment concentration already present in our securities markets. the ability of many solid corporations. both large and small. to raise capital could be greatly impaired. similarly. while pooling of orders by a bank sponsoring such plans may result in sore cost savings to investors. they may also serve to increase the percentage of large securities transactions and decrease the number of individual small orders critical to the depth and liquidity of our securities markets. of equal. if  greater concern. is the status of those individual investors who choose to participate in these bank sponsored programs. although banks sponsoring automatic investment plans are affecting transactions in securities for accounts of their customers. they are excluded from the statutory definition of the term broker as set forth in the securities and exchange act of 1934. as a result. other than certain generally applicable provisions of federal law. banks are  subject to regulatory requirements imposed on broker dealers by the commission for the protection of investors. moreover. unlike brokers and dealers registered with the securities and exchange commission. banks have  been subjected. in all instances. to the prevailing requirement that recommendations be suitable for the potential securities investor.  are they otherwise held accountable for inappropriate advertising material. sec chairman ray garrett has recently pointed out even though issuers may be well established and have very substantial assets. it does  necessarily follow that such securities are suitable investments for all investors. . he points out. should we lose sight of the fact that a voluntary determination by banks to offer the most highly capitalized securities to their customers is  in fact the same. either as a matter of law or practicality. as an explicit regulatory requirement to that effect. there are still other possible problems posed for individual investors participating in many of these programs. where unregulated entities engage in the business of affecting securities transactions. a question immediately arises as to whether the price charged to individual customers is as favorable as possible under the prevailing market conditions. or for that matter whether customers will receive adequate confirmation of their purchases and whether individuals leaving securities with a bank pursuant to an automatic investment program are fully protected in the event of any financial difficulties of the bank. accordingly. i am today introducing legislation to afford the sec limited jurisdiction over the securities activities of banks offering automatic investment plan services. however. this bill allows the commission broad exemptive powers to exclude from regulation traditional bank securities activities unrelated to the offering of these plans. it specifically exempts banks from the application of section 15(c) (3) of the securities exchange act. this section contains the basic statutory requirements related to the financial responsibility and related practices of brokers. including the most basic one of allthe net capital rule. such rules can and should  apply to banks. i would anticipate. therefore. that under this legislation the commission would deal primarily with the questions of suitability of investment. most favorable execution of transactions and the ecoic impact of these programs upon our securities markets. the purpose of this legislation is  to prohibit banks from expanding their services beyond their traditional trust and investment functions. this bill does  ban aip accounts. they appear to be an inative and worthwhile consumer service. rather. its purpose is to insure that individual customers who participate in these programs are afforded all applicable and necessary protections  available to other types of investors. increased competition created between banks and brokers could well prove beneficial to the investing public. but i do  believe that it is either desirable or appropriate to encourage competition at the very heavy cost of sacrificing needed regulatory protection. persons or entities engaged in comparable activities should be subject to comparable regulation. and it is my view that with respect to the automatic investment plan services i have described such regulation does   exist. these small account services seem to presage a change in the traditional methods by which securities are bought and sold in this country. because of the overriding importance of such change to both our financial markets and their most effective regulation. congress should have an opportunity to decide by whom and to what extent such activities should be regulated. the legislation i am offering today offers one means of insuring that all competitors in our securities markets play under the same rules and are treated in a similar regulatory fashion. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed at this point in the record.
i certainly understand what my colleague proposes to do by this amendment. we had quite a discussion of the amendment in the appropriations committee. the matter presently before the senate is a matter which is under consideration in the banking committee. the international finance subcommittee of the banking committee has held extensive hearings and will have additional hearings. and hopes to mark up a bill in the very near future. i question the wisdom of having the senate agree to this amendment at this time. before the banking committee. which has jurisdiction over the exportimport bank. has had an opportunity to conduct its hearings and mark up its bill. i have serious reservations as to what the action by the senate will be interpreted to signify. at a time when the secretary of state. mr. kissinger. is trying his very best to strengthen detente with the soviet union. i feel that this may be the wrong move to make when we need to move cautiously. the views of the secretary of state. who. i think it is by all agreed. is doing an excellent job. should be given great weight in actions affecting relations with the soviet union. this has   been done in this case. for us to precipitiously vote on and pass this amendment at this time. in my opinion. might  be in the best interest of the united states and might negatively affect interests we have in d6tente with the soviet union. i was hopeful that the senator from pennsylvania would  bring this amendment to the floor after we had thoroughly discussed it in the appropriations committee and voted upon it. the banking committee should be given the opportunity to provide the senate with the benefit of its hearings. which. as i have said. have been rather exhaustive. and of which we will receive the results in a very short period of time before we act on this issue.
. that i am concerned about the implications of the stated intentions of the management of the mobil oil corp. to move this acquisition to a successful conclusion. i assume that the justice departments antitrust division is already researching the affair. and i hope my colleagues. senators hart. and hruska will consider utilizing the antitrust and mooly subcommittee of the judiciary committee to investigate fully the relationship between increased oil company profits and the utilization of those profits to increase the concentration of ecoic power in an ecoy already capable of sustaining double digit inflation and a high rate of unemployment simultaneously.
. the present compromise on legal services is one i shall reluctantly support. soon after the legal services program began. oeo recognized that programs providing legal assistance to eligible clients required support and backup services in order to assure the effective delivery of legal services to the poor. neighborhood lawyers. working in programs deluged by clients. were unable to research the many federal and state programs affecting the poor or research complex legal problems. were  trained in new fields of substantive law or procedure. and were unable to keep abreast of new developments. because services provided to the private bar focused on poverty law specialties. to meet these problems faced by the neighborhood attorney. backup services were provided by oeo through programs funded by grant or contract. . a legislative compromise has shifted the approach. however. this legislation does  eliminate these backup services. it does  eliminate specialized research. preparation of manuals and handbooks. the training of attorneys in procedure and substance  does it eliminate the need for a clearinghouse or for technical assistance relating to the delivery of legal assistance activities. it is the intent of this legislation to continue these services to legal services attorneys. as much as i oppose this compromise agreed upon to preserve legal services. as much as i believe that the present means of delivery of such backup services have proved efficient and effective. and as much as i reject the contentions of those opposed to the socalled "backup centers." i have come to the conclusion that the corporation can undertake these services. and thus this compromise will have my reluctant support. backup services are  just necessary for local legal services attorneys. they are also necessary for legal services programs or program components who have the resources. capability. and specialization to participate in complex litigation or to represent client or client groups before state and federal legislative and administrative bodies. these state and national programs require a clearinghouse. require the development of litigation manuals and handbooks. require specialized research and analysis. and require national training in technical. specialized poverty law subjects. it is the intent of this legislation that such backup services continue to be provided and provided fully and without any interruption to programs providing legal assistance to eligible clients. in providing such backup. the corporation has substantial leeway. the development of a large staff working in one office may  be at all necessary. regional offices. dispersed throughout the country and in close contact with local programs. should be considered. the delivery of training and technical assistance should utilize the expertise and experience developed in response to legal services program needs and may best be delivered through consultants. the corporation should carefully explore how most effectively and efficiently to provide these backup services while at the same time assuring that programs receive substantial disruption in their delivery.
. it should be ed that one of the most highly respected bankers in this nation. david rockefeller. was quoted 2 weeks ago as stating that our present ecoic "situation is uncertain egh so that one shouldnt discard the possibility of a panic." he went on to state that our banking system "must exercise its own restraint. avoid speculative action and improve the quality of its loans." a great deal has happened in the last 2 weeks and there is reason for optimism. moreover. i am confident that we will weather the ecoic storm as we have weathered the political storm. nevertheless. one can be sanguine about certain practices which undermine the stability of our financial institutions. only if the provisions of the proposed bill are enacted into law will the potentially unsound banking practices to which i have referred be eliminated. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of my bill accompanied by a sectionbysection analysis and a comparison of the bill with the present regulatory treatment of standby letters of credit be printed at this point in the record.
i would  object to the ceiling. as i said. i think that the senator made a contribution by substituting the $42.000 for the $45.000. but i do  k why hud would feel that it would be administratively difficult for them to set ceiling by market areathey have done so in setting market rests for leased housing. i would certainly want some assurance on this side that they would make that determination so far as these lowcost areas are concerned. i do  k of any other way to do it other than by the language in the bill.
. the last several months have been very difficult ones for the financial structure of this country. many banks have had to sharply curtail lending activities and spend much of their time assisting troubled clients in curing problem loans. the impact of these banking difficulties has been felt by miity businesses and miity banks. in particular. the unity bank & trust co. of boston has kn its share of hard times. it has been to the brink and returned. the manner in which it has accomplished its upward climb should be both instructive and inspirational for all american businessmen. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that the recent article from the january 1975. issue of the new englander concerning the unity bank be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have the following members of the banking committee staff have the privileges of the floor during the debate on this measure and the rollcall votes: tony cluff. lamar smith. jerry buckley. and tommy brooks.
i agree with the senator. i asked questions of the banking community when they were testifying. i asked them whether they saw this coming. they said they were taking the word of new york city officials. to be sure. they were sophisticated bankers. but they say they took the word of new york city officials.
the senator from virginia is asking pertinent questions. he is entitled to k. and the senate is entitled to k what the interest of the banks are. what they stand to derive from this. and what the federal government would be doing in order to help these banks out. i think that is good. but the point that the distinguished chairman of our committee makes is pertinent. i can say. from the republican side of the aisle. i talked with practically all of our colleagues and there has been virtually lobbying on the part of the banking community. i have received calls at all from new york bankers. i asked the bankers. as the senator ks. some very embarrassing questions when we had the committee hearings. i received calls and objections from them. i believe they answered the questions honestly. they admitted that they had a very deep vested interest in this. and they tried to be as objective as they could. but they admitted that they had an interest. and i think that was healthy. but there has been virtually lobbying by the banking community. and i wish to assure the senator from virginia of that from our side. the distinguished chairman says that the banks have  pressured him and he certainly would have been the one who would have been lobbied most. i am sure. of the whole committee. i am sure there are boston banks that have some of this paper. as i am sure there are possibly some virginia banks and wisconsin banks. it is  all new york city banks that have some of this paper. as we very well k. but there has been little or lobbying. to my kledge. and i wish to assure the senator from virginia of that fact. the banks were invited to testify before us. they answered all the questions very candidly. and everything we have asked them to do they did under the circumstances. the committee and the bankers fully realize that they were a party in interest and so stated before the committee.
the senator from virginia and i have talked several times about this matter. in the corridor and elsewhere. and i k of the senator from virginias very keen interest in and concern about this matter. actually. the concern that he has is a concern that i share with him. as he very well ks. i was disturbed about the fact that when you take a riskyou buy a security or you buy a bondyou can profit from it or you can lose. and the banks should be in better position than john doe. who might buy a security and assume a risk. if the corporation is suing a security goes bankrupt and is defunct. then the investor loses his investment. there is a right to profit. but there is also a right to lose or to fail. i agree with the senator. that is the american system. and we certainly do support that. when the banks appeared before us. i was even further disturbed that they were  at that point ready to make any concessions. they felt that they had done all they should do. i was even further concerned when the new york city officials felt that they had done all they could do. then. when the new york state officials came inthe goverand said. "look. we have done all we could possibly do." i asked the bankers the same question that the senator from virginia asked: "you say you have done everything you can do.  you want the federal government to come in. you say the risk is too great for you to take. but is  too great for the federal government to take."
the senator might then ask how i have changed my position. i have  changed. i think they have changed. as i said in my initial statement. the banks have done more than they said they would doand. of course. we suspected they wouldbecause they are interested parties. they do have a great stake in this. the city of new york has done much more. with all the new taxes that have been passed by the state legislature. which gover carey thought at that time could  possibly have been passed by the state legislature. all i am saying to the senator from virginia is that i think we have exacted from the city officials. from the state officials. from the banking community. and from the municipal labor unions all that reasonably could be expected under the circumstances. if i did  feel this way. i would  be supporting the legislation before the senate today.
well. cornfield lawyers sometimes are much better than philadelphia lawyers. i am  going to say boston lawyers. but philadelphia lawyers. under those circumstances. what we are trying to do is to give new york an opportunity to get the private sector to extend its loans. to reduce its debts. to renegotiate pension3. and do many other things that have been frequently mentioned in order to avoid default.  just to save face. to be sure. because what we are trying to do is to put new york into a situation where it will at some time in the near future become creditworthy. "creditworthy" is the key word. if a city becomes creditworthy then. of course. it can go into the bond market. i never did buy the argument that if new york city defaulted. it meant that other cities would ipso facto  be able to go into the bond market. cities and states that are creditworthy can go into the bond market matter what happens to new york because investors have faith in their creditworthiness. but what we are here trying to do is to put new york city back into a situation where over a period of time it become creditworthy. the senator from oklahoma recognizes that new york city obviously can overnight or within a few months turn the situation around so that it can balance its budget. i think 1978 is a realistic time for the city to balance its budget. and that is what we are trying to give them an opportunity to do. so i do  want the senator to feel this is just a charade. that new york is actually in default and will go into default. i do  think it is that way at all. i think if we pass this legislation the city will  be going into default. either de jure or de facto default. but will have time. which it needs. to rearrange its financial affairs so it will become creditworthy and be able to go into the bond market. be able to pay off the federal government. which has a priority. and then be able to pay off its creditors.
i k how strongly the senator from alabama feels about this legislation and how strongly he feels that this is  the proper course for the federal government to take. but i think by passing the senate bill and sending us to conference with this. it might be even selfdefeating for the senator from alabama. i voted against the senate bill. and it was carried by an 8 to 5 vote in the senate banking committee. but i said then that we were spinning our wheels and that it was an exercise in futility. because the president had said very clearly that he would veto it. i think because the president threatened to veto thatit was  an idle threat. i think he was sincere. that he would veto it and still would veto itthat we were able to get the city of new york. the state of new york. the private sector. and the labor unions. as well. to do what they have done during this interim period. i think the distinguished chairman of our committee very clearly stated in the record that this is quite different from the conrail bill. conrail is  under any pressure of december 11. new york is under pressure of december 11. or a few days thereafter. if we were to do as the senator has suggested and adopt the senate bill socalled. or the banking committee bill socalled. and then go into conference. we would have to go into conference with the house. obviously. the deadline would  permit us to arrive at any conclusion.  1. unless we receded to the house. that we would have a bill which the president would sign into law and be in effect. timely egh for new york city to avoid default. i believe we have a much better bill . and i think that the senator from alabama will agree that we have a much better bill  for his purposes. for my purposes. and i believe really for the purposes of the country. than we had. with all due respect to the senator from illis who did a tremendously effective job on that legislation. we are certainly risking much less money than we were risking.  the $4 billion that was included in that bill but the $2.3 billion. as the senator has wisely pointed out. we  have sort of a gentlemens agreement because new york has acted. their legislature has acted. and they have written in new taxes. so i think the protection for the federal government is much greater with the bill the president has proposed than it would be if we had to go back  and adopt the senate bill and go into conference with the house of representatives.
. in june 1972 the consumers savings bank of worcester. mass.. began offering its customers a new kind of account. a  account.  accounts. as my colleagues well k. give the customers of financial institutions an opportunity to write negotiable orders of withdrawal against their savings accounts while still receiving interest on the savings in these accounts. and it is  hard to understand why this type of account is very popular with consumers. in the 3 years since  accounts were introduced. the number of accounts has risen to over 500.000 in massachusetts alone. and that number is growing at a rate of approximately 30.000 per month. in 1973 some members of congress. at the urging of certain segments of the financial community. sought to enact a nationwide ban on  accounts. however. senator mcintyre and i were able to secure an exemption from the ban on  accounts for massachusetts and new hampshire. and these accounts have fluorished in our two states. in september. senator mcintyre and i went to massachusetts and new hampshire for oversight hearings on  accounts in the financial institutions subcommittee. which senator mcintyre chairs. testimony at these hearings revealed that  accounts have been enthusiastically accepted by the consuming public and are widely offered by all types of financial institutions. witness.  even the institutions which originally opposed  accounts. testified in favor of their discontinuation. in fact. there are widespread agreements that  accounts should be extended nationwide. s. 1267. the financial institutions act. which is presently on the calendar. would extend  accounts nationwide. and while there is still some reluctance to support this approach on the part of certain financial institutions. it is generally recognized that  accounts are the "wave of the future." but while we look for early passage of fia and the extension of  accounts nationwide. a situation has developed in new england which calls for immediate attention. the new england states other than massachusetts and new hampshire have anticipated fia and already granted state chartered institutions thirdparty payment powers. in effect. all statechartered thrift institutions as well as all commercial banksboth national and statecharteredin connecticut. maine. rhode island. and vermont will or already have some type of transaction account power by january 1. 1976. in fact of the 941 financial institutions in new england. only the 31 federal savings and loan associations will  have some type of third party payment powers or access to such powers as of the first of the year. the amendment i offer today would remedy this inequity by exempting all financial institutions in maine. vermont. connecticut. and rhode island from the ban on  accounts presently existing. in effect. institutions in these states would be put on the same footing as their counterparts in massachusetts and new hampshire. the amendment is essential to maintain the dual banking system and to preserve competitive parity between state and federally chartered financial institutions in the affected states. in order to have a workable dual banking system. congress and the various state legislatures are asked from timetotime to enact laws which will give financial institutions under their respective jurisdictions adequate investment and deposit authority to allow them to compete with one aher without being placed at a competitive disadvantage. without this amendment. the 31 federal savings and loan associations located in the four new england states previously mentioned will  be able to offer any form of transaction account by january 1 and will thus be placed at a severe competitive disadvantage. the senator from texas has expressed some concern to me about the possibility that by extending  accounts throughout new england. we shall be "piecemealing" the financial institutions act. and weakening its chances for early enactment. the senator well ks that i strongly support the financial institutions act. and i shall continue to work with him for its early passage. i do  believe that this amendment will diminish the drive to get fia passed. and if i did. i would  offer the amendment. to be sure. if the amendment extended authority to issue  accounts throughout the country. then it could take some of the momentum out of fia. but the granting of  account powers to all institutions in new england. where most institutions already have third party payment powers. will . in my opinion. take the momentum from fia. this amendment. passed under emergency circumstances. should  be regarded as a precedent for piecemealing the financial institutions act. and i want the senator from texas and the senator from new hampshire to k that i will work with them to assure the earliest possible enactment of the financial institutions act.
. we have come a long way. and i think we have accomplished the only rational solution. i commend my colleague. the distinguished senior senator from new york. for all the work i k he has done on this particular piece of legislation. starting from our hearings before the banking committee and on each phase of this legislation. he has always been present and working toward a proper solution. he has done a yeomans job for his fine city. the city of new york. and it has been a joy to work with him. i commend him.
. i introduce for appropriate reference two bills which amend the securities and exchange act of 1934. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bills and the text of the statements of the securities and exchange commission explaining the bills appear in the record at this point.
. i hope the distinguished senator from utah will withdraw this motion. or this amendment. i was  on the floor. but i heard that the senator had brought it up. we have discussed this at great length in committee. as the senator is well aware. we have discussed it on the floor of the u.s. senate for countless minutes.  hours. but we did discuss it for a long time on the floor. the senator is absolutely correct that the league of cities. which the senator was a very great leader of. is opposed to this. but the senator also ks the govers are strongly in favor of it. the architects. the builders. the planning groups. all in favor of this amendment. i think our distinguished banking chairman has clearly set forth the rule that the locality will have an opportunity to act. and only if they do  act will the federal government promulgate these standards. i think it is also very clear. individual locality or state can afford to adopt a standard if the bill did  move over to the next area. so we do need national standardization if we can get the localities to act in these cases. i hope the senator will consider withdrawing his amendment. we have for a long time tried to get these standards achieved. which i think the senator will agree are necessary. frankly.
. this is  the only legislation i will be offering to help the people of mashpee.  is it the acrosstheboards ecoic solution to the towns problems. indeed there is such ultimate solution short of clearing titles to peoples homes and businesses through settlement of the case. however. we can provide emergency help.  only to homeowners but to small businesses as well. later this week i will be offering a comprehensive emergency loan program to provide working capital to those small businesses whose operations have been virtually suspended because of the land claims. i have been working for several weeks with the members and staff of the senate small business committee. and i believe we will be proposing solutions which will be helpful to small businesses in many sections of the country who currently are ineligible for assistance because their specific problems do  meet the criteria established in the existing emergency or disaster relief programs. however. this mortgage assistance bill is an important first step to providing some help for the people of mashpee. i hope that the distinguished chairman of the committee will find it feasible to accept this amendment. cxxiti----641part 9
. it gives me great pleasure to reintroduce with my colleagues. senator javits and senators bayh. case. gravel. humphrey. schweiker. and williams the equal opportunity enterprise act of 1977. in the year since this bill has been introduced. more and more attention has been focused on the needs. the potential. and the difficulties which miity businesses in this country face. today blacks and other miities own less than 3 percent of the aggregate business community. of these businesses 94 percent are single proprietorships. 84 percent have annual receipts of just $13.000 and fewer than 20 percent have any paid employees. twothirds are concentrated in servicerelated industries. the difficulties ivhich miity businesses face can be overstated. and yet. we must  forget that there are also viable and strong miity businesses which have the capability to produce. to bid competitively. and to participate fairly and equitably in the federal contracting process. these two sectors of the miity community present compelling issues for our attention. they also call for very different responses. on the one hand. we have to strengthen technical assistance. management training and support services which are given by the federal government. in this manner. miity businesses which are small. thinly capitalized and underproductive can be moved more firmly toward .a dynamic and competitive posture. on the other hand. viable miity businesses must have an opportunity to participate more fully in federal contracting. indeed. for many of these miity businesses the federal contracting dollar represents the most ready and accessible market. year after year miity businesses. matter how competent. qualified. or competitive are restricted to less than 1 percent of the federal contract dollar. the causes of this disparity are varied. but this situation can continue to exist. affirmative. consistent and remedial action on behalf of the miity business sector by the congress is long overdue. and i believe that our bill will focus federal efforts in this regard beginning the process of developing an even stronger miity business sector. this bill makes an important organizational change within the small business administration. without doubt. the sba is the most important federal agency to small business persons. also without doubt. its fragmented efforts on behalf of miity small business reflect the inherent difficulties in the total federal effort to increase business opportunities for miities. we have many intraagency initiatives spread out over the entire sba. just as we have many competing offices spread throughout the federal system. this bill would insure continuing sba commitment to improve miity business opportunity by giving legislative stature to the associate administrator for miity small business procurement assistance of the small business administration. heretofore. this office has existed at the behest of executive order  11625. its efforts to enhance opportunities for miities have been blunted. in part. because of this lack of legislative authority. here and . the federal government must accept its ongoing responsibility for increasing miity business expertise. capital. and opportunity. its efforts in this regard. however admirable in the past. will be bolstered by the increased consolidation and coordination of these most important programs to miity business. this comprehensive and realistic bill if enacted will enable many who have suffered political. social. and ecoic hindrance in their efforts to participate more fully in our nations business sector to move closer to the goal of ecoic parity. i believe that the right to work and to profit is a right which should be shared by all americans. yet today. clearly some americans still do  share in proportion to their numbers. hopes. and aspirations. ecoics continue to play a central role in our society.  only in our financial institutions and financial dealings. but also in social and political decisionmaking. miities. will continue to be disadvantaged unless and until they achieve parity. for these reasons. the efforts of miities and. indeed. all socially and ecoically disadvantaged americans to develop expertise. capital. and market will redound  only to their benefit but to the benefit of all americans. and these efforts should be actively supported by all of us.
. i ask unanimous consent that my bill to amend the small business act and the sectionbysection analysis of the bill and a report i have prepared on my efforts to work for the people of mashpee. which i believe it is important for my colleagues in the senate to read and understand. be printed in the record following my remarks.
. i am proud to be the cosponsor of senator haskells bill which in essence opens disaster assistance for small businesses which have previously been denied assistance in spite of the fact that dreadful and surprising events. beyond their control has devastated their commerce. it has long been my belief that we have written all of our current disaster assistance legislation far too rigidly. only certain kinds of natural disasters qualify individuals and businesses for the special and instantaneous assistance which is so often needed in an emergency situation. many cataclysmic events such as. oil spill damage like that which threatened the shores of massachusetts. this winter and devastated parts of the delaware river shores. extreme weather conditions. like the ice that locked new england fishermen into their harbors all winter. or the drought that affected winter resort business in the west and vast numbers of agricultural concerns. or finally. even social and political events like the indian land claims suits in umashpee. mass.. and elsewhere which effectively ended mal ecoic activity in the beleaguered town. all of these. in so far as their effects are evident. are disasters. yet special help has been available to those afflicted. i believethat. although the government can foresee every circumstance. we must write our laws to be so flexible as to provide support to make families and businesses viable again when catastrophe of any kind strikes. in early march i recommended that the small business community move in this direction. senator haskell has been very helpful to me and my staff in designing legislation to provide emergency small business assistance to the town of mashpee as well as to other enterprises in communities suffering similar ecoic injuries. today i am pleased to join him in the major redefinition he proposes of ecoic injury. i believe we can write this law to be sufficiently flexible to cover a variety of circumstances without imposing any undue cost on the american taxpayer. indeed. ecoically injured persons assisted under this act are really being helped as a kind of investment in a continuing healthy ecoy. ]t is my hope that before any further catastrophe affects any town or area the congress of the united states can enact this important change into law. by mr. haskell:
i. too. would like to say to the senator that i am very sympathetic with his cause. we have just acted on an amendment which is consistent with what the senator is trying to do in so far as farms are concerned. regarding money in banking institutions within the inner cities which goes. to the suburbs. and is never used within the cities. the concept is the same. i believe the situations should be treated alike. the senator is saying that money is deposited in the farmers district and is exported elsewhere.
. on may 23 our distinguished colleague from pennsylvania. senator heinz. addressed the 83d annual convention of the pennsylvania bankers association in atlantic city. n.j. in his speech before this prestigious assembly of bankers. senator heinz gave an excellent summation of recent efforts by the senate to enact meaningful and lasting banking reform. this speech emphasized the reasoned and careful approach that he. the banking committee on which we both serve. and the congress as a whole would take in appraising all proposed banking legislation or reforms. senator heinz stated that he believed the congress should consider financial reform as a whole and  simply on a piecemeal basis. he then discussed various specific reform proposals. his discussion of proposed nationwide  accounts. electronic funds transfer systems. regulation q. and the rapid expansion of loans to developing countries manifested an excellent insight into the complexities involved in these issues. in addition. i strongly commend senator heinz remarks to my colleagues who share an interest in revitalizing american neighborhoods and making homeownership accessible to young families. middle income families and others who have been "shut out" by current lending practices. senator heinz ed in his address that american banks should concentrate more on meeting the real credit needs of average americans. this viewpoint fits in with both senator heinz and my interest in legislation to provide housing assistance to young american families. since he joined the senate banking committee in january. senator heinz has proven to be an exceptionally able and dedicated member. we are fortunate to have him on our committee. and i look forward to working with him in the years ahead. i ask unanimous consent that senator heinz speech be printed in the record.
. on october 1. 1976. the day of sine die adjournment of the 94th congress. i introduced s. 3884. titled the federal insurance act of 1976. at that time. i stated that i was introducing the bill so that it would be in the public domain. available for discussion and comment by those who are interested in the future of our insurance industry. the bill was  offered as a definitive piece. but as a working document to be studied and criticized. and i continue to view the concepts which are included in the bill i am introducing today in the same way. since i introduced s. 3884. i have had an opportunity to meet with a number of insurance executives. insurance agents. and some state regulators. and the discussions which i have had with them have led me to modify the provisions of s. 3884. doubt this legislation will be further modified as comments are received on the version of the bill which i introduce today. the bill grew out of my concern about the financial condition of the property casualty insurance business. in 1974 and 1975. property casualty companies experienced the 2 worst years in their history. with combined underwriting losses totaling $7 billion for the 2 years. and there was considerable concern at that time that one or more major insurance companies would be declared insolvent a year ago newspaper headlines were speculating on the possibility of the failure of the government employees insurance co.-geicoand the effect of such a failure on the policyholders of that company. the new york times on june 11 of last year reported thatthe consensus is that the already strained (guaranty fund) pools could  handle the intense claim activity of a geico portfolio. the weakened financial condition of the property casualty industry and the possibility of a major company failure prompted me to consider what steps might be taken to insure protection for policyholders and to improve the quality of regulation for solvency. since last year the outlook for the property casualty industry has improved. preliminary figures for 1976 indicate that underwriting losses have declined to a level of $2.2 billion. and the geico situation appears to have been turned around. but the mere fact that $2.2 billion in underwriting losses can be regraded as an improvement shows how deeply troubled the property casualty industry has been. and still is. of course. i hope that the worst is over and that the industry will make a strong recovery. but the trauma of the last few years has brought home to me the need to improve the protections available to insurance policyholders before the next brush with disaster. the may 25. 1977. issue of the washington post carries a story titled. "how an insolvent firm keeps selling insurance." i am submitting this article for inclusion in the record following the text of the bill which i introduce today. the facts which this article narrates. i believe. provide further evidence of the need to upgrade the quality of solvency regulation in the insurance industry. presently. the policyholder obligations of insurance companies are protected by a system of state insurance guaranty funds which were set up in the late 1960s and early 1970s. after a spate of insurance company bankruptcies left insurance companies without insurance protection. these guaranty funds are designed to provide for the payment of claims against covered individuals when their insurer fails. and since 1969 these funds have disbursed about $104 million in 106 insurance company insolvencies. however. the funds have yet to face the collapse of a major insurer. and most kledgeable observers question their ability to do so. furthermore. while 46 states have guaranty funds to protect against the failure of property casualty companies. only 18 states presently offer guaranty fund protection against a life insurance company insolvency. since each state runs its own guaranty fund. the effort to prevent or control insolvencies is fragmented and ineffective. uniform standards for guaranty status have  been developed by the states. and the prospect of a number of states scrambling to secure control of the assets of a failed insurer to meet policyholder obligations within their jurisdictions does  present a pretty picture. assessments to pay for insolvencies are made after the fact. and they are levied at a time when many companies have troubles of their own. which may be aggravated by the necessity of paying an assessment. thus posing the threat of a domieffect. this threat is somewhat mitigated by the fact that assessments are limited by statute to about 1 percent of a companys premium volume in about half the states and 2 percent in the rest. but this very limitation means that most funds would  be able to deal with a major failure or multiple failures in a timely fashion. where state guaranty funds have been operated on a "preassessment" basis. they have proven to be subject to the whims of the state legislature. new york states fund amassed $240 million through assessments and interest income. however. to help alleviate new york states fiscal crisis. the new york state property and liability insurance security fund switched more than $200 million from bank certificates of deposit and federal government securities into new york state obligations. thus. the new york state fund was illiquid just at the time when it was most likely to be called upon to deal with an insurance company insolvency. these and other weaknesses in our present system for dealing with insurance company insolvencies have convinced me that it would be desirable to create an alternative system of regulation for solvency purposes. the bill which i introduce today would seek to improve the quality of insurance company regulation by providing for an alternative system of federal regulation similar to the federal regulatory alternative presently available to banks and savings and loan associations under what has come to be kn as the "dual banking system." i believe that the existence of such a system of alternative regulation would provide a check against both inadequate regulation and overregulation at either the state level or the federal level. the bill consists of two titles. title i would create a federal insurance guaranty program similar in concept to the federal deposit insurance program available in the banking field. title h provides a federal chartering alternative for insurance companies similar to the federal chartering alternative presently available to banks and savings and loan associations under the dual banking system.
. almost 3 years have passed since i introduced legislation to regulate standby letters of credit and other bank guaranties. during this time. as the amount of guarantytype instruments has continued to grow. the potential for damaging effects on this nations banking system stemming from such practices has increased significantly. when i first addressed problems attending the use of these instruments in august of 1974. the aggregate amount outstanding at the 20 largest banks alone approximately $6.9 billion. in the 3 years which have passed. the amount outstanding has risen to approximately $13 billion. while the amount outstanding nationwide is estimated at $20 billion. indeed. there are estimates that the usage of such instruments will climb in magnitude to $50-$100 billion in the  too distant future. clearly. the growth of such practices has gone unabated. and the attending problems have  been addressed by the banks themselves. the bank regulatory agencies or the congress. chairman proxmire and i introduced legislation similar to my original bill during the 2d session of the 94th congress. and hearings were held on this legislation last year. the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs received wideranging testimony on this bill. following the hearings on this subject. certain technical amendments were received. and considered. and they have been incorporated in the provisions before us today. it is fair to say. however. that the proposed legislation is in essence the bill which served as the basis for the banking committees hearings last year. in my judgment. we must heed the lessons of the past. and foreclose the recurrence of problems which arose in recent years involving this nations banking system. this amendment is designed to address problems similar to those which were involved with the failure of the united states national bank of san diego. and to insure that the future growth of standby letters of credit and other bank guaranties is coupled with reasonable restraints designed to insure the safety and soundness of those commercial banks engaging in such practices. in this regard. i am pleased that chairman proxmire has seen fit to join me in supporting this legislation. i believe that the addition of the amendment to s. 71 will strengthen the bill and will help to promote the safety and soundness of our banking system.
i am concerned over the protection of the banks and finance companies that. you k. are in the business and regulated. over which we have jurisdiction. there are so many problems. a myriad of problems. that we can foresee if your version of the bill is  finally accepted by the congress.
. the banking committee language was extremely detailed as to the topics of study and this amendment is an abbreviated version which will accomplish the same purpose in the same time. i propose that the banking committee send hud its longer version for guidance if and when the bills managers accept this provision. it seems to me that one does  have to share my fears about sanctions to feel the need for some well organized factual material on this matter. and i would hope his amendment will be accepted so we can have an empirical basis for discussion if we need it in the future. i do believe the majority and miity floor managers of this bill have reviewed this and have agreed that a study of this nature would be beneficial. i am hopeful they will accept the amendment.
i would just like to say that the guidelines the senate banking committee adopted are very broad. sometimes we are skeptical when a study has been recommended. neverthless. as the senator said. we just do  k egh about it to mandate it at this time without further study. i think if hud uses those guidelines the senate banking committee adopted. they will be sufficient to cover those areas of concern to the senators committee.
. 25 years ago. the republican party was in the majority in the senate. and senator homer capehart. republican of indiana. was the chairman of the committee that was then called banking and currency. and it was in february of 1953 that chairman capehart appointed a talented young woman from his home state. miss florence barr to serve on the banking committee staff. . senator capehart made many important contributions during his distinguished career in the senate. but i do  think he ever made a wiser decision than hiring florence barr. for the last 25 years. florence has given dedicated service to the banking committee. and those who have worked with herboth committee members and staffwill testify to the unfailing enthusiasm and good humor with which she approaches her job.  only is florence an accomplished secretary. but her kledge of the legislation and issues before our committee makes her a vital information source for staff members and the public as well. her tremendous energy and her willingness to work until the job is done. combined with her style and charm. make her invaluable to the committee. as she looks back over the last 25 years. i am sure that florence has many memories. she has seen senators and staff come and go: present member of the committee or its staff. with the exception of senator sparkman. has served on the banking committee longer than she. but. one expects florence to lose too much time reminiscing. she is too busy with todays job. and we all hope she will be working with the banking committee. if  for the next 25 years. then at least for a good number of them. but today. florence. the majority and the miity. members and staff. join in offering you our warmest congratulations and thanks for 25 years of fine service to the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs.
yes. with mr. millers approval. but as mr. miller pointed out. we are here concerned with one of the nations largest corporations. the 15th largest corporation in the nation. and there are many divisions in this corporation.
on that point. i would say that i think it will be very difficult for the u.s. government to bring into service men of business. and certainly those who are corporate executives who have unique experience. experience that the federal government can well use. that the federal government needs in many instances. if we are going to hold them personally responsible for each and every action of their subordinates. we do  want to limit our federal reserve chairmanships to ecoists or academicians. i think it is probably good that we are bringing in someone from the business community. and we are  going to be able to bring in people from the business community if they are to be held responsible for anything that happens within a large corporate structure such as textron.
. i am introducing amendments to the bills beginning markup by the banking committee which establish consumer protections and responsibilities in electronic fund transfer systems. these amendments address some of the objections to eft consumer legislation raised by financial institutions and others while insuring that basic consumer protections are provided in new electronic banking services. many representatives of the financial industry urge the banking committee to delay action on any eft consumer protections because restrictions will stifle inative competition for customers of new banking services and hinder further development of electronic banking. they further argue that eft systems can increase payment convenience and security for consumers and reduce the cost and time of fund transfers for financial institutions and merchants and. thus. should be allowed to develop in an unrestricted fashion. i agree with this assessment of potential benefits from eft. but also recognize that increasing numbers of fund transfers are made electronically and that consumers must be assured they will  lose the protections  provided in the check and credit card payment systems. i believe the banking committee should proceed to mark up s. 2470 and s. 2546 in order to preserve basic consumer protections as payments shift from check and credit card systems to electronic fund transfers. in several areas where these bills differ. i am proposing compromise amendments to insure that consumer protections are maintained but without imposing unnecessary hindrances on eft services. compromises may be appropriate in other areas which the committee agenda identifies as outstanding issues. my amendments are offered. though. to begin the process of maintaining consumer protections while recognizing legitimate concerns of financial institutions and others involved in providing electronic fund transfer systems.
i thank the senator from wisconsin. the chairman of the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. he is well versed in banking procedures and obviously wants to protect the financial privacy of banks and of individual bank customers. he believes that by the adoption of this amendment we will be doing that and. at the same time.  by any means impeding congress ability to obtain necessary relevant information.
. the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs will hold hearings on friday. june 23. 1978. on legislation designed to restrict the banking activities of bank holding companies. among the issues which will be considered is the desirability of bank holding companies engaging in insurance activities. there has long existed in this country a separation between banking and other forms of commerce. this separation was developed in part because banking organizations. by virtue of their control over credit transactions. are in a position either directly or indirectly to exercise great influence over borrowers in connection with the purchase of banking services. furthermore. the pursuit of banking activities would tend to divert bank resources and efforts away from their principal activitybanking. the bank holding company act of 1956. as amended. provides a regulatory framework designed to restrict bank holding companies to those activities which are "closely related" and a "proper incident" to banking. under this rubric. however. the federal reserve board by regulation has permitted bank holding companies to be involved in the retail property and casualty insurance agency business. whether such activity was within the contemplation of the congress when it enacted the bank holding company act and its subsequent amendments is a matter which has been the subject of considerable litigation. in order to clarify the intent of the congress with respect to bank holding company involvement in the insurance business. i am today introducing a bill to restrict such activities to the sale of credit life and credit accident and health insurance which is directly related to extensions of credit within a bank holding company system. or to the sale of any insurance in a community that has: first. a population  exceeding 5.000 or second. adequate insurance agency facilities. i expect that this legislation will be considered at the banking committees hearings on friday. and i am hopeful that. since similar legislation is under consideration on the house side. we shall be able to enact a bill of this kind before the conclusion of the 95th congress.* by mr. bentsen:
. today we consider h.r. 12426 which. as amended by the banking committee. would provide federal guarantees on up to $1.5 billion of longterm. new york city securities. i personally believe that the bill as reported provides the appropriate amount and type of federal assistance to enable new york city to balance its budget and to regain access to the public credit markets. the banking committee revised and amended the house bill to insure that the interests of the federal government are protected and that federal assistance is accompanied by substantial local efforts designed to assist the city. when this legislation first came before the committee. i raised serious question as to whether we should support any further federal aid to new york city. because i believed. as the banking committees february 1978 report on new york city indicates. that the city could make it financially with additional state aid and increased investments by local pension funds and financial institutions. and i believe that is the position that my distinguished chairman has taken and still takes. however. after lengthy hearings. a consensus developed in the banking committee that limited federal aid is still necessary for new york to avoid financial peril and to regain fiscal autoy. after considering the testimony of mayor koch. gover carey. secretary blumenthal. and the other witnesses who appeared before the committee during our recent hearings. i voted to report the bill we consider today. during the banking committees hearings on the bill. mayor koch outlined the steps he has taken and will take to get the city back on the right financial track. including an ambitious 4year financial plan. we are all well aware of the sacrifices which city residents have had to make during the past few years. especially city workers who have been subjected to layoffs and job losses. with such local efforts and with continuing commitments by the city. the state government. and local financial institutions and pension funds to assist the city. i believe it is clear that limited. federal guarantees can provide a necessary backup to a locally designed and implemented financial plan. unlike the present $2.3 billion federal seasonal loan program. the $1.5 billion in guarantees will  involve direct extensions of credit. guarantees may be drawn down. but they are essentially a contingent liability of the federal government. moreover. secretary blumenthal indicated during the banking committees recent hearings that he does  at the present time expect to issue any more than $1 billion in guarantees. in addition. the federal government will receive guarantee fees from the city which will more than offset the expenses incurred in administering the guarantee program. considering that the city is in much better financial condition  than it was 21/2 years ago and that. under the federal seasonal loan program. it has repaid all of its loans in full and on time. it seems likely that the federal guarantee program will be as successful. my distinguished chairman indicated that the federal government had made money on the short term borrowing act or seasonal loan. and he is absolutely correct. some people do  believe that we did. but it is my recollection of the facts that the federal government has received something like $25 million of interest on the seasonal loan program. do  hold me to that exactly here. but i think it is close to the correct figure.
i find the senators argument. relative to the language in the amendment calling for a study of urban needs.  difficult to accept. certainly. taking out the reference to credit needs strengthens the amendment. at least in my opinion. i would suggest. however. to the senator that. in addition to the secretary of the treasury. that the secretary of hud should be designated as responsible for a study. because i think it is very important that we have the secretary of hud to submit to the congress an analysis of the needs of local governments. i thing the secretary of hud is much better equipped to make such an analysis than the secretary of the* treasury. designating only the secretary of the treasury indicates to me that what the senator is talking about is either a seasonable loan or a guaranteed loan and that he is holding out some hope to those cities that there would be such a guaranteed loan or a seasonal loan. i do  think the senator intended to do that. so. therefore. if we have the secretary of hud to make such a study. it might be very helpful to the senator from connecticut. and i think it would be very helpful to our banking committee.
i thank my distinguished colleague from texas. as my colleague from texas ks. a very distinguished and a ranking miity member of the banking committee. we had exhaustive hearings on this bill. this is  the first time that the bill has come before us. it came before us in a different form several years ago when we acted upon it. and we came out then with a compromise measure which was a seasonal loan. a shortterm borrowing act. it has  served the entire purpose. though the city of new york. as the distinguished senator from new york so eloquently has said. certainly took certain steps which put their house in much better financial shape than it had ever been before. when they had been plagued with very difficult problems. i think that the senator from indiana. as the senator from florida said. performed a great service to the committee. to the senate. to congress. to the city of new york. and to the nation by providing a compromise amendment to the guarantee legislation. first of all. there was a consensus in the banking committee that something had to be done. that there was a need for the city of new york to have some kind of assistance at this time or else  only new york would suffer but the entire nation would suffer. the second consensus that we had in the committee was that there be a form of a guarantee rather than a continuation of the shortterm borrowing act. the house of representatives. as senators very well k. went along with both. but in the senate. and primarily because of the work of the distinguished senator from indiana. we first cut back on the amount from $2 billion to $1.5 billion. and then we restricted the guarantee itself to the city and state pension funds. which i think was a great step forward and which gave the united states of america additional safety and protection. so it was a compromise.  the compromise of a bad bill. as has been suggested. but a compromise born out of necessity. born out of the need to have a bill that would give the support that the city of new york needed to get its financial house in order so that it could go into the credit markets. and that is exactly what we finally ended up with. i therefore understand why the senator from indiana stood up. and i k reluctantly. to oppose this amendment offered by the senator from texas. i would also reluctantly oppose an amendment offered by my friend from texas because i k how strongly he feels on this subject.
 from among government agencies and the general public and to be replaced by directors elected by the borrower cooperatives as the aggregate capital investments of cooperative groups in the cooperative bank increases. the cooperative bank is directed to make loans to cooperatives at market rates of interest and. in order to be assured that the loan will be repaid. only to cooperatives which have or will have a sound financial structure and a continuing demand for their goods or services. in addition. the banks office of selfhelp development and technical assistance. with $75 million in federal funds. would provide capital investment advances and interest subsidies to lowincome cooperatives whose members can contribute egh financial support to capitalize properly their cooperatives. the advances made by the selfhelp office would bear interest and would be repaid as the relevant cooperative achieves financial stability. this office would also provide technical assistance to all cooperatives so that they might establish or increase their level of administrative sophistication. this program is very important to the success of cooperatives which. while having lack of interest or enthusiasm among their members. need members with financial and administrative training and experience to assure the cooperatives sustained vitality. the bill reported by our banking committee provides a lower level of federal funding for the cooperative bank than the level included in the housepassed bill or in the original senate bill. while the amount of federal funding is lower. i believe that it would allow the cooperative bank to achieve stability. serve the credit needs of its borrowers. and provide adequate training and technical assistance to cooperatives. the bill as reported differs from the housepassed bill in certain other respects. for example. the committee bill sets time limit on the existence of the cooperative bank. whereas the house bill sets a 5year limit. and the committee bill provides that handcraft cooperatives are covered. which the house bill did  clearly specify. however. both bills generally conform to the same purpose and scope. with over thirty sponsors in the senate. nine of whom are members of the banking committee. the cooperative bank bill has broad support. however. one concern that many senators have is the impact of the cooperative bank on small businesses. a principal concern is that the federal government. by providing seed capital to the cooperative bank. is providing cooperatives with subsidized loans at the same time that income of cooperatives is virtually free from federal taxation. whereas small businesses competing with such cooperatives have such advantages. as a means of insuring that the interests of small businesses are protected. the cooperative bank bill requires that the cooperative bank. before it makes a loan. must assess the impact of each prospective loan on small businesses in the relevant market area. in addition. the committee voted to amend the housepassed bill in order to provide that a small business representative be appointed as one of the directors of the cooperative bank. i believe the loan criteria and small business director provisions are appropriate safeguards for small businesses and that they will help insure that the cooperative bank. in assisting cooperative organizations. also takes into account the value of small businesses in serving consumer needs. i can assure my colleagues that this bill was thoroughly considered in committee. and i hope that any weakening amendments offered on the floor will be rejected. this is a sound bill and i hope my colleagues will support it.
. the rapid increase in foreign bank activity in the united states during the past few years necessitates that we establish national policies with respect to such activity. the international banking bill will provide uniform standards under which foreign banks may engage in domestic banking activities in a manner comparable to u.s. banking organizations. it is a good bill whose time has come. and i urge my fellow senators to act on it promptly.*
. i would e that the house of representatives is currently considering h.r. 13471. the financial institutions regulatory act of 1978. which is a counterpart to s. 71. the financial institutions supervisory act amendments of 1977. which passed the senate a year ago. i hope that the house will act on this bill before congress adjourns. however. i must e that the house bill contains a number of titles on which neither the senate  the senate banking committee has yet taken final action. these include: 1. titles vi and viichanges in bank control: provide for review of changes in control of a federally supervised bank. bank holding company. or savings and loan by the appropriate financial institutions regulatory agency. senate: bill. hearings. or markup. 2. title viiicorrespondent accounts: prohibits preferential treatment in the granting of loans to insiders where correspondent relationships exist. senate: bill. markup. committee hearings in september 1977 on overdrafts and correspondent banking practices (outgrowth of bert lances bank dealings). 3. title ixdisclosure of material facts: requires every federally supervised bank to file with the appropriate bank regulatory agency annual reports containing a list of major stockholders and executive officers and the aggregate amount of loans to such persons. their affiliated companies. and political or campaign committees which are controlled by or will benefit such persons. senate: bill. hearings. or markup. 4. title xfederal financial institutions examination council: establishes an examination council composed of top officials of the fdic. federal reserve board. the comptroller of the currency. and the national credit union administration. the council would develop uniform standards for examination of financial institutions and improve coordination among the agencies on a variety of supervisory matters. senate: s. 711. federal bank examination council bill. committee hearings on september 16. and 19. 1977. markup session. 5. title xiright to financial privacy: gives individuals ice of and an opportunity to challenge federal government agency requests for their bank records. access to individual bank records would be governed by the procedures provided in this title and would help ensure that the customer ks who is looking at his records. senate: s. 2096. financial privacy bill. committee hearings held on april 18. 20 and may 17. 1978. markup session. 6. title xiiiholding companies: prohibits bank holding companies from selling other than creditrelated life and disability insurance. bank holding companies in communities of less than 5.000 people and holding companies with less than $50 million in assets would be exempt. senate: s. 72. competition in banking bill (restrictions on a holding companys growth and on its insurance and other banking activities). committee hearings on march 7. 8 and june 16. 1978. markup session. s. 3087 and s. 3215. bank holding company insurance activities. hearings or markup sessions. 7. title xivamendments to the national banking laws: repeals the 6 percent dividend limitation on preferred stock offered by national banks and provides the comptroller with various new powers. including the authority to revoke a national banks trust powers. to delegate his statutory powers. and to declare national bank holidays when a gover of a state declares a state bank holiday. senate: bill. hearings. or markup sessions. 8. title xvtermination of closed receivership fund: provides a procedure under which the comptroller may terminate the national bank closed receivership fund which operated prior to the establishment of the fdic in the 1930s. senate: bill. hearings or markup sessions. 9. title xviiregulation simplification: requires the federal financial institutions supervisory agencies to review and streamline their regulations. senate: bill. hearings. or markup sessions. 10. title xviiialternative mortgage instruments: allows federally chartered thrift institutions to offer alternative mortgage instruments in those states which allow them for statechartered institutions. senate: committee oversight hearings regarding alternative mortgage instruments held on october 6 and 7. 1977 and on august 21 and 22. 1978. s. 70. a bill to authorize alternative mortgage instruments. markup sessions. s. con. res. 9. concurrent resolution that the federal home loan bank board should authorize the use of a wide variety of mortgage instruments. markup sessions. s. 2455. a bill to authorize reverse annuity mortgages. markup sessions. 11. title xixprohibition on credit card surcharges: makes permanent the prohibition against charging an extra fee for a consumer who chooses to use a credit card to pay for goods or services. a temporary prohibition enacted 2 years ago on a test basis expires on february 1. 1979. senate: bill. hearings. or markup sessions. many of these titles are. i believe. meritorious. and perhaps they should be accepted in conference with the house. however. i feel that members of the senate banking committee should be given an opportunity to consider them. i would hope that when the committee meets to consider an extension of regulation q authority and the federal reserve membership proposals. members would take the opportunity to express their views on those titles which have  yet been considered by the senate.
. i believe some claims made by both opponents and proponents have overstated the merits or demerits of this bill. it is a bad bill and it is also bad  to have a bill. i have made my difficult choice between two bad options as i believe best. but one voting either for or against this bill can rejoice. should it also pass the house of representatives we will have before us years of difficulties requiring careful monitoring. should it fail to pass. we face months of hammering out a new. hopefully better. proposal. in any event we are far from having established the orderly market in which the new gas supplies we need can be developed.*
. i want to conclude again by commending our distinguished colleague from michigan for introducing his amendment in the senate banking committee. where we tried our very best to persuade our fellow members to go along with it and thus bring it to the floor of the senate. and hopefully have it passed by the u.s. senate. but the fact that it was introduced is important. the fact that we have been given this opportunity by the senator from illis. a distinguished member of our banking committee. and the senator from pennsylvania. aher distinguished member of our committee. to have this colloquy. i think. is important. and i hope that our conferees will be so guided as to meet with the house conferees and take what i hope and pray will be a first step toward eliminating this immoral practice of apartheid in south africa and any other place it occurs on gods earth. i thank my distinguished colleague.
. title iv of s. 3499. the regulation q bill recently reported out of the banking committee. authorizes the establishment of a central liquidity facility to be administered by the national credit union administration. this facility. whose capital will be provided by credit unions themselves. will provide funds to participating credit unions which need funds to meet temporary liquidity demands. during the past several years. the need for a central liquidity facility has been pronced. perhaps the most obvious example of the need for this facility is apparent from the fact that many credit unions are often associated with one employer. if an employer lays off workers or closes a plant. such events can have a disastrous impact on the ability of affected employees to make deposits or loan payments to their credit unions. without some type of national credit facility to tide a credit union over such occurrences. the credit union would be compelled to restrict its activities. or even close. causing substantial hardships to its members. aher. but less well kn. example of the need for a liquidity facility is the student federal credit union located at the university of massachusetts at amherst. the university of massachusetts student federal credit union. which is the only financial institution on the amherst campus. has experienced liquidity problems when the summer months approach. due to students withdrawing funds from their share accounts for use during the summer vacation period. compounding this problem is the signifcant increase in automobile loans made .n late spring to graduates and others who have need for auto transportation in their summer or permanent jobs. the value of the university of massachusetts student credit union is quite evident to its approximately 5.000 members. who receive reasonable loans from it and use the credit unions deposit taking. check cashing. and other financial services. in addition to providing such services to its members. the credit union provides an active and invaluable educational training ground for its student members who have helped manage and operate the credit union. the university of massachusetts credit union and other credit unions which have experienced unusual seasonal or other liquidity problems need a central liquidity facility to help insure their continued vitality. commercial banks have access to the federal reserves discount window for shortterm credit loans. and savings and loan associations may use the credit facilities of the federal home loan banks to satisfy their temporary credit needs. it is time that we provide a comparable opportunity to credit unions which. as selfhelp organizations. have provided lowcost financial services and excellent financial benefits to millions of credit union members. in view of the need for and merit of this legislation. i would urge my fellow senators to accomplish its consideration and passage in an expeditious manner before congress adjourns.*
. i would like to obtain some clarification concerning title ii which would provide a federal chartering alternative for the nations existing mutual savings banks. i would like clarification in three areas. first of all. i would like to k whether federal mutual savings banks will be required by their chartering agency. the federal home loan bank board. to maintain an investment orientation toward housing. my other two concerns involve interpretations of language already contained in the title. as i understand it. the limitation with respect to branching applications of federal mutual savings banks would in way apply to federal savings and loan associations and i want to make certain that my impression is correct. finally. i understand that the board would determine whether or  state antidiscrimination and consumer protection laws are more strict than applicable federal laws and regulations in these two areas and whether the state law would continue to apply to a converting mutual savings bank. and i want to make certain that this includes the responsibility for enforcement of such state laws. in other words. is it true that the board would continue to have sole enforcement authority even though a state law might be stricter.
one final point. i gather that it is only our intention to provide that state law in these areas could apply to state mutual savings banks wishing to convert to federal charter. and that we do  intend to interfere with the bank boards plenary authority over federal savings and loan associations. and in this area. federal law alone would continue to govern.
. as the chairman ks. we have worked long and hard on this banking legislation which contains an extension of regulation q along with other important matters. does our distinguished chairman agree with me that the legislation represents a package and that if the package is  acted upon by the house of representatives. we shall  extend regulation q as a separate matter. and this will mean that regulation q will expire in december and congress will have to address regulation q next year. this is an important question and i wanted to propound it to the distinguished chairman so that the senates position will be perfectly clear to the house of representatives.
there has long existed in this country a separation between banking and other forms of commerce. this separation was developed in part because banking organizations. by virtue of their control over credit transactions. are in a position either directly or indirectly to exercise great influence over borrowers in connection with the purchase of banking services. furthermore. the pursuit of banking activities would tend to divert bank resources and efforts away from their principal activitybanking. the bank holding company act of 1956. as amended. provides a regulatory framework designed to restrict bank holding companies to those activities which are "closely related" and a "proper incident" to banking. under this rubric. however. the federal reserve board. by regulation. has permitted bank holding companies to be involved in the retail property and casualty insurance business. whether such activity was within the contemplation of the congress when it enacted the bank holding company act and its subsequent amendments is a matter which has been the subject of considerable litigation. in order to clarify the intent of the congress with respect to bank holding company involvement in the insurance business. i support the adoption of the amendment proposed by senator durkin. which would specify the types of insurance activities bank holding companies may engage in. the amendment would permit holding companies to sell credit accident and health insurance which is directly related to extenbions of credit within a bank holding company system and would permit general insurance activities in certain limited situations. i believe it is time that we delineate the permissible insurance activities of bank holding companies. and i urge my fellow senators to support senator durkins amendment.*
. i have received today a letter from the gover of massachusetts. hon. robert f. bradford. containing his recommendations in an effort to solve the critical situation in. new england arising from the shortage of fuel oil in that area. one recommendation is as follows: prompt enactment of legislation by congress authorizing oil distributors in massachusetts to pool their information and supplies during this emergency just as they did during the war. without any violation of the antitrust laws. the bill which the massachusetts delegation indicated was pending in congress to enable the members of any industry in an emergency to file a voluntary agreement for joint action and to be protected against the antitrust laws when acting within the scope of the agreement after its acceptance by the federal government. would seem to me to meet the situation. i hope it can be put through as speedily as possible. i would like to ask the chairman of the committee if the provisions of house joint resolution 273 would permit such pooling of information and supplies by oil distributors as recommended by gover bradford.
. i am hopeful the committee. may see fit to accept this amendment. having discussed it with members on both sides. but i just want to explain briefly why i think it is necessary. this.bill contains a substantial appropriation for the federal airport program. i discussed that feature with the assistant administrator for airports. he advised me it would be almost impossible to give the full information as to the building program. but he thought approximately 60 buildings are involved. most of them relatively small. the function of the administrator is solely to determine whether the plans submitted are appropriate and reasonable. i do  think any particular stress has been laid on the wisdom- of conservation of oil. i have also discussed the item covering the boiler at the washington national airport. i am told it is heated paitially by oil and partially by coal. it is intended to provide heat for five new hangars. the work has actually. been completed. there have been changes twice since 1944. largely dependent upon fuel conditions. the authorities do  feel that this would be of any great moment. relatively speaking. while i can agree with them on that. on an overall basis. i still think that when individuals are urged to conserve and when some homes and buildings are actually cold. it is incumbent upon the federal government through its agencies to set the example of conservation. that is exactly what this amendment is intended to do. secondly. for those who may think we are out of the woods on this thing. let me call your attention to the fact that over the last week end. parts of new england had a fall of between 9 and 12 more inches of s. that brought it up to a total of 85.5 inches in the boston area. this is the only winter since 1873 there has been that much s in that area. they had 131 inches in other parts of that state. that was true all over new england. that defihitely is depleting the stocks we have. finally. here is an article that i think is of some moment on this point. it comes from the new york journal of commerce of yesterday and is headlined "easts oil stocks dangerously low." it reads: atlantic coast heatingoil stocks are at dangerously low levels.necessitating continued high prbduction and consumer conservation. the petroleili" regional advisory" committee concluded its report by/saying that consumers must continue to save every possible drop of oil if hardship is to be avoided throughout the remainder of the heating season. . the sole objective of this amendment is to make it necessary for the agencies which contemplate conversions or new installations to come back to our committee and justify it in terms of their ability to obtain the supplies in the face of the depleted supplies for our industries and our homes. i hope the committee may see fit to accept the amendment. it can do harm and it may do a world of good.
i wondered about that. according to the report of the commodity credit corporation. the latest information i have been able to get is through the month of december of last year. this was beginning with june and through december. the corporation report showed they purchased 110.803.320 pounds of peanuts. they do  classify them. of course. as to type. they sold exactly that number of pounds. it also shows that the corporation incurred a net loss for the 6 months period of $6.124.025.92. i would like to have the gentleman enlarge for the record what types of peanuts are in short supply or are anticipated to be in short supply. what general types are clear surplus and have been bought and sold at a substantial loss to the taxpayers of the united states and whether or  this bill will endeavor to prevent this creation of additional surpluses in the types which are in surplus.
. i submit. if you read the committee hearings. you will come to the same conclusion i did. that this corporation simply did  justify its request. and that the committee very properly. in my judgment. reduced it substantially to the extent of $1.100.000. certainly the question arises- why so dire results would come from a saving of an additional $750.000 with apparently protest coming from downtown as to the elimination of $1.100.000 by the committee. could it be that the original request was padded by over a million dollars. i offered the amendment to reduce it an additional $750.000 primarily because i insist that there was adequate justification. until the gentleman from mississippi took the floor this morning and very ably and vary fairly placed the case before the house. i do  k whether it is possible to sustain judgment against the amendment on the basis of what the gentleman offered us this morning. i suspect that the corporation became very much concerned after we acted yesterday. i submit it should be concerned when it is asking this house to appropriate $2.375.000 without making more of an explanation than appears in the hearings. that may be a small amount in terms of what we are asked to do everyday when appropriation bills are considered. but i think the adoption of the amendment should be a warning to this agency and every other agency in this government of ours than in these days. when we are piling a load on the taxpayers of this country which they can hardly stand. they must justify fully their requests before any committee. i have tried to follow the activities of this corporation for over a year. last year this house unanimously passed a bill which would have helped us to liquidate this whole program. as far as edible food commodities are concerned. and some of the losses which this corporation has placed on the taxpayers of this country which are still continuing at a staggering rate. i have taken into consideration in the main such commodities as dried milk and eggs. cheese and butter. up through january of this year. in handling these four commodities they have incurred a loss of $104.327.731.98. when i mention this loss i am  speaking of the other results. although i am fully cognizant that this particular corporation could  have done these things without contributing materially to the high cost of living that everybody is paying. farmers. consumers. and everybody else. i say it is time for us to give a e of sharp warning to this agency that they have to revise their activities. the gentleman from mississippi says that this is a liquidation program. i hope that will be the case. i ask the gentleman from mississippi if this particular corporation is  back in the field  buying hundreds of thousands of pounds of butter. and whether that does  have an effect on the whole situation.
i have  addressed myself at any time. in the last year and a half that i have been studying this. to the storage of basic commodities. i k very little about that phase of the program. it may be fully justified. i have been addressing myself to this insane and indefensible program of buying up millions of pounds of butter. dried milk. cheese. and dried eggs. and other food that might be consumed by people who need them but can afford to buy them. i think the gentleman supported the bill that was passed last year but did  clear the other body. what i would like to say in conclusion is this: i think the committee did a very commendable thing in cutting the request down by $1.100.000. i do  see why the house should  be given an opportunity to go a little bit further in the legislative process.and let that corporation come up to the other body and justify it. if there is any justification. i doubt if there is.
may i say in reply that if this corporation was doing its best to liquidate this program i would ask unanimous consent to withdraw my amendment if i could. but i am convinced that they are  doing it. only this morning my office was able to obtain the report that was filed for february. if they need these employees so much why do they  take care of their business as any ordinary business concern would. here it is the middle of april and we can find out what they did in february. and we will  be able to find out what they are doing this month until june. it is about time we taught some of these agencies that they had better make an effort to carry out the mandate of the gentleman and his committee and of the congress. i think this is one opportunity for us to bear down on them and i think we should. as i stated. the report for the month ending february 28. reached my office this morning. i have made a preliminary analysis of the situation disclosed by that report so far as 10 commodities are concerned. with reference to the quantities and values of these commodities. it shows that there has been a decrease of 3.061.441.497 pounds. and of $231.870.716.75 from june 30. 1950. to february 28. 1951. i am including these figures under the permission granted in the house. first. to have them available in the record of this debate and. second. to make it easier for all of us to follow the course which may be taken by the commodity credit corporation with reference to the alleged intention of dis- next few months. the tabulation is as posing of these commodities during the follows: inventory dollars pounds june 30. 1950 feb. 28. 1951 june 30. 1950 feb. 28. 1951 butter ------------------------------------- 99. 452. 285. 29 13.512.927.08 161. 649. 213 21. 551.045 c heese ------------------- ---------------- 19.706.623.64 2.998.799.06 58. 902.053 8. 613. 331 milk. dried- --- .............. -45.718.460.06 18.409.891.81 362. 931.819 139. 879. 604 eggs. dried ---------------------------------- 103. 290.365. 96 73. 614. 416. 45 93. 918.525 73.842.769 peanuts. shelled --_--------------------------- - e 1.362. 471.38 ----------------- 8.877. 824 rice -------.--------------------------------- 3.019. 321.12 2.654. 763. 91 68. 996. 200 28.988. 200 beans. dry edible --------------------------- 79. 689.881.33 62.980. 217. 83 668.710.200 764.254.200 grain sorghum ------------------------------ 104. 699. 277.02 49.160.146. 91 4. 127. 422. 400 1. 773. 958. .0 peas. dry edible ------------------------------ 3.191.320.56 2.256.405.16 91.225. 900 55. 332. 000 soybeans ------------------------------------- 163. 271.79 10. 049. 53 3.181.020 198.360 total --------------------------------- 458. 930. 806. 77 226.960.090.02 5.936.937.330 2.875.495. 33
the point i had in mind. i would like to leave clear in the record. i am addressing myself to this particular phase of the commodity credit corporation operation. but i did develop hastily. and i hope i can develop it more thoroughly during the debate. the sharp decrease in holdings which the gentleman called to the attention of the committee several times. we have . i think. some 15 items where there is a reduction from some six and a half million pounds from june 30. 1950. to 2.600.000 at the end of march. that is better than a 60percent reduction. i wonder whether the committee was able to get any information as to the amount of reduction which could reflect itself in terms of elimination of storage costs and of personnel supervising the commodities. and so forth.
. in connection with the statement made by the gentleman from ohio as to the proposed amendment. i would like to call your attention to the substance of it. it would direct the attorney general to make a continuing study of the actions taken under the compact to determine whether anything is done inconsistent with the purposes of or contrary to the limitations and restrictions contained in the compact. and to make a report regularly and at least once a year. during the hearings there was testimony from the head of the antitrust division that the department in the nearly 16 years of the existence of the compact had  taken any specific action or made any particular study directed toward the question as to whether or  there had been any violation of article v. there is disposition on the part of the seven members who signed the miity report and others who did  but who join in urging the amendment. to say that there is any evidence whatever of a violation of law. our position arises from the testimony given at the hearings by the head of the antitrust division and specifically from the answer he gave to a question asked by the ranking miity member as to whether there would be any objection to an amendment to accomplish this purpose. mr. morison said: n- sir. i have objection whatever if in the wisdom of the committee and the congress it is desirable. personally i hope that the majority of the committee will. when the amendment is offered. accept it. it seems to me to be a perfectly logical thiing to say to the attorney general. "you have general responsibility. we would like you to take specific responsibility. simply advise us whether there is any violation. and if there is. bring it to our attention." if there is violation. harm is done. if there are violations. it would seem clear that we should want to k the facts.
s disaster fund to the extent of $8 million which has already been transferred from that fund to the secretary of agriculture for present work. the balance of the $32 million will be used mainly to reimburse the commodity credit corporation for shipping in and selling at reduced rates feeds  in the possession of that corporation. and.. in addition. perhaps quantities of hay that will be purchased and sent in at a reduced rate into the area. this particular section of the bill. . is purely a subsidy. i want that understood. the balance of the bill. $110 million. is entirely in the loan area. does that answer the gentlemans question.
the gentleman quoted the chairman of the securities and exchange commission in his testimony before the committee: the commission has had a number of years of experience under regulation a. although less than a year under the regulation in its present form. on the basis of its experience under this regulation. and of the limited but practical safeguards which it provides. and the basic purpose of the exemption. the commission believes on balance that the increase to $500.000 in the permissible amount of the exemption. as proposed in section 6 of the bill. is reasonable.
that is aher overemphasized fear that has been thrown in here. in my judgment. the whole answer to that is proper procedures on the part of the securities and exchange commission. i am  willing to penalize the small business of this country becausb someone may be afraid that there might be some fraud somewhere. there are means of detecting that and protecting against it.
i am sure my colleague does  want to leave the impression that that is true because it is  true in my mind. as i understood the testimony. there are farmers. for instance. who can qualify. there are employees of small business concernsbarbers. professional people. gas station operators. mechanics. carpenters. and any number of people who simply can qualify because the approach is through the group insurance prepayment plan. if we can extend this coverage to those people. and as has been suggested by virtue of the experience that the companies accumulate as voluntary agents. we can find ways of covering those people. or we can find ways of insuring those people in the upper age groups who can be insured . then truly while i do  want to put words into my friends mouth. i think i k him well egh to k that if his good friend. the gentleman from tennessee who has been following this field says that it is an experiment and admits that we will  k the results unless we do experiment. i beg him to go along and vote for this bill.
may i say to the gentleman from new york that i share his concern as to the question of whether or  any compact.  necessarily this particular one but any compact. runs counter to the established policy of congress in the field of mooly and antitrust laws and the like. i want to show at this point in the record what i believe is the best kind of language that could have been devised. and i think this was devised over 20 years ago: it is  the purpose of this compact to authorize the states joining herein to limit the production of oil or gas for the purpose of stabilizing or fixing the price thereof. or create or perpetuate mooly. or to promote regimentation. but is limited to the purpose of conserving oil and gas and preventing the .avoidable waste thereof within reasonable limitations. if that is carried out. i do  believe the gentleman from new york and other gentlemen or i would have anything to worry about. but i am  satisfied it has been carried out yet.
. while i had  felt it would be necessary to support the amendment offered by the gentleman from michigan i think it is entirely meritorious and most important if we are to pass any legislation that is beneficial to fortyfivemilliod people who will be affected by our action this aftern. i felt i would  do so until my good colleague from texas took the floor again to beg us to give the people of texas and the handful of other states who are producing this gas what he called a fair price. as i understand the gentleman from michigan. he is taking this out of the utilities category which the proponents of the bill have stated repeatedly and emphatically this aftern was unfair and improper. the gentleman from michigan is using the same standard that has been used in every case of ratemaking we have had for years and years. what those who will get this windfall want to do is to foist upon us. make us vote for something called a fair market value. what is it. you can find any reasonable definition in the law books. you can find any reasonable definition in the decisions of the courts. it is altogether new and could well be described as a "special interest boobytrap." i suggest that you may wake up tomorrow. if you vote to support this bill and  to support this amendment. to find that what you have voted for is a price in the field which is the highest price that is being charged in that field. that. in effect. is exactly what would happen. it would be an allout bludgeoning of the consumer. moreover. there is in this bill a hidden situation by which these pipeline companies that are so well represented in our galleries today. will find themselves receiving aher giveaway. the attendance has been slim today. that is  the fault of the members who have many other pressing duties in these few hours before adjournment. rather. the whole situation in which we find ourselves is the obvious result of hasty action forced upon the house. i am very. very sorry to find so many of my colleagues on my left supporting what i think they will find before the summer is over being called a giveaway piece of legislation. and very properly so. by our colleagues on the right who ably represent these consumer districts. i wish i could ask the question. but i do  have the time to obtain the answer. so i will simply ask the question and leave it for each of you to look for the answer. when the consumers receive the increased gas bills they will demand a satisfactory answer as to why they have to pay more and more. how much more does the phillips petroleum co. need in order to make a fair profit in the first half of 1955 than $42.575.770 net as against $39.918.000 in the first 6 months of last year. how much more than the $91.871.000 does the gulf oil co. need as against $80.796.000 they received in the last 6 months. how much more does the socony mobil oil co.. inc.. need than the $97 million they received as against the $88 million they received last year. i suggest that the consumers of this country have a right to k the facts from some responsible source. i doubt if they will receive these facts from the federal power commission which apparently does  want to concern itself much with the consumer. i suggest that the committee on interstate and foreign commerce could do that job. if permitted to do so. that the gentleman from arkansas has suggested to the committee on rules and that we ought to do the job or that some special committee ought to do the job. but. if we act this aftern in the haste that has been forced upon us without reason or consideration for the best interests of the members of this house or their constituents. i am quite sure some persons will live to regret it.
may i refer to the question i asked the gentleman. briefly. i have had an opportunity to read the committee report a little further and i see that the committee states flatly that. "the attorney general has expressed concern that these contracts may  be enforceable insofar as availability of rubber for small business users is concerned when the commission ceases to exist. it is the opinion of the committee on armed services that these contracts are enforceable in law by the federal government. but certainly the commitments made by each of the purchasers. including the purchaser of the institute facility. are enforceable through an even stronger enforcement agency. the weight of public opinion."
 eisenhower signed public law 389 on august 14. 1955. he stated in part: .. both the congress and the commissioners of the district of columbia have concluded that the capital transit co.. beginning several years ago and continuing up to the present time. has failed to measure up to its responsibilities in the district. in connection with our action on public law 389. i have been asked whether i have available any tabulation of the earnings and dividends paid by the company. which was in august of last year a matter of serious concern to members of this house. i have been given a table which i  include under permission granted to me. as follows: net djvidends earnings dividends per share reported paid ($100 par to puc basis) 1940 .............. $872.082 $240.000 $1.00 1941 ....---------- 1.299. 969 300.00 1.25 1942 -------------- 1.717.188 420. 000 1.75 1943 ....---------- 1.508. 844 480. 000 2.00 1944 -------------- 1. 534. 020 4801. 00 2.00 1045 -------------- 1.317.0958 480. 000 2.00 194 --------------- 965. 854 48). 000 2.00 1947 ------------- (93. 416) 48. 000 2.00 1948 ............. 396. 310 120. 000 . 50 1949 ------------- 325. 816 48). 000 2.00 150 -------------- 878. 274 720. 000 3.09 1951 -------------- 1. 413. 250 960. 000 4.00 152 -------------- 1. 04. 389 3.744.000 15. 0 1953 --------------- 897. 461 1. 536. 000 i6. 41 { 4. 80 1054 .............. 754.898 1.670.330 p1s 1 2. 14 1955 .............. 2 1.215.353 576.000 2.40 1$1.152.000 cash dividend antd $518.330 in stock of continental enterprises. 2 $524.518 net icome offset by a $1.730.871 streetcar writeoff. as i ed in my miity views to accompany h. r. 8901. louis e. wolfson and his associates obtained control of the capital transit co. in 1949. a number of my colleagues have asked me if members would  be required to vote either to return the charter and franchise to the capital transit co.. basically upon its own terms. or for public ownership. in terms of a washington metropolitan transit authority. the answer to that question is clear beyond any possible dispute. h. r. 10871 specifically authorizes the interimand i underline the word "interimauthority to sell the properties it would take under h. r. 10871 to such competent private operators as it could locate prior to august 15. 1959. this means that the proper government authorities of the district w6uld be charged with the responsibility of continuing their efforts. which have been unsuccessful to this time. to search for and sell to any competent private operator who would then own and manage the transit system of the district. personally i still hope and believe that will be possible in a city where passenger volume is reasonably constant and where a reasonable profit could be expected at fair rates. i cite title iii. section 304. section 304 of that title "terminates the existence of the authority upon the sale of its property." except to take all necessary action to "close out its affairs as expeditiously as possible." it is very important to e also that section 305 of that title requires the board of directors of the interim authority. consisting of the district commissioners. to report to congress within 15 days of june 15. 1958. the steps taken to effectuate such a sale and the reasons for failure to make such a sale. if e is made by june 15. 1958. obviously. upon the receipt of any such report congress then would have full and complete authority to pass any legislation it feels is necessary and proper under the facts reported to it by the interim authority. only if congress did  act upon such report would the permanent authority come into being. in that event the only loss to the people of the district of columbia would be the very doubtful advantage of having had the wolfson group operate its transit system for aher 3 years upon terms far better. from the point of view of that group. than they had when they brought on the cancellation of their charter and franchise by their own conduct. and the best interests of the people of the district of columbia is our responsibility. whether we welcome or dislike this role of a city council.
i thank the gentleman from mississippi. if the commissioners could  make such a sale. title iii of this substitute. i would like to offer. in sections 301. 303. and 305. makes it imperative. makes it an absolute necessity. if they fail to bring about that sale before june 15. 1958. that they come back to congress and make a report to that effect and give the reasons why they failed. congress would thus have a full opportunity to act in terms of what may happen between  and june 15. 1958. i hope they can make a sale to a competent private operator. but they must report back to congress and take its judgment. congress can then do anything it feels is proper and just at that time. if there has been sale. i had  expected to take more than the 3 or 4 minutes the gentleman from illis allotted to me. but something happened about midaftern yesterday that disturbed me greatly. i placed in the record last night under a special order which you will find in the body of the record if you are interested. the text of a letter from . that letter raises more questions than you and i or all the members of the house combined can answer this aftern. i tried to list some of the questions that occurred to me. and there were 10 listed on page 8201 of the record of yesterday. tuesday. may 15. all sorts of problems are raised by that letter. to begin with. who is this unkn banking firm that is mentioned. how are they going to get the assurances that the company says it must have in order to complete this contract. from whom. the district authorities. from the public in washington. from the capital transit employees. how can they do it. the letter says the banking company must have those assurances of cooperation. it is utterly impossible to place them before the house before it must vote on this legislation. i had hoped. i hoped right up to the time this rule was called up for consideration. that it would seem advisable to take this bill off the schedule and to call mr. bell who has written this letter. i make charge whatsoever against mr. bell. i understand he is a fine. outstanding. courageous member of the public here. and i believe that. i simply say it is unfair to ask whatever number of us are on the floor this aftern to pass a considered judgment upon the offer that was made i understand yesterday aftern and which i first learned about at 3:15 or 3:30 yesterday aftern. i do  think a single member will take the floor this aftern and say they k what the details of those conferences have been or what this program is which mr. bell himself said was started last march. we k hing about it. i wish this bill could be taken off the schedule so that the subcommittee could call this witness so that they might be able to tell us what it is all about. lacking that possibility i can offer the substitute i filed only if the committee substitute is voted down. i do  k whether i shall offer a motion to recommit. i understand only one motion is possible. a general motion. time is of the essence and i k that. i will make up my mind about this motion in the next 2 hours.
 of the committee and others who urge this $2 billion extension are entirely right in saying that agriculture is an important. an essential and a vital part of our ecoy. we all want to do everything we can to be of real assistance. but. in my judgment. it is a very poor service to agriculture itself to assume that the taxpayers and the consumers of this country are going to carry this backbreaking burden on indefinitely. if they do  feel that there is a real effort being made to really solve this problem. they can well come in here and demand that all agricultural legislation be wiped off the books. if they do. that will certainly happen. personally. i would regret that development keenly and. consequently. i hope that what i have tried to say may be of some small value in preventing such a result. but it will take a lot more than passive acceptance of the alleged inevitability of this interminable hoarding of unnecessary agricultural surpluses. and i do hope that some few of our colleagues on our committee on agriculture and on our appropriations subcommittee and some persons in a position to take effective action within the commodity credit corporation will recognize what may face them quite starkly if they let this situation continue. a day of reckoning will come if they do and some folks will wish they had done something to avoid it.
 of the civil aeronautics board to tell me what the situation was. on page 13422 of the record of july 18 is a table he furnished. the depreciated cost as of december 31. 1955. of all the aircraft involved was $127.005.000. but the estimated market value was $228.895.000. more than double. pan americans depreciated loss was $79.147.000. the estimated market value was $130.200.000. wonder it wants this bill. the aircraft are being sold all the time. the profits are being realized all the time. yet they want to go into the federal treasury and ask the american taxpayer  just to pay single subsidies but to pay twice. to pay a double subsidy. if i thought this had any effect whatsoever on the equipment proposition. on the modernizing of equipment. which could  be accomplished without further demands on the overburdened taxpayers. i would  be here before you making this statement. some suggestion has .been made that there are some airlines interested in opposing this bill because they are in competition. why should they  be interested. all they want is a decent break without handicaps imposed by unwarranted legislation. that is true. who are those airlines who will  receive one single. solitary dollar or penny out of this bill. american. capital. caribbeanatlantic. delta. eastern. national. thwest. trans world. united. western. american air export & import. the flying tiger line. riddle airlines. and slick airways. i submit we should respect them and their interest in free and fair competition. so you can see that in spite of all the fine and emphatic words presented in favor of this legislation. there is offered a very serious question as to whether we should endorse it at this dying hour of this session. i hope in the very few minutes you have. you can examine the facts. if you can. the decision here tonight will  be in doubt.
earlier in the aftern i raised a mi point with regard to the effect of the bill upon wholesale prices and retail prices. will the senator make clear just how that matter would be handled. i asked a general question as to how it would be handled. and the senator said he would discuss that subject later. when he came to an analysis of the measure. the point i raised was this: it is clear from the evidence that wholesale prices have already considerably advanced in the past several months. retail prices have  correspondingly advanced because the retailers have  yet had to buy in the wholesale market to make their retail sales. that will come about shortly. and the new wholesale prices will necessarily affect retail prices. as i understand. under the bill there is freezing of prices as of a specific date. therefore. the price administrator would have full authority to set the wholesale prices  at their present price level. and then later on would raise the retail prices to reflect in the ceiling that he set the increased costs that would come to retailers over the coming months. but he would  be in any way bound by the bill to keep down the retail prices to the present levels of wholesale prices.
so that we may have clearly in mind the method of operation and make sure that it does  duplicate existing machinery. i understand that the smaller war plants corporation would help to finance small business. but once it has made that arrangement with the small concern it then turns over the loan and the financial transactions to our existing defense plants corporation. and goes ahead and looks for more business to promote small business again.
i think it is quite clear that the appointment of judge meaney as counsel was what was called a limited appointment. under which he was to do the things which the commissioner of banking and insurance or the liquidator required him to do. that is cleat egh from the record. he also stated. in his own prepared statement toward the end of the testimony that he did  initiate any steps. but merely carried out the steps which he was asked to take. in that connection i think it would be helpful at this point to read into the record the information which came to me in the form of a telegram from the office of gover edison. transmitting to me. in his absence. a letter to him from eugene e. agger. the present conmissioner of banking and insurance. it is important in completing the record. for the reason that at the time of the subcommittee hearings this had  been received. much that is set forth in this letter is favorable to judge meaney. but on the question which the senator from illis raised. it clearly points out where. in the opinion of the banking commissioner. the responsibility law for bringing or  bringing suit for recovery of preferences. i shall read the telegram as it came to me over the name of gover edison. it is dated june 29. 1942. and reads as follows: i have just received the following letter from dr. eugene e. agger. commissioner of banking and insurancejune 27. 1942. then quoting the letter: the hoable ciarl2_s edison. gover of the state of new jersey. state house. trenton. n. j. dear gover: commenting. as you request. on the subsequent quotation from senator smathers letter to you. i offer. f ollowing the quotation. a series of remarksin explanation i may say that the senator from new jersey had written to the banking commissioner asking him why. if it was important that the directors and officers be sued. he. himself. did  then proceed to sue them. although he had but recently come into office. i  quote from the letter of the senior senator from new jersey to the banking commissioner. as quoted by the banking commissioner to the gover. the senior senator from new jersey said: failure to proceed against anyone who withdrew his money must first be charged to the policy of the former commissioner of banking and insurance and the liquidator. and is  chargeable to the new ccmmissioner of banking and insurance and the same liquidator. certainly  to  of the federal deposit insurance corporation. a limited contract of employment. namely: "his duty and responsibility will be to perform such services as may be referred to him by the liquidator." continuing  to read from the letter from the present banking commissioner to the gover of the state of new jersey: the determination of the liability of the officers and directors for the withdrawal of moneys immediately preceding the closing of the bank was a legal question which neither commissioner reillyhis predecessor myself.  the liquidator. mr. gray. could as laymen presume to answer. there can be question as to judge meaneys responsibility in this matter. that bears upon the point which the senator from illis raised. i am sure he will recognize that. although a lawyer may be counsel for a client or counsel for an official. there are certainly many circumstances in which the client or the official. in view of.the nature of the case. must rely upon the direction. advice. and counsel of his lawyer in his conduct.
i have doubt that that is the correct procedure. the objection which i think the subcommittee had in mind is based strictly on the fact that under those circumstances steps were  taken by the attorney. who was drawing an especially large salary under the circumstances. to bring about some action of that kind. it was one of those embarrassing things. it was one of those things that needed some extra initiative in connection with it. but the extra initiative did  appear at any time during this whole 3year period. that is the point which i think disturbed the subcommittee. i think that in fairness to judge meaney and also to the senate i should continue with the reading of the telegram and the letter. because the remainder of the letter indicates an added reason why the suits were  brought. i continue to read the telegram. which. in turn. contains a quotation of the letter from eugene e. agger to the gover of new jersey. mr. agger says in this letter: however. a careful reading of the testimony of both mr. graythe liquidatorand myselfhe  being the banking commissionerwill disclose that  only did we  accuse judge meaney of any dereliction in this matter. but that we dodged the question for a very important reason. this reason was that the town of west new york was suing the bank for almost a half million dollars on the allegation that the bank directors. king that the bank was insolvent. had accepted large sums on deposit from the town officials. under these circumstances had the commissioner sued the directors he would have admitted their culpability and west new york would have recovered. let me say parenthetically. for those of us who were members of the committee. that it is my thought that during this 3year period. which is ample time for any investigation. if it appeared that the directors were culpable and that west new york should have recovered. then there should have been some recognition of that situation. rather than the reverse. during that long" period. i continue to read from the letter quoted in the telegram: what the bank could have recovered from the directors had it immediately brought suit would have been only a small fraction of west new yorks claim. hence the decision was originally made by commissioner reilly. on advice of counsel. that any suit that the bank would bring against the directors should await the outcome of the west new york suit. although i. as the new commissioner. became familiar with this aspect of the matter only a day or two before the hearings on judge meaneys ination were annced. i concurred in the decision that had been arrived at by my predecessor. but judge meaney made such explanation. one made any such explanation before the committee. and i am introducing this in order that it may be evaluated for whatever worth it may have. the commissioner then continues in his letter to the gover: my removal of judge meaney from his post as counsel of the liquidation was based solely on what seemed to me excessive payment to him. that does  relate to the $20.000 fee being an excessive payment. but relates to the additional $10.000 to which i will refer in my second point. continuing with the letter quoted in the telegram: this i emphasized in my testimony. it was senator austin who stressed the other matter. and. unfortunately. it has been the alleged negligence of judge meaney that has subsequently been stressed by senators is. van nuys. and other opposition senators. your own opposition to judge meaneys confirmation was based on his hague connection. in my judgment. to clear your side of the possible charges of insincerity. i recommend that you reiterate this basis of your action. and that you say frankly to senator s aathees that you were  responsible for the other charge and that you realized that it was a matter that might well be affected by circumstances and questions which would require time to resolve. respectfully yours. e. e. aggrx. and below aggers signature to the letter appears the name of charles edison. gover. as the signature to the telegram which quoted the letter in full. i have placed this in the record in order that it may be further evidence of the genuineness of the position taken by both mr. agger. the commissioner of banking. and the govers office in transmitting this in the exact form as it is here. i think it is good evidence to show that the gover and the govers office and mr. agger in this matter were attempting to be completely genuine. and to be in way unfair to anyone. nevertheless. i have felt also under obligation to the subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary to place this phase of the controversy before the senate. i feel certain that some. if  all. of those who objected to the failure to bring suit in the first instance might very well still do so. in spite of this additional statement by eugene agger. made to the gover after the close of the subcommittee hearings.
that takes us around the circle again. he. in turn. relies upon counsel to determine whether or  he would bring the suit. i bring this up to indicate the good faith of the gover and the good faith of the banking commissioner and their desire to be perfectly frank. as they have been in this matter. and. at the same time. i wish to point out that members of the committee on the judiciary were influenced by some of these facts which may well outweigh everything else in showing the reason for the delay by even the banking commissioner and his attorney in  taking some clearer stand on recovering the withdrawals made by men who were officers and directors of the bank. i will  cite those in detail. because the senator from nebraska has already done so. i do. however. mention the fact that three directors of the bank. who were also members of the law firm representing the bank. withdrew from the bank. in that 10day period. a total of $31.294. and. in addition. as related interest. withdrew $11.089. there was aher group of three other directors of the bank who also were directors and officers of the provident institution for savings. that group. through that institution. withdrew in those last 10 days $65.400. it must be clear that the officers and directors knew or should have kn. and it would seem clear that they did k. the condition of that bank during that period. the record further shows that during that period of 10 days negotiations were going on for the refinancing of the bank but that they failed. it was in the face of those circumstances that these directors were making their withdrawals.
. responding directly to the question asked by the senator from new jersey. and indirectly by the senator from illis. in order that i may place in the record the statement of the commissioner i shall read from page 64 of the committee hearings from the statement of mr. agger. commissioner of banking and insurance. which bears out the contention with reference to the $10.000. mr. agger said: i came in 3 years afterwardthat is. after the appointment of the counsel to the liquidatorand it seemed to me at the time that in view of the status of the liquidation that was an excessive amountthat meant the $20.000 a yearwith which to burden the liquidation. coupled with aher fact that i felt i wished to prevent at least the repetition of it. namely. that there had been an additional allowance of $10.000 to mr. meaney in connection with something. a case that came before a vice chancelor. i assume it was legal because the vice chancelor permitted it. but it seemed to me it was objectionable from the point of view of my sworn duty as a trustee to protect the ultimate creditors and depositors of that bank. and on page 66 mr. agger says: i felt that it may have been perfectly legal. but i will say frankly it looked like a lawyer on two sides of the issue. because on the one hand there was the issue of these certificate holders and. on the other hand. there was the issue of the liquidation. while i do  presume to criticize it. i felt. from my own point of view. it was the sort of thing i did  want to happen again. under date of june 27 mr. agger wrote to the gover. and the govers office transmitted to us. a wire in which that same point was reaffirmed. in which mr. agger said to the gover: my removal of judge meaney from his post as counsel of the liquidation was based solely on what seemed to me excessive payment to him. this i emphasized in my testimony.
. i concur in what the senator from arizona has just said. but i believe that in order to reach that issue. if we wish to defeat the committee amendment insofar as it relates to future issues of securities by states and municipalities. we should adopt an amendment in the form of that which i have placed on the desk at the recommendation of the legislative counsel. this amendment will come on page 34. line 1. to strike out the provision "before january 1. 1943." so that the section would then exempt income from state and municipal securities without that limitation. my amendment would further strike out beginning on line 23. page 34. all the language down to and including line 16. on page 38. this is the provision to exempt certain refunding issues. which would  be necessary if the other step is taken exempting all issues. the reason for adopting this procedure is simply that there is some language in the first part of section 112 which should probably remain in it in order to take care of the changed situation which has arisen as to taxation of federal securities. i believe my amendment directly raises the issue that we wish to raise without omitting controversial matters. if my amendment to the proposed committee amendment shall be adopted. it will mean that securities issued at any time hereafter or heretofore are still exempt. that. i believe. is the contention of the senator from arizona. i therefore offer my amendment. which is on the desk. and ask that it be stated.
in its entirety. as the senator from louisiana points out. the law  is that such securities are exempt. but the committee amendment is before the senate. the committee amendment provides that only such securities as are issued before january 1. 1943. shall be exempt. therefore. i move to strike out the words "before january 1. 1943." that would keep them all exempt whether issued before or after january 1. 1943. the reason i do  simply oppose the whole committee amendment is that there are other provisions in secti6n 112 which relate to federal securities. and which are  related to this issue.
if they should see that the federal government is taking unto itself. or is being permitted to take unto itself. a new interference with municipal and state securities. they might  have the same confidence in the stability of these bonds they had before. especially in the case of the bonds of the smaller communities. may i emphasize that the villages. and the small communities of 5.000. 10.000. 25.000. or 50.000 people in america which need to issue bonds. issue them in competition with the securities of the whole country. the reason they are able to sell their securities is largely because they have a little something extra to offer. and i do  k why the congress. in the exercise of its judgment seeking to safeguard the development of americas smaller communities. should  continue to give them this natural advantage which they have had for 150 years.
the letter was handed to me by the corporation counsel of the district of columbia as a copy of a letter bearing the signature of thepresident of the board of commissioners. my copy does  have the signature on it. but it was handed to me by: the corporation counsel as being a 6opy of the original letter. which i assumed was signed.
therefore during the year they would have an opportunity to act just as any business corporation would act. but when the end of the year arrives. at which time the ordinary business corporation either declares a dividend or does  declare a dividend. the congress comes in and determines whether they should have the money for the next year. is that correct.
i understand it ran along last year. and that the amount stated in the amendment represents the accumulation. i further understand that unless the amendment is agreed to. the commodity credit corporation will simply be forced to borrow. which will add to its debt. thus increasing the impairment of its capital. instead of clearing it up.
i think there is dispute that the standard oil decision would be overridden if the bill. as the committee recommends it without the kefauver amendment. becomes law. in my opinion. that is a proper result. it seems to me the purpose of the antitrust laws should  be to protect people against legitimate competition made in good faith. that is the view of the members of the trade commission themselves. it is the view of the antitrust division of the department of justice of the united states. and it seems to me it is the sound view for us to take as a matter of ecoic policy.
i thank the -gentleman for his contribution. i think - i am taking more of the time of the committee than my kledge of this subject justifies. but i want to make just a couple of points with reference to the position of the government departments that understand these problems and have to deal with themwhose duty it is to deal with antitrust matters.
there is one point which i believe has been blurred over. it has been suggested that we are deciding whether the secretary of agriculture or the attorney general would have the power to make final decisions in these matters. does  the senator agree with me that that is  an exact way of putting the case. the attorney general can on his own whim make a decision as to whether a cooperative or a business is in violation of the antitrust laws. all he can do is bring the case before the courts of the united states. for the courts to determine whether the laws of the united states passed by congress in regard to moolies or conspiracies restrain trade. and all the rest of it. are being violated. we ought to put this question in better focus. what is proposed is taking away from the courts of the united states the right to pass upon whether the transactions proposed here are in violation of principles established by congress in its wisdom a long time ago and revised and strengthened until 1913. but. i am afraid very much weakened since that time.
i am sorry. does the senator wish me to respond. twenty of the nations outstanding lawyers. supporting the constitutionality of the civil rights bill. on the second page of the mimeographed text which i hold in my hand. stated a number of precedents for the exercise of federal power under the commerce clause in regard to. for example. restaurants in a bus terminal serving travelers in interstate commerce. there is question about that. of course. we do  disagree with the law in respect to local establishments preparing or supplying food for consumption on interstate carriers. the memorandum refers to restraints of trade on the manner or extent of the local exhibition of motion pictures. which is very close to the question which the senator from th carolina raised with the senator from new jersey earlier. there are in the memorandum to which i have referred a number of citations from the u.s. supreme court. all such activities as boxing matches and stage attractions. predicated on the commerce clause. have been subject to federal legislation. the memorandum states: the supporting theory is that the exhibitions. and those who take part in them. move from state to state and the particular restraint would limit the freedom or the volume of interstate transactions. by similar reasoning. the courts have sustained the application of the antitrust laws to retail establishments serving people or selling goods that move in interstate commerce. (united states v. frankfort distilleries. 324 u.s. 293. decided in 1945.)
that is under the antitrust laws. the rationale is that it narrows the markets for products moving in interstate commerce. by discrimination the market for products of establishments in the nature of those which the senator is discussing would be narrowed and as the distinguished lawyers who signed the opinion statedand it seems to me that they make great sensethe federal power under the commerce clause adequately covers the situation.
the whole thrust of these decisions is summed up in a statement in 1961 by the securities exchange commission in cady roberts & co. in this case. the commission asserted. with great cogency. that it was the purpose of the exchange act "to eliminate the idea that the use of inside information for personal advantage was a mal emolument of corporate office." i suggest that the principle asserted by the commission is at least equally applicable to public office. the use of inside information obtained through public office. and the use of the prestige and influence pertaining to public office. for personal advantage is  a "mal emolument" of such public office. did bobby baker. whose highest salary was more than $20.000 a year. make $2 million on his own or was the money gained because of his office and the influence it carried. the question has been answered for us by the rules committee counsel in his finding that baker used "the prestige of his official position for his own private gain." the slightest examination of the committees hearings. inadequate as they are. can leave doubt of the justification for the conclusion in the rules committees recommendations:. the vast amount of information and data discovered and assembled by the committee proves beyond doubt that the performance and activities of robert g. baker. while serving as a high official of the senate. form a pattern of conduct andactivity inimical to the public welfare. or for the statements in the committee counsels report. and  the committee report. including: baker used his public office in the capitol as if it were a private business office. he entertained numerous visitors who were there for private business purposes. from this same office. he communicated with various business associates throughout the united states and even in puerto rico. the available records indicate that some of his personal calls were at government expense. yesterday the senator from delaware pointed out a specific number of those telephone calls and the charges therefor. continuing to read from the report: the volume of business and financial activities of baker was so great and had such ramifications that its magnitude is completely inconsistent with his official duties and responsibilities. again: baker used his acquaintance with numerous individuals and the prestige of his official position to obtain participation in many business ventures. or for the counsels overall conclusion. already mentioned. that baker used "the prestige of his official position for his own private gain." the next step here is. of course. for the attorney general of the united states. surely we can assume he will follow the matter wherever it may lead and whomever it may involve. given the opportunity. i am sure the courts will hold that the influence and power which come to men through the holding of public position is held by them in trust. that it may  be sold or bartered. that it may  be used in any way for personal gain. and that anyone breaching that trust can be held to account and compelled to disgorge every penny of profit. the time has come in the field of public affairs. as it came in the past few decades in the field of private corporate affairs. to put an end to all short cuts to big loot. to easy money. to the fast buck. can there be any surer way of ending wheeling and dealing and influence peddling than by taking the profit out of it. the doctrine that a public officer or employee is liable to pay over to his employing government any profit derived from the use of his official position is. of course. applicable  only to members of congress and its employees. it is equally applicable to all officeholders and employees of all governmentsfederal. state. and local. the vigorous enforcement of this doctrine could open the way to a great cleaning of public life in america at every level. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at the conclusion of my remarks a number of editorials on the subject of bobby baker. which are in addition to the scores of similar editorials that i have previously inserted in the record.
. the executive order prescribing standards of ethical conduct is a step in the right direction. it recognizes the need for more adequate protection against the misuse of public office. even the appearance of abuse of public trust. the prescribed standards do . however. take the place of public disclosure by officers and employees of their financial interests. as the order  stands. it is primarily designed to protect the agency. recently. there was the case of a governmental official who had profited from information available only to corporate insiders. his activity became kn to the agency. but  until it became public kledge did the official submit his resignation. one other aspect of the order is eworthy. it again underlines the double standard practiced by congress. limited though it is. the order has counterpart so far as members of congress and congressional employees are concerned. it points up the need for the bill i recently reintroduceda bill which would require public disclosure for all members of congress and all other persons in the legislative branch. as well as for all in the executive branch. who are policymakers or are in a position to influence policy.
s proposed tax credit suspension and i. therefore. will support an exemption for the small businessman. first and foremost to the small businessman at this time is the problem of offsetting high interest rates. if the administration had  tried to wait until after the ember election even to admit that wartime spending is overheating the ecoy. we would   have interest rates at their highest level in 40 years.  the administration has been forced into halfway admission of the situation. but it has yet to present a comprehensive and realistic program. so it is up to congress to act without the help of the administration. and this situation has emphasized once again the need for a senate committee with legislative power to deal with the problems of the small businessman in this country. the problems of small business are particularly important to the ecoy of my own state of new jersey. which ranks eighth among the states in the number of these enterprises with more than 169.000. the problems of small business. it seems to me. will receive full and prompt consideration only if these problems are dealt with consistently and logically by a single committee that has  only factflnding responsibilities but the authority to consider and report legislation to the full senate. this is in sense a criticism of the work done by the senates select committee on small business. the select committee. and its predecessor committees going back to the opening days of world war ii. has done an invaluable job. in cooperation with the national federation of independent business. of providing information about small business and its problems. repeatedly the select committee has expressed concern about the plight of the small businessman in this country in light of higher interest rates. in the face of increasing concentration of our cxii1625--part 19 industrial giants and in many other areas. the committee has been actively engaged in publicizing the various kinds of unfair competition. such as dual distribution. which have handicapped small business. the committee has been a consistent advocate of greater participation by small business in the various government procurement programs. it has prodded the various government agencies. particularly those in the department of defense. to increase the share of small business in their purchasing programs. this has been a long and hard struggle and the results are still far from satisfactory. and the committee has been a prime watchdog over the small business administration to see that this agency performs the duties which congress intended for it. but the committee lacks the vital authority to propose legislative solutions. if there is any finding that sba is  functioning properly. or if changes in the law could improve the situation. our senate small business committee is powerless to recommend legislation to make the necessary changes. if a small businessman suggests. as one of my constituents recently did. that the government should spend more time educating the small businessman in the intricacies of the law. the committee is powerless to develop legislation to meet this valid criticism. instead. concern is all the present small business committee can express. it is unable to translate its concern into viable legislative proposals. the full effectiveness of the committee is hampered in a very real sense by a provision in the resolution establishing the committee. that provision says: proposed legislation shall be referred to such committee and such committee shall  have power to report by bill or otherwise have legislative jurisdiction. almost 4 years ago. senator prouty and i. among others. sponsored a resolution which sought to give the small business committee the powers denied to it by this provision. when action was taken on the resolution in the past congress. we again introduced it at the beginning of the current congress. it was encouraging when the chairman of the senate committee on rules and administration promised at the end of the past congress that hearings would be held in this congress. etheless. there have been hearings and at this stage of the session it is apparent that e will be held. i want to serve ice  that i intend to press this matter again in the next congress. i am aware of the argument that creation of a standing committee on small business would lead to a demand for other standing committees in the senate. i do  think this is valid. i believe there is a need  only for this standing small business committee but also for several other proposed committees. including a standing committee on veterans affairs and a joint committee on the budget. the budget committee is also of particular interest to small businessmen because it would reduce government waste. we in the senate and our counterparts in the house have accomplished a great deal in the interest of the people in this congress. the problems of small business have been neglected. however. i hope in the next congress we will be able to mount an attack on these problems by creating a committee which will have the legislative authority to deal effectively with them.
the point of the amendment is that we are  trying to hurt .anyone or place anyone in a position of making declarations against interest that would be used against him in other proceedings. therefore. at the suggestion of the senator from delaware. and  upon our own initiative. but willingly. in the case of real estate. we changed the fair market value of whatever it is to assessed value. because the real point is  value so much as the kind of property and location of the property. property. in the case of parcels and real estate. has to be described. if the senator wishes to change this language. fine.
the senator means a dividend in cash on stock held by the senator would be listed as a dividend received. that is correct. however. would the senator continue with his point so that i can be a little more sure of what he intends.
my interpretation is that i would  feel i had met the requirement unless i made full disclosure of the fact that this income came to me or the corporation wholly owned by myself and my wife. the interposition of corporate entity which i wholly own with my wife. and the income. it does  seem to me. would prevent my obligation under this rule to show that i received that income. or that my wife and i received that income.
because. as i have said. in similar cases. involving the securities act and related legislation. this is a quite common requirement and takes e of the fact that the family is generally a financial unit. and that their whole interest is what is significant.
it is my understanding that the ordinary rules of law in regard to the relationship among stockholders. directors. and persons who are under control. or control the corporation. are interfered with by the existing investment company act and. among other things. that interference has taken the form of the wellmeant provisions for the protection of stockholders. which have  worked complete justice and have proved to be other than a protection. as in the case of actions where the affiliated directors have approved transactions and. thereby. prevented recovery. except in the cases of socalled gross abuse of trust or waste.  this is  said in criticism of the men who have held the positions. because they are estimable men. but because of the fact that people who may be independent. nevertheless. do  have the zeal. the drive. or the motivation to go after things of this sort. and who must rely very much upon corporate officers. or corporate employees. for their information. and that the committee has proposed this change in existing rules. is that  correct. i ask the senator from alabama.
i do  think that is quite a fair statement. the introduction of the investment company act. even the committee bill. an effect of ratification by the stockholders and a certain percentage of the independent directors. using the independent directors as a defense. is an interference with the mal business judgment of a company. in most cases. if we have a situation in which a stockholder or any aggrieved person brings suit against the board of directors. he has to prove his case. and that is the situation at common law. and it should be so. except that the law also. either judgemade law or statutory law. in cases of affiliation of trust relationships. requires the trustee to establish the soundness and the fairness of the transaction that he has with his principal. i think that is generally accepted as familiar law. too. in most cases. these are transactionsand i make this on my own statementwhere people are  dealing at arms length. the chairman of the committee is absolutely right. this is  said in any way derogatorily of the individuals concerned. it is just a plain fact. a corporation which is a sponsor of aher corporation which is a mutual fund is  different. even though it may have a number of directors who are  common directors. the control of the mutual company in almost every case is by the affiliated. sponsoring company. which may be a company which sells these shares. which may be a company which sells its investment services or performs other services for it. it is this closeness of relationship that we are trying to work within. considering the facts. even independent directors realize why they are selected by sponsoring companies. they are independent. yes. but they k very well that if they are  reasonable. they are  going to be reappointed at the end of their term. it is perfectly natural that they should be chosen because they are friends. with a trust of the individual already in business. i have never felt that independent directors. except where they are forced into a situation. really could be regarded as independent. except as they force their influence on a miity group. it is with regard to that situation that we are trying to have legislation. i think it is quite reasonable to have a defense suggested by a vote of twothirds of the shareholders of a mutual fund and all of the unaffiliate directors. but only to the extent of shifting the burden of going forward with the evidence and making it necessary for the attacking person to prove the unreasonableness. which is a very difficult thing to do.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the text of my bill. various background documents. and earlier editorial comment on the portuguese and bahrain deals. (there being objection. the bill and material were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:) s. 3447 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that (a) the congress declares that. until the agreements signed by the united states with portugal and bahrain. relating to the use by the united states of military bases in the azores and bahrain have been submitted to the senate as treaties for its advice and consent. assistance to be furnished portugal and bahrain as the result of such agreements should be terminated. and that senate resolution 214. 92d congress. agreed to march 3. 1972. expressed the sense of the senate that such agreements should be so submitted to the senate as treaties. (b) therefore. withstanding any other provision of law. on and after the date of enactment of this act(1) vessel shall be loaned or otherwise made available to portugal. (2) agricultural commodities may be sold to portugal for dollars on credit terms or for foreign currencies under the agricultural trade development and assistance act of 1954. (3) funds may be provided to portugal for educational projects out of amounts made available to the department of defense. (4) excess articles may be provided by any means to portugal. (5) defense articles may be ordered for portugal from the stocks of the department of defense under section 506 of the foreign assistance act of 1961. and (6) the exportimport bank of the united states may  guarantee. insure. extend credit. or participate in any extension of credit. with respect to the purchase or lease of any product by portugal. or any agency or national thereof. or with respect to the purchase or lease of any product by aher foreign country or agency or national thereof if the bank has kledge that the product is to be purchased or leased principally for the use in. or sale or lease to. portugal. until such agreement with portugal is submitted to the senate as a treaty for its advice and consent. (c) withstanding any other provision of law. on and after the date of enactment of this act. funds may be furnished by the united states to bahrain for the use of any such base in bahrain until such agreement with bahrain is submitted to the senate as a treaty for its advice and consent.
. since late 1966. the legal services programs. set up under the auspices of the office of ecoic opportunity. have functioned in new jersey to represent our poorest residents. one of the few tenuous links of communication during the riots of 1967 in newark was the fledgling newark legal services program. the most substantial advances in case law that have improved the lot of tenants in this state were handled by legal services lawyers. some of the most significant process questions in the state were handled by its lawyers. for example. the right to counsel in municipal courts where the possibility of incarceration existed was established by legal service lawyers. year in and year out. over 50.000 clients annually are represented in the state of new jersey by approximately 130 attorneys in 13 programs. overworked and poorly paid. they have maintained their morale despite the uncertain future that has faced the legal services program for the last 2 years. the clients they serve have here else to go. the legal services program was designed  only to assure that the poor had access to an attorney. but to assure that the type of services provided the poor were of the same quality as those available to citizens able to afford an attorney. those who worked within oeo to set up the program realized early that the local legal services attorney was in vital need of backup assistance. sometimes this was because of inexperience but all too often it was because of the shortage of resources and manpower necessary to keep current with legislative. administrative. and case law developments relevant to the poor. unfortunately. local legal services programs are also severely understaffed and plagued with huge caseloads. backup assistancesuch as training of new attorneys. continuing legal education in new developing fields. and specialized research on complex legal problems or the complex federal programs so vitally affecting the poorwas believed vital and was provided through national programs often affiliated with law schools. the legislation we are approving today alters the delivery of this backup assistance and research by eliminating the corporations authority to provide such services through grantees or contractees. it is the intent of this legislation. however. that all such backup services continue. background research and analysis in poverty law specialties. training of attorneys or paraprofessionals. technical assistance in the delivery of legal assistance activities. all of these are to be carried on by the corporation. program providing legal assistance to clients whether serving local. state. or wider geographic areas can function without these backup services. we expect these services to continue while the corporation determines how best to provide them and we expect the corporation to evaluate carefully the best approach to use to assure their most effective and efficient delivery. the capacity to provide such backup assistance was developed throughout the history of the legal services program and after experimentation with various approaches. the corporation can overlook this experience. it may be. for example. that the corporation need  create an entire new staff to provide backup. a centralized office in washington is  the only alternative open and use of the present regional office structure may allow the corporation to take advantage of the expertise of legal services attorneys presently involved in providing backup services. the transition from grantees or contractees to a more directly controlled operation should be orderly and will take time to assure selecting and training personnel of competence and experience. it will  be necessary to precipitously dissipate the expertise and experience built up during the many years the oeo program was in effect. hing in this legislation is designed to limit the corporations authority to fund legal services program designed to provide legal assistance to eligible clients. litigation. legislative and administrative representation. and appellate practice on behalf of eligible client and client groups remain. programs providing such legal assistance must be able to research their own cases. train their own lawyers. coordinate with other programs. and function like law offices in the private sector. neither does this legislation alter the authority of the corporation to fund programs serving specific client groups or with the capacity to carry on complex litigation or administrative representation on behalf of eligible clients at the state or national levels. section 1006(a) (1) provides the corporation with authorization language to assure funding of these legal assistance programs. let me reiterate again. that programs providing legal assistance under section 1006(a) (1) whether operating on a local. state or national level. will be substantially reduced and undermined if backup services. for example. research on complex legal problems. training. and technical assistance are  provided fully and effectively by the corporation. we intend these support services to continue.
that we are  going to get. that is true. there is argument with the senator. or between us. on the question of costs of our withdrawal in respect of retirement pay. there is question about these arguments. i do object. and i am sure the senator would  disagree with me on this. to accumulating depreciation and saying that we are paying $440 million over the next 20 years. or some such figure as that. on property that everybody admits we are giving away right . . you can say we should  give away the panama canal to panama. that is one single point. that is. to do that. except for these costs of operating the transfer. there is argument between the senator and me. we are either giving away something that has a depreciated value of some $600 million or something that has a present market value of $5 billion to $6 billion.
i understand that hearings have since been scheduled for the full banking. housing. and urban affairs committee. chaired by senator proxmire. this committee. which has jurisdiction over export controls. is to begin those hearings september 21. . i cite these incidents  to rake over soancient history but to point out that there is a need to improve the review procedures for exports of items and equipment which have a direct or indirect military use. it may be that there are reasons for letting most of the proposed sales go through. but there are times when our national interests are best served by stopping or delaying such sales. these decisions are  always clearcut and seldom are easy. but it is important that the decisionmaking process be thorough and that all the various sections of the government which should be involved in the process are fully consulted. in the most recent case. that of the sophisticated drill bits. i and many of my colleagues believe that this is  the time to go ahead with the sale. the decision to go ahead was disturbing. but equally disturbing was the way it was handled. i am glad. therefore. that the matter of review procedures will be taken up by the senate banking committee. it is important. too. that the committees on foreign relations and banking continue efforts to improve those procedures.*
is it  a fact that the committee amendment just read by the gentleman is the only practical amendment. because if you try to apply the marketprice formula to overseas purchases you just will be unable to buy overseas. due to the difficulty of ascertaining overseas market prices on the commodities involved.
. i rise in opposition to the anderson amendment. the crawford amendment to the anderson amendment. and all similar amendinents. and i address my remarks in this opposition to the friends of the bill.  to the people who are going to vote against it. but to those who intend to vote for it and want to keep it as an integrated whole. what has happened. we  have prunes. peanuts. cottonseed. and if you open this pandoras box you will have 20 other specialinterest amendments logrolling in this bill as if it were an oldtime tariff measure. we have adopted an amendment previously which permits the commodity credit corporation to sell its surplus commodities. as an exception to the prevailing marketprice provision which is  in the bill. that covers every surplus commodity which the commodity credit corporation has. if we try to dig into all of these specialinterest propositions. we are going to load this bill down so that it will be incapable of doing the job for which it is designed.
some questions have been raised about interlineations in the amendment which is on the clerks desk. the interlineations are three. first. an amendment to the national banking act. which will permit national banks to deal in housingauthority bonds.
second. the adoption of the formula of the other body which established dollar cost limits on publichousing construction. and third. the adoption of the exact number of units. 810.000.  in the bill passed by the other body. plus the same financial requirements. i think it should be pointed out to the committee of the whole that the financial requirement of $308.000.000 which is contained in this bill is the maximum allowable annual payment and represents a reduction of some $12.000.000 from the original amount as proposed by our amendment. the difference in the amount is attributable to reduced estimates of construction costs. and the amendment respecting the national banking act which will result in broadening the market for housingauthority bonds and in resultant interest savings as they are underwritten locally.
the banks funds essentially were created to be loaned to whoever could make the best use of them. and the bank. under its charter. could lend accordingly. the fund was created after arrangements with the government.
 truman has ed that an increase of a few percent in the standard of living of the peoples of asia who constitute about 50 percent of the population of the earth could keep the united states busy for 100 years and could step up our national income to $300.000.000.000 a year. as world recovery requires  only money but khow and as united states private business has vast resources of khow a partnership of the united states government and the united states private business for overseas ecoic development is indicated. to provide the means for investment on the scale required by world recovery and development of the ecoically underdeveloped countries adequate to form the needed basis for world ecoic prosperity. a single international financing organization is required such as a great. new ecoic development corporation financed by the united states government in a magnitude proportioned to the business to be done. we must be thinking in terms of initial capital in the magnitude of $10.000.000.an ecoic development corporation would function very much like the reconstruction finance corporation in extending loans on mortgages. or otherwise. to prospective investord and de.velopers abroad. and in acquiring securities from such investors or developers. in effect creating a governmnentbusiness partnership. such companies should also be participated in by governments or individuals in the areas where ecoic development work is to be undertaken. cooperation with participating countries would be likely to determine the success or failure of the whole program and there we should adopt the procedure so successfully worked out in connection with the european recovery program. we should bring about the establishment of regional organizations of participating countries like the organization of european ecoic cooperation of the 19 countries participating in the erp. which can advise with us on overall plans for particular regions with similar ecoic. social. and political interests. from this would logically follow the negotiation of agreements or treaties giving fair protection for and preventing discrimination against investments by united states nationals and the new ecoic development corporation in such areas. the work of the international bank and the monetary fund to help members to get their internal financial and ecoic affairs in order would continue. investment or loans by the ecoic development corporation would go far to quieting the fears of american businessmen that the united states government would leave them adrift at some point after encouraging them to undertake broadscale ventures for overseas ecoic development. added to the vast ecoic recovery programs for free peoples we must also have a political and ideological appeal. in this way we are brought to the eventuality of world federation reaching across all barriers. extending also to the people of the soviet union and its satellites and offering them a place with all the other peoples of the world with commonly assured guaranties of commonly accepted world law and world controls. -which should quiet their fears of american domination of the united nations. while we strive to carry out a program of investment and recovery we must in parallel strive to carry forward the movement for world federation as the ultimate answer to a question which may well  prove capable of final settlement on ecoic grounds alone but may require that political capstone which can be found in world federation.
the amendment which has been called the vorys amendment. the reason i opposed it in committee and the reason i oppose it . and i hope the house will strike it out and then work its will..is this: if we permit the commodity credit corporation to do this buying. then they are buying at 90 percent of parity. or whatever the high farm parity prices provide. and hence the agricultural prices are therefore further maintained. however. if eca goes into the open market and buys. it buys at what i call flexible parity. market price. and hence the farm prices are permitted. to the extent of that $1.000.000.000. to seek their mal level. and that benefits the city dwellers. if it could be said that this billion dollars in surplus is being taken out of commodity credit corporation stores. i point out that all it does is pile it up in the farmers warehouses. and the commodity credit corporation goes out and acquires it. so that i do  think that is any valid argument at all. hence i believe that in the interest of the city dweller this should be stricken. and the house should work its will. whatever that may be.
just to pin point the argument. my argument is  what the ccc will sell it for to the ecathe gentleman is right about thatthey will sell them at the marketmy argument is *what the commodity credit corporation must go out in the open market and buy these surpluses at. n6 doubt they must buy them at  less than 90 percent of parity. that is my point. therefore. i say it has a tendency to keep the prices high instead of as under the eca buying. which has a tendency to keep the prices lower.
. i think the debate on the vorys amendment has been sufficiently comprehensive so that the members understand clearly what the issues are. and i would just like to restate them by way of summary. the issues. as i see them. are  whether the commodity credit corporation shall be entitled to pile up surpluses or . for the commodity credit corporation will indeed. under the farm product parity price law as it stands. have to go out and buy any farm surpluses in the covered commodities that the eca does  acquire. the issue is simply whether the acquisition shall be through the commodity credit corporation or whether the acquisition shall be directly. in the open market by eca. and i think that for this once the city dwellers and the farmers are of one mind. as to the question posed by my colleague. the gzntleman from wisconsin [mr. smithi. with respect to the cut of $500.000.000. i think that is a much fairer way to get at the issue as to whether or  this amount should or should  be cut. but i believe that the amount should  be cut. and i am opposed to the cut at this time for this reason. if the members will look at page 33 of the report they will find after screening through the organization of european ecoic cooperation. and through the offices of mr. harriman in paris. and through mr. paul hoffman in this country. the amount arrived at is $2.925.000.000. and that is a reduction from the amount which was appropriated last year by about 25 percent: also. there is a carryover this year. in other words. eca is  just an agency that is spending its money. but it has a carryover. the whole thing involved in this cut is a vote of confidence in mr. paul hoffman. and that is what i would like to impress on the members. he is doing a very outstanding job in this whole program. and i think we owe him a vote of confidence in this appropriation when he has come in with a 25percent cut. and when he has worked for a carryover of approximately $150.000.000.
is it  a fact that in most rawmaterial contracts with manufacturers the price is left open. it is to be the market price. that is true of rubber and it is true of wool. those are exactly the commodities which have put the squeeze on the situation as far as the manufacturers are concerned to whom i think the gentleman is referring.
this is one of the basic commodities. a 90 percent of parity commodity. is it  a fact that there is a very sharp restriction on the price at which the commodity credit corporation may sell these peanuts. there is a provision in the law that states the commodity credit corporation can sell these peanuts at anything it wants to. the gentleman ks that much better than i do.. i am sure.
has the committee given any thought to letting the commodity credit corporation unload its surplus for whatever it can get for it. rather than holding it under the law which says it can sell it at less than it paid plus 5 percent. i believe.
i will do my best. i refer to the letter from the acting secretary of bhe department of agriculture dated february 19. on the top of page 7 of the committee report you find the following statement: although the major portion of this increase would be in states producing virginia- and valenciatype peanuts. there would also be some increase in allotments for other states producing primarily runner- and spanishtype peanuts. the department has objection to the increase which would be brought about in allotments for states producing primarily virginia or valencia types. in fact. further increases for these states would be desirable. on the other hand. the department objects to increasing allotments for those states producing principally runner and spanish types. since such increase will tend to further increase the quantity of peanuts to be acquired by the commodity credit corporation and which ordinarily will have to be disposed of at a loss to the corporation.
 the answer is obviously " because the objection is they are extending this program on the acreage to spanishtype peanuts. which are in emous supply and which the commodity credit corporation is stuck with. which is just the question that they could  answer to me a little while ago.
exactly. may i point out to my distinguished colleague from ohio that we went to the trouble of calling in the united states agricultural attachd in india. clifford c. taylor. we were tremendously impressed with him. mr. taylor advised us that the rationing system in india was excellent and he proved it in the following way. and this appears at page 37 of the hearings. he said that at one time just to test their rationing system india took off rationing in 1947. thinking if there were any hoarded stocks they would come out in an open market. hing more came out. apparently the rationing system was so good that it was reaching all of the available stocks in the country. as to distribution within the country. mr. taylor testified that he had checked the distribution system in the areas of the country in which it functioned. it covers either in full or in part 125.000.000 people. he was able to vouch to us for the fact that was equitable distribution and that it did fully the job we had a right to expect and that the people would get the grain.
i wish to compliment the gentleman from texas and the gentleman from indiana. i heard them testify before the committee on banking and currency. they did a magnificient job. i have read the legislation very carefully and i would like to ask one question about a matter which troubles me. and see if the gentleman does  think it needs to be amended in respect of the provision dealing with the terms of the contract or the terms offered by the government procurement officer. it seems to me that that runs afoul of the point that small business does  want the government necessarily to overpay it because it is small business. it is perfectly willing to take the business on a competitive basis. but it wants a fair chance to get the business. you have provided. and i think very wisely. for technical help. for finance. even for the acquisition of property and plant. this provision to which i refer is i think the only really vulnerable part of the whole plan. does . the gentleman think it would be sufficient if it were worded to state that the administrator of the corporation shall certify that the terms which are offered by the smaller war plants corporation or the group for which it is an agent are less favorable to the government than the government could otherwise obtain. in other words. i am willing to leave it to the administrator himself.
i do  object to the compulsory feature just so long as the corporation certifies it is  getting that contract on terms more favorable than the united states could otherwise obtain. that is. as to prices and so forth. that is the point i am interested in. is there any objection to that.
is  what the gentleman from th carolina said getting down to this. that if the slaughterer is  licensed then if he sells on the black market he is guilty of only one crime. he has sold on the black market and broken the price ceiling. but on the other hand. if he has to be licensed he is guilty of two violations. he is doing it without a license and he is also selling over the ceiling price. therefore. are we in the cities better off to have him licensed.
. together with my colleague from new jersey and my colleague from texas i am interested in the appropriation for the small defense plants administration. i am convinced that the house should put these appropriation facts into the bill. and i take this time only to give certain facts to the house as i believe the situation has  been very clearly put forward here and understood. it was our intention in authorizing this new small defense plants administration to provide an agency which would have more effectiveness and. indeed. more resources than did the office of small business in the npa in the department of commerce. therefore. all of the arguments that the small defense plants administration which we authorized has  yet taken over all the functions of the other agencies it seems to me misses the main point. it was our desire to have a new agency which would have financing and which would have the capability for doing the job. mr. telford taylor. a very distinguished lawyer who was our chief counsel at the nuremberg trials. and who is the head of this new organization. testifiedhearings. page 460: all the responsibilities on procurement and finance have been transferred from the office of small business of npa to the small defense plants administration under the executive order. my understanding is that the size of the office of small business over there is  about onethird of its former size. in other words. in the last 5 months this new agency has been in the process of accomplishing exactly what the congress intended it should accomplish. but this move being proposed today is to cut it off aborning. that certainly runs counter to the unanimous desire expressed by this house. in addition to the personal convictions of practically every smallbusiness man in the country. it seems to me shocking that we would take that 5 months experience in the transitional phase and say. "this is the final experience. this shows the two are in business together. therefore. let us eliminate one. but which one.  the formerthe office of small business of npa the latterthe small defense plants administrationwhich we ourselves decided we needed to organize to assist small business in this country to participate in the defense effort.
. the two members of the house who had the most to do with putting through the provision for the small defense plants administration were the gentleman from indiana and the gentleman from texas . this is therefore distinctly a matter  based upon partisanship. as has been shown by that joint sponsorship and by the debate. it is based upon social philosophy and the social philosophy is this: will you give subsidies to small business when small business gets in trouble. or will you give small business the opportunity to get advice. technical guidance. and marketing. facilities. in all of which every study of small business has shown that it falls short. will you give small business that opportunity through this small defense plants administration and through this very modest sum of money. that is the fundamental social question facing us. the fault i find with the amendment of my very good friend. the gentleman from new hampshire . who had such a great victory yesterday. is that it proposes to continue the small defense plants administration only to the extent that it has been operating today. which has given the very opening for saying that there is duplication. it has perhaps been unable to take over fast egh the functions of the other agencies operating in the field. well. if we vote down the fogarty amendment and we vote up the cotton amendment. all we are doing is bolstering the opposition based on the alleged duplication. let us decide it decisively on the fundamental question of social philosophy. pass the fogarty amendment and show that we k how to deal with the smallbusiness problem in the defense mobilization period.
. we have  pinpointed exactly what we are talking about and why we need this particular amendment for $10.000.000 in addition to the amendment that we carried yesterday in the committee of the whole. and i would like to confine my statement to the need for this particular amendment. yesterday we decided that this agency would continue. and that it would then be able to give the technical assistance and marketing facilities which small business lacks. let me emphasize that: technical assistance. which is engineering and similar advice. and marketing facilities which means keeping in touch with the governmental procurement agencies and means to complete the procedural requirements those agencies have. there are still other problems besetting small business. one is the problem of conversion to defense and even changing plants and changing methods. for this purpose we have provided $100.000.000 to the rfc which can use this money for this purpose on recommendation of the small defense plants administration. that still leaves one area which is completely uncared for. that is the situation in which in order to get a contract it is necessary to pool the activities of many smaller business concerns. and it is this last area which we are dealing with today. the idea is to provide a $10.000.000 revolving fund. it will enable the small defense plants administration to get together a group of smallbusiness men to go into this pool and have the necessary financing for that purpose. that is exactly what the smaller war plants corporation did in these 12 transactions during world war ii which have been referred to by the gentleman from rhode island . we are all very worried about how small business fits into the defense effort because small business is an appreciable part of the defense effort of the united states. i have copied off the news board outside here. and every member should go and see it. a statement made this morning in some kind of a congressional hearing by james f. king. deputy administrator of the defense production administration for resources expansion and he is quoted in eight very meaningful words: all defense programs tend to favor big business. of course. it is very hdrd to get planes. ships and tanks made by small companies. yet the social structure of the country demands that small business be fitted into the defense effort. those who favor this amendment and the amendment which preceded it come before you with a plan and program for small business in the defense effort. consisting of technical aid. marketing facilities. the opportunity to get loans for reconversion from the rfc. and  this very necessary amendment. the opportunity to finance a pooling of small concerns in order to get an order.
but it is  also a fact that small business is falling by the wayside in many cities of the country. which is why members like the gentleman from colorado . the gentleman from connecticut . and gentlemen from other cities and states are here arguing for this ameni ient.
. i wish to call to the attention of the house that i intend to introduce a solution to represent this middle ground. about which my colleague the gentleman from illis spoke. i shall offer an amendment. which will provide that a fairtrade pricing scheme under either billmcguire or keoghcan be put into effect unless there is competition between items sought to be fairtrade priced under these bills and similar items which are  fairtrade priced whether or  they carry a brand name. my amendment would completely open up the field of competition. therefore. so that the consumer who does  want to pay say 50 cents for a certain brand of tooth paste which is under the fairtrade law. can buy aher tooth paste which is  subject to fairtrade pricing. otherwise the first tooth paste can be priced under the fairtrade law. it seems to me that protects the consumer and takes care of the difficulties of the independent retailers. they claim fairtrade laws are necessary in order to maintain their overall business position which is their fundamental reason for these bills. the responsibility will be on the manufacturer who wants to set up his branded product on a fairtradeprice basis to be sure that there is competition from similar fairtraded items. otherwise the exemption from the antitrust laws contained in these bills does  apply to him. that is  an onerous burden because he is doing all his business subject to the antitrust laws right . the text of my amendment follows: to h. r. 5767 : page 4. line 24. after the word "others". insert "and  subject to contracts or agreements prescribing minimum or stipulated prices as aforesaid." to h. r. 6925 : page 2. line 13. after the word "others". insert "and  subject to any contract or agreement prescribing minimum prices as aforesaid."
the bill  provides that anyone who proposes to establish or stipulate a fairtrade price is to be exempted from the antitrust laws. and i quote: if the particular item is in free and open competition with commodities of the same general class produced or distributed by others. otherwise. the person who seeks to establish a fairtrade price under this bill is  exempted from the federal antitrust laws. we are. therefore. already giving limited exemption only. to wit. that the manufacturer or distributor must make up his mind that there are other items in competition with the item which he expects to submit to fairtrade law pricing. what my amendment does is add to this limitation. it says. in effect. "you shall  be exempt from the antitrust laws unless the items which are in competition with the items which you expect to price under the mcguire bill are items which are fairtrade priced." it was made clear a while ago that what is contemplated in this bill is that the item sought to be fairtrade priced shall be in competition with other items which are also fairtrade priced. the consumer is. therefore. in this position: his range of choice is only in buylng among a group of items. all of which can be. and in most cases are. priced under the fairtrade laws. so that if he wants to buy toothpaste. if he is going to buy any standard brand. he must pay for some item which is priced under the fairtrade law. under my amendment the manufacturer or distributor of toothpaste could fairtrade price his item only if in the toothpaste market generally there were fairtrade priced items in competition with his item.
my time is limited but will do so if i can get a few minutes more time and the gentleman will then renew his request. the specific point i would like to make is this: the only arguments that can be made against what i am here proposing are. "let us leave this bill unamended. it is sacrosanct." we k that is  so. or. "let us  change anything which is contained in any state law." and the point will be made. as the gentleman from arkansas just made it. that this bill repeats words which are in most of the state fairtrade laws. but we are  dealing with words. we are dealing with substance. the substance is this: the state fairtrade laws generally exempt the seller in the state from the state antitrust law. if there is one. this bill is an effort to exempt sellers on an interstate basis from the federal antitrust laws. by my amendment we place on a further limitation of our own on that already in the bill itself. upon the exercise of that option to fairtrade price his item. which gives a particlular seller the exemption from the federal antitrust laws. i say we should add to the limitation already in the bill the necessary provision which will protect consumers and quiet their fears that they will have range of purchase in a particular item. except among commodities all of which are fairtrade priced. by introducing the competition of fairtrade priced items. we say to the consumer: "if you want to buy any national brand of toothpaste and you want to pay for it. that is your privilege. but you do  have to." we say to them. "there is a toothpaste you can buy which is  fairtrade priced." i submit this amendment is very important. it goes to the heart of what consumers have been disquieted about in respect to this bill. and if adopted will give the independent retailer everything he wants. which is protection for his overall business position. and at the same time will protect the consumers.
according to the data i have the 7/-inch low middling sold on the spot market at roughly 20 cents a pound on may 27. 1952. under the gentlemans bill the proposed loan rate would have been something like 3 cents in excess of that. is that correct.
is it  a fact that the mutual security act. and the marshall plan act before it. provides that these products should  be turned over by the commodity credit corporation except at the prices which it paid for them. or better. and therefore that is a writtenin recoupment of any loss which it might have suffered. because it gets it out of these other appropriated funds.
. what the house is trying to effect in this bill is to give egh latitude so that small truckers can compete with the large concerns in an effective way. and it is my position to proceed in support of the bill in pursuance of this principle. we have here an opportunity to aid small business in the vast trucking industry.
is it true. and that is the information. i have. that the $8.5 million proposed increase of the commodity credit corporation authorized borrowing power. meaning $1.750.000.000 in addition. is expected to be entirely utilized in connection with this years 1954. crops. and that that is the estimate of the department of agriculture. mr. h. carl andersen. the gentlemen does  mean a $8.5 million increase. he means $8.5 million total authorization.
. following is a statement issued by the national milk producers federation. it shows what i have always contended. that many farm producers realize the dangers to them of the surpluses piled up under the high fixed farm price parity program. consumption of butter has fallen 50 percent in a decade. it is gratifying to see that this organization of producers at least recognizes how consumers may be induced to reverse this trend. the statemgnt follows: to aid in the disposal of governmentheld surpluses of dairy products and to give american consumers the benefit of lowerpriced butter. the national milk producers federation recommends that the department of agriculture take immediate steps to offer its stocks of surplus butter to commercial butter packagers at prices below the support level. this would permit an averaging of the price of butter  sold commercially with the price set on the government stocks. the result would be that commodity credit corporation would obtain the best possible price on governmentheld butter. and consumers would be able to buy butter at this average pricewhich would be substantially lower than present retail prices. the exact reduction in consumer butter price would be determined by the figure at which commodity credit corporation would price its butter. in the interests of stimulating consumption of butter. this program would make possible the determining of the price at which substantially increased volumes of butter would readily sell. this plan is the only presently proposed program under which governmentheld surpluses can legally be disposed of in domestic markets at lower prices to consumers. the national milk producers federation does  favor waiting for any legislation to be passed. as it feels action should be taken immediately to move stocks of cccowned butter into commercial consumer channels. we understand senator gilletre. of iowa. has proposed a stamp plan to make stocks of cccowned food available to the aged and needy. we would certainly endorse such a program and encourage its being put into action immediately or as soon as possible. however. we feel such a program would  use all butter stocks of ccc. and our disposal suggestion also would have to be put into effect.
. action of the secretary of agriculture in reducing butter price supports as of april 1 is clearly intended to deal with unmanageable surpluses and inducement to further surpluses which threatened to equal the potato pricesupport scandal and is a real effort to hold a more even balance between the producer and marketer and the consumer of butter. the responsibility  rests upon the consumer. the processor and the distributor. the dairy farmer and the department of agriculture to make this plan good. butter consumption has dropped by almost onehalf in the last 10 years from 1.870.000.000 pounds per year to 1.200.000.000 pounds. consumers should  buy more butter as the price becomes more attractive. processors and distributors have got to keep their spread down and reflect lower prices at the producer level promptly to the consumerthe anncement that the retail price will remain the same in washington is a bad precedent. in addition. following the example of industry. widespread promotion should be undertaken in cooperation with the producer to increase butter consumption. the producer should cooperate in an essential ecoic adjustment making up for lower prices in more efficient production and diversification of output as well as greater volume. the secretary of agriculture should get butter stocks into consumption as recommended by the national milk producers federation in order to give the public the benefit of lower prices and encourage absorption of the emous governmentheld stocks overhanging the market. secretary benson is entitled to the support of representatives of consumers most of whom are in the big citieshe has had that support from me right along and he should have it from others similarly situated.
. a good many of the members who are here  were  here when i discussed this question in general debate. it is my intention. if a motion to recommit is  offered on the other side. to offer a motion to recommit this bill for further consideration. my reason is this. i would like to restate it briefly by way of summation of what i said before in general debate. this bill is designed essentially to sustain the present 90percent fixed pricesupport farm program. it gives consideration to the new program recommended by the administration. it does  even give consideration to the revision in the program already ordered by the secretary of agriculture in respect of butter. hence it seems to me to be directly tied to the existing farmprice policy and it is my conviction that this is the basis for this vote. it is impossible. however. to oppose the bill in toto because there is some money that will be needed under any farmpricesupport program and therefore the logical thing is to have the vote upon a motion to recommit. the statement was made a moment ago that this farmprice policy has cost the country only $1 billion. i am sorry. but i can agree with that statement. and i say that for this reason: the commodity credit corporation credits at the full amount of what it paid for commodities all repayments to it by other government agencies. i think everybody here ks that very large transactions have taken place under the european recovery and other programs. with the commodity credit corporation in that way without regard to market or actual prices. a department of agriculture estimate i have seen quoted puts the cost of agricultural and related programs 193253 at over $16 billion to which can be added over $4 billion for wartime consumer subsidies or a total of over $20 billion.
i shall ask two questions of the gentleman. first. i should like to say that i thoroughly agree with this effort to dispose of agricultural surplus. regardless of how i may fecland we will have aher chance to debate thatabout why it was piled up. but i should like to ask the gentleman whether it is  a fact that under this bill. subsection (b) of section 103. providing for reimbursement to the commodity credit corporation by appropriation. it will result in making the ccc whole in terms of dollars regardless of the price at which these agricultural commoditie3 are sold to foreign countries. and thereby. the commodity credit corporation will  be required to absorb any loss and you are really masking the loss which they are actually taking. is  that true.
my only point is that every time you come in here for aher authorization for the commodity credit corporation to give them lending authority it is always contended they have  lost any money. but you mask all their losses in this way so it can appear on the figures that they have  lost any. that is the only point i was making.
. the purpose of this amendment is for tidy administration and for an understanding of exactly what we are doing both on the farmaid program and in terms of surplus commodities for foreign assistance or for other similar purposes. the amendment requires that the commodity credit corporation shall certify the selling price in dollars to the recipient of what is being sold for foreign currencies under this program. this is intended to make it very clear that the appropriations which are then made as provided by the bill to reimburse the commodity credit corporation for all its investment in the commodity sold represent reimbursement. but do  represent the value of what is being utilized in this program. the value of what is utilized is by my amendment separately identified. and anyone can then argue who wishes as to the success or failure in dollars of the farmprice support program and as to the success or failure in dollars in the way in which these agricultural surplus commodities are being used. i think it is fair. i could go through the mumbojumbo of saying there should  be appropriations and that the commodity credit corporation should come in and ask for new authority as its buying authority gets reduced. but that would be just mumbojumbo. i think. so long as we k what the facts and figures are. that is what. within reason. we ought to have.
i had a question which was similar to the question asked by the senator from pennsylvania. it was suggested by one of the large banking firms in the state of new york. the suggestion was made that perhaps we could apply this situation to the rules contained in the sec act. which provide that officers and directors who have more than a 10percent stock interest shall disclose their beneficial interest. will the senator from connecticut comment on that.
i have read the amendment. am i correct in assuming that it is prospective in its application. so that if any state passes a law allowing commercial banks to have such branches. then. under this amendment. such a law will apply to savings and loan associations. as well.
. i should like to qualify myself to ask the question i am about to propound by the following statement: i have received a telegram from the superintendent of banks of the state of new york. in which telegram he urges me to vote against any amendment to the section  under consideration. and to support the section as is. the question i have is. do i correctly understand that the senator from arkansaq opposes the amendment because he feels there is built into the section itself an antitrust law. that it is to be administered by agencies of government charged with the regulation of banks. and that he does  wish to transfer that authority. by virtue of this amendment. to some other agency of government to administer aher antitrust law  concerned with mergers and consolidations.
i should like to point out that when i was attorney general of new york. which is a position i held quite recently. the banking superintendent there had the power to approve mergers. the same power proposed to be given to the comptroller of the currency under the bill. the banking superintendent always coordinated with me. though there was doubt whether. under our antitrust laws. i could have done anything about it. we found that there were mergers which were absolutely essential to bring banking service to small communities. the banks. either for lack of business or because they did  have capital adequate to meet the growing need. would have found it necessary to deprive the community of service if we had  permitted the merger. we also foundwhich is important in connection with this situationthat if we had  agreed that such applicants would have to face only one regulatory agency. to wit. the superintendent and attorney general combined. and if they had had to run two hurdles. they would  have made progress at all. i should like to have the comments of the senator from arkansas in the light of the contents of this telegram.
for the same reason that i voted against the previous amendment. which was offered by the senator from wyoming . i intend to vote for the pending amendment. which has been offered by the senator from illis . if the senator from illis will permit me to do so. i should like to state why. my reason for opposing the amendment of the senator from wyoming was that it would have made a merger possible of defeat after its consummation. having been an attorney general myself. i believe that such an amendment would absolutely eliminate mergers. it would become almost impossible to make them. the amendment of the senator from illis would serve the beneficent purpose of introducing antitrust law legislation. by an authority specifically charged with enforcing antitrust law legislation. into the stage of predetermination. in that respect the amendment of the senator from illis is administratively entirely sound. and i shall support it.
by way of comment upon the most interesting and provocative address which is being made by my colleague. the senator from tennessee. let me say that i feel deeply. and i say with assurance that all of us who serve in the congress are gravely concerned. about the extent of the merger movement in the united states. i believe it is recognized that there are deep techogical reasons for it. it is also recognized that small business is the backbone of american enterprise. and that small business must have a way to exist. personally. i believeand i shall appreciate having the comment of the senator from tennessee on this pointthat small business needs two other things even more than it needs the tax relief which has so generally been discussed. of course. i hope small business will receive tax relief. also. i shall support the granting of such relief. i believe that small business needs technical assistance. especially engineering assistance. in respect to marketingwhich is aher field in which big business has great advantages. i also believe that small business needs to have the antitrust division of the department of justice arrive at a new concept in the case of joint efforts on the part of small business. as the principle of restraint of competition is applied to such activities. certainly such a new concept is needed by small business. which needs protection from what would be the unecoic aspects of the application to it of the laws against restraint of competition in the case of big business. i hope very much that in the course of our concentration upon the problems of small business. we shall consider that situation. many years ago. when practicing law. i was attorney for many small business groups. especially in the nra days and the trade association days immediately following the nra. i found that in many cases such businesses could survive and could be prosperous and could be very helpful in the public interest if. in the application of the antitrust laws to them. some cognizance were taken of the fact that if they were ever to compete with great financial power. they. themselves. would have to have some opportunity to cooperate. although today we find that is inhibited by the antitrust laws. i wonder whether the senator from tennessee will comment on that point.
twentyeight billion dollars. will the senator join with. i think. so many of us. in the feeling that the dedication of some of these fundssay a round figure of 10 percent of themto this particular mortgage market represents a highly patriotic purpose. it seems to me. considering the source of the funds. that it is almost the bounden duty of the trustees. whether individual trustees or bank trustees. to invest in the fha and va mortgages.
i simply wish to bear out the senators argument from a report given me only yesterday morning from the syracuserochester area in new york. which indicates that the 2 percent administrative lowering of downpayments by the administration has  helped the situation at all. and that it is necessary to have the downpayment reduction relief about which the senator has spoken. in addition. the market has practically dried up. except for 4 to 6 points discount and 20 percent downpayments. for any kind of fha mortgage.
i think the senator from new york answered that question very accurately before. and he would be repeating to answer it again. i repeat my answer once more. again i say i can attempt to persuade. i can only attempt to explain. which i shall do once more. what i said was if a person. whether he is an alien or . or a corporation or . or a corporate personality or . comes within the confines of the jurisdiction of this statute. under the decided cases. then. because such person is an alien or corporation. he will  be excluded. but the inclusion of jurisdiction is  determined because he is an alien or because he is a corporation. that is my answer.
i do  mind that. because there are about 23.380 cases of questions involving many rights which are less valuable than these rights. including the antitrust and patent cases. which do  encompass the lives and futures of a very ordinary human being. so i do  mind that at all. and i am  dismayed by it.
the only reason i have requested the right to be heard is that i represent the interests of both my senior colleague and myself. we have been alert to a unanimousconsent request pertaining to any bill. we are deeply concerned with the exigencies which surround the problems relating to niagara. we also appreciate the fact that in a technical sense the small business administration has gone out of business. for all practical purposes. as of last night. so i ask only of the majority leader whether his request. made in the course of the debate on the civilrights bill. is being confined to the small business administration and is  intended as a precedent.
the antitrust laws so provide. the question in my mindand i think the question in the minds of many of usis what will happen when the pending bill. in its completely encompassing breadth. becomes law. i look forward with the greatest of interest to the explanations on that legal point. which i hope will be forthcoming from the proponents of the amendment. with all respect. i think we have a right to pose certain questions. and that is one of them.
. it seems to me that again we are thinking there is something magical about getting money from the federal government with which to finance these projects. the senator from oregon has given us an alternative. we do  have that luxury in new york. we could  go to the federal government. we have to sell the bonds in the market place at the same time. when there is  such a necessity. and when by perfectly reasonable terms and conditions it is possible to raise the money privately. it seems to me that it is almost our bounden duty to do so. i am very proud to be a senator from a state which is going to finance the project. as agreed. because we are situated that we can do it in exactly that way.
the federal power commission has shown its policy in the license given for the st. lawrence project. the policy is expressed in the st. lawrence license as follows: the licensee shall make a reasonable portion of the power capacity and a reasonable portion of the power output available for use within the ecoic market area in neighboring statesand shall cooperate with agencies in such states to insure compliance with this requirement. the federal power commission itself has exactly the policy which is being spelled out by the senator from pennsylvania.
i agree with the senator. and support him. because i have found that a spirit of fight pays. the senator has made a fight for a very major principle. in which i k he believes deeply. namely. ecoic aid on a business basis. with business opportunity. which means a fund in hand. the senator from arkansas ranks very high on the committee on foreign relations. this is  the end of the battle. i ice from the report that it is contemplated that a corporation will be organized to administer foreign aid. i think. in addition to all the other expressions which have been made in the senate. that the senator from arkansas should be encouraged in this fight. i think he is fighting for the best in a bipartisan foreign policy. and is fighting for the best longrange interests of our country.
i have the ho to be a member of the small business committee. and the ho of joining in sponsorship of this bill. i was greatly impressed by the hearings which were conducted on the subject of taxation as related to small business. and ed the strong feeling of small business that this problem represents a very serious difficulty. under the very distinguished guidance of our chairman. we are endeavoring to do something about the problem. i think it should be made clear in the record. howeverand i say this as a lawyer. and i k that my chairman will bear with methat i have some serious doubts as to that part of the bill which relates to the acquiescence by the treasury department in determinations of courts on tax matters. this question may present some real problems in administrative feasibility. however. i feel very strongly. in company with my colleagues. that we must give urgent attention to the question of tax help for small business. for that reason. i was glad of the privilege to be a cosponsor of the bill. i feel that the legislative process will enable us to deal with all of the problems involved. i should like also to add that it is my deep conviction that two other problems are very serious to small business. one is the problem of antitrust enforcement. with respect to that problem. i feel that we may very well have to adopt a different approach for small business than for the generality of business. looking more to the affirmative side than to the negative side. for example. stopping mergers and other things which may be desired. secondly. there is the problem of technical assistance to small business in research and development and other areas. management problems remain among the most important problems of all business enterprise in the united states. the committee under the very distinguished guidance of my colleague. the senator from alabama. has such a wonderful record that i am confident that we shall deal as effectively with the other problems as our chairman is  leading us to deal with the problem of taxation as it affects small business.
. as a member of the select committee on small business. i am in part responsible for the pending measure. and i am very pleased to see it brought before the senate. following the statement the senator from minnesota has made. i wish to state that the four problems of small business are as follows: first. financing. next. the need for tax considerationwhich i urgently hope will be received. it has been recommended by the administration. and i think such consideration is one of the real contributions which can be made to the problems which confront activities in the smallbusiness field. i should like to add two other points which should be considered in connection with the problems of small business: the need for research and development in the most cooperative way. which is absolutely essential if small business is to hold its own in modern techogy. last. but by means least. the antitrust problems of small business  only need enforcement of the antitrust laws in the same way that they are enforced in the united states against mooly and big business. but they also need a termination of the enforcement which thus far has prevailed in the case of small business. so that small businesses may have some of the benefits which large businesses enjoy in this particular field. i think we need a positive and affirmative approach to the antitrust laws for the benefit of small business. if we really want to cope with their problems and recognize small business as the vertebrae of the american freeenterprise system. finally. i think it is important to e that small business is badly hurt right . and the recession is having a very adverse impact on it. therefore. i should like to join my colleagues who have urged expeditious action on this very urgent and needed legislation. i join in the expectation that the bill will have speedy consideration and will be approved in the other body.
i believe the difficulty is that we draw analogy between this situation and that of a corportion which is required to file a report under the securities and exchange act. it is conceivable that the president of such a corporation could plead the fifth amendment. then what would happen. then he would  have to file the report. and penalty would be imposed against him. but the corporation still would have to file the report. and if the corporation could  find aher officer who would file the report. the corporation would be guilty of violating the law. and would be subject to all the penalties provided therefor. a similar situation will exist in this case. and it is  necessary to write this provision into the law. the fact is that if the union can find an apropriate officer to file the report which the law requires to be filed. then the union.  the individual. will be guilty and will incur all the penalties which are provided. certainly there is an exact parallel between such action by a union and the action by a corporation to which i have referred. although there has been much discussion in regard to union officials who have been involved in graft. and so forth. we also k that corporations are  entirely inent of such conduct. either. so the same requirement should be made of each.
i should like to ask a question which interests me. because it goes to the fundamental philosophy of the matter. under the law pertaining to securities and exchange. if a corporate director is derelict in filing a statement as to his personal transactions in the stock of the company. does the law deprive the corporation of the right to file with the sec a statemient to entitle it to sell securities.
let me ask the senator aher question. if a corporation fails to file a return with the sec and is guilty of a crime. does the law provide that the corporation shall be denied the right to file aher return to have access to the services of the sec for aher purpose.
i was  asking questions to be provocative. i was really trying to direct my attention to the fundamental philosophy involved  only in this amendment. but in a number of other amendments. the thing that troubles me is whether we really have any record to support dealing with trade unions differently than we deal with other kinds of bodies. such as corporations. with respect to corporations. it is our settled practice  to cut off the corporation from its essential functioning because someone has done wrong. i do  think we have shown too much more rascality in unions than. on other occasions. we have shown in corporations. we do  happen to be investigating corporations . almost as many things which are punished as crimes in the courts of the land every day occur in connection with corporations as in connection with unions. the question which becomes particularized is whether we would be punishing the unions unduly by that process of dealing with the officers. i think we would be punishing them unduly. the reason is the time lag. very often a union must get to the board quickly in order to serve its organic purpose. it may require time to get rid of an officer. that process may involve the constitution of the union. litigation. disputes with respect to facts. and so forth. if the union itself does  file a report. it is criminally liable. just as a corporation which does  file a report is criminally liable. i do  see that we have made a record which justifies the unique treatment of denying to a union the approach to the processes of a government agency because someone in that entity has done wrong in some other field.
i do  like generic provisions. that is why i voted against the fiduciary amendment last night. even though i am sympathetic toward the idea of the highest fiduciary requirements with respect to union officials as well as corporate officials. but i do  like acrosstheboard provisions without specifications. i agree that unions and corporations are  identical in many respects. i would  lay a template over them and say. "the same rules should apply to both." i was addressing myself to the funda.mental moral question. have we any right to say that union members are less wise. less alert. less mature. than corporate stockholders. have we any right to say that union leaders are bigger rascals than those in the corporate field.
i have conferred with the senator from th carolina. we believe this would follow corporate practice. under which an officer can be reimbursed by his corporation. if the action which he has performed is an illegal one or is ultra vires his own authority as an officer of the corporation. therefore. one would have to get the exact circumstances to which the senator from colorado referred. but i think it is important to have the fundamental principle set forth in the record that where money is sought to be paid to a union official. to hold him harmless for a sum which he has paid by way of penalty. that would have to be justified civ713 under the applicable law as an act within the authority of the union. if it were . then it could be recovered under the provision which will be written into the bill if the amendment is agreed to.
. so far as i k. this is the first effort to afford that cooperative opportunity. either on a regional basis or an industrywide basis. through their trade associations and through smallbusiness firms. for years. as a lawyer. i represented their trade associations. and i believe this measure will be a means of enabling small businesses to keep up with the pace of today. the present business recession has drawn the special problems of small business into sharp focus. unless government aid. in terms of loans for technical assistance and research. is made available to them. the survival of thousands of these concerns is in doubt. small business is  only a critical part of our social order. it is the backbone of the united states ecoy. for more than 4 million firmsabout 95 percent of the totalemploy 50 workers or less. the general state of its health is  good. the small business administration reports that. for the first 4 months of 1958. the number of failures was 15 percent greater than over 1 year ago. in my home state of new york. which has over onetenth of all the small businesses. the failure rate for the same period has risen nearly 25 percent. unfortunately. this is  a new national trend. with the exception of 1955. the number of small business failures has increased every year since 1951. repeatedly. studies show a high correlation between the growth rate of an individual industry and firms in it and the percentage of sales dollars invested in research and development. even before our present serious business situation developed. we had reached a point where new methods to encourage small firms to develop and make their full contribution to an evergrowing ecoy had to be devised. high on the list of new means toward accomplishing that end is to permit small firms to engage in joint research ventures. so they can keep pace with progress in an era in which new methods and processes develop rapidly. brandnew products appear. and customer buying habits often change dramatically. if smaller concerns are limited to their financial resources. then thousands of them must either reach a certain level and stagnate or. being unable to compete against the newest products. must eventually go under. the bill i am introducing today gives approved research and development organizations incorporated as a mutual or stock company authority to do the following: first. to construct. acquire. or establish laboratories and other facilities for the conduct of research. second. to undertake applied research on its own initiative. and to share the results with its members. third. to collect research information related to a particular industry. and disseminate it to its members. fourth. to conduct applied research on a protected. proprietary. and contractual basis. with member or member firms. government agencies. and other. fifth. to prosecute applications for patents. and render patent services for member firms. sixth. to negotiate and grant licenses under patents held by it. and to establish subsidiary corporations designed to exploit particular patents obtained by it. ample safeguards have been provided to protect against violations of the antitrust statutes. under the language of the billthe administrator may. after consultation with the attorney general and the chairman of the federal trade commission. and with the prior written approval of the attorney general. approve any agreement between smallbusiness concerns involving the pooling of financial resources for the establishment under state law of research and development organizations whenever the administrator finds that the joint program proposed is consistent with the competitive. freeenterprise system and will strengthen the national ecoy. approval of the agreement and the joint program could be withdrawn at any time when it was felt the best interests of the national ecoy were  being served and. for example. whenever it was determined that concerns participating in the project could longer be classified as small business. mally. under present procedures. small businesses just starting out do  receive small business administration loans. however. this bill allows the administrator. following the regular approval procedures. to loan up to $250.000 to a newly organized research and development group. the loans. made directly or together with other lending institutions. will run up to 30 years. and can be extended or renewed for  more than an additional 10 years. at a rate of interest to be determined. insofar as the governments share is concerned. by the small business administration. it should be pointed out that. while the smallbusiness research and development pool is a new entity. the small businesses owning and operating it will be well established and responsible firms. the job security of 35 million american workers depends on the financial stability and growth potential of all our nations small businesses. their future is directly related to the ability of small business to attract new customers and enter new markets with new products here at home and in the years ahead. with increasing participation in exporting goods into enlarging markets in the partially developed areas of the world. scientists have assured us that research techniques can be applied successfully to nearly every type of small business. both in the technical and in the distribution fields. we must open wide the laboratory door to firms of every size in every industry. for it is evident that research. discovery. and development represent the main basis of progress for business in the decades ahead.
. i ask leave to have printed. under the rule. amendments to the bill to amend the small business act of 1953. my amendments deal with research and development plans for small business. and the amendments are sponsored by the distinguished occupant of the chair at the present time. the senator from pennsylvania . as well as those who sponsored the original bill with me. senators beall. cooper. humphrey. long. sparkman. thye. and hoblitzell.
i think that purpose would be buttressed by my amendment. which. in clause (b). provides for joint programs to undertake and utilize applied research. that particular clause is  restricted in terms of members or members in connection with each of the joint programs. therefore. i would anticipate that when the small business administration came to negotiate with a particular group. there would be the kind of extension service which the senator from vermont has just described.
the purpose of my amendment is to make it possible for the sba to lend money to a group of small concerns which may club together or organize a corporation for the purpose of engaging in research and development. when they can do it alone. in my amendment i have certain specifications or criteria which they must meet in order to get a loan. when they club together for the purpose of engaging in research and development. or organize themselves into a corporation to engage in research and development. the amendments represent a concept of small concerns clubbing together to carry on cooperative research. the specifications in my amendments are the particular things which they can do when they are actually cooperating.
my amendment would  authorize the establishment of such a corporation. however. if it is created under state authority for the purpose of engaging in cooperative research. then the amendment would allow the small business administration to help that kind of organization or corporation or setup. the amendment would  set up a corporation by charter.
we do  authorize anything but the sba to make loans to this kind of outfit. whether or  it would have the powers indicated would depend on the charter received from the state. or. if there were a partnership. the contract of partnership. the only point we are making is that when the sba undertakes to lend the money. it will first look for these criteria. this pertains to things which smallbusiness concerns can do for themselves. we are  directing them to do them. we are  even giving them the power to do them. we are only telling the sba: "when somebody comes to you. say a corporation or a partnership. equipped to do this kind of business. you may consider them for a loan."
i am in agreement with the statement of the senator from louisiana that when an analogous situation exists. and as a result of the liquidation of claims against the bulgarian. hungarian. rumanian. or soviet governments there is a surplus. the principle under discussion should be adopted and should be made universal as to all such claims. i recognize how things work out in the senate. i k one could try to intrude with an amendment which would raise important questions of principle and policy. and which might even prejudice the principle upon which the senator from louisiana and i have agreed. i point out. for example. in respect to the practice of giving stockholders of corporations a claim against funds. that matter has been liberalized in this bill beyond what it was. and a stockholder is permitted to plead corporate bail and make claim directly against the fund. the committee recognized the policy had to be extended to the bulgarian. hungarian. rumanian. and soviet claim funds. and did so in the bill. i would be content to let the bill go as it is. i appreciate the circumstances. however. i express the hopeand i k the senators feeling in this matter . and i appreciate it very muchthat the senator will make a real drive in the committee to establish for others this principle in legislation adopted for the italian claims. there may be hing left in the funds. it may be that the aggregate claims are several times the amount in the funds. we all understand that. perhaps when the liquidation date has arrived there will be a surplus. at least let us give those persons who are  american citizens. but who were  at the time of the loss of their property. some expectation that they may be able to participate if there is a surplus. this is a worthwhile principle. a sensible solution to the dilemma in which we found ourselves. and perhaps a reasonable compromise which could be made universally applicable in regard to claims legislation.
i thank the senator. i should like to ask a question especially with reference to futures markets in staple commodities. since i represent. in part. a great trading center and a state in which there are many dealings in securities and commodities. i should like to ask the senator if he will distinguish the unique situation of onions from the other futures trading in various commodities. minerals. metals. and so forth.
. it is the result of a long period of study and consultation. involving individuals and organizations specializing in financial matters. both private and public. as well as businessmen and ecoists in the united states. europe and asia. under the terms of the proposed legislation introduced today. initial and temporary capital funds totaling $100 million for the world development corporation would be subscribed to by the united states government through the secretary of the treasury. on a longrange basis. the corporation would obtain capital funds for its operation by offering stock for public sale. predominantly to the small investor which would intend ultimately to raise a maximum of $15 billion by this method. particularly at this time. when the senate will soon be considering the mutual security appropriations. the idea for the world development corporation looms as a most provocative and stimulating proposal. deserving serious study during the approaching congressional recess. it looks ahead to a time when the major burden of financing urgently needed large scale ecoic projects. as well as small scale private enterprise in communist countries can be shifted from public to private channels to finance. while obtaining a fair return to the small investor. the onrushing soviet ecoic challenge merely underscores a fact that has been evident since the end of world war iithat our own national and ecoic security depends upon our willingness and ability to play a substantial ecoic role in the advancement of industrialization. agricultural productivity. and living standards so abysmally low in many areas of the free and committed world. directly related to progress abroad is our own longrange ecoic advancement at a steady growth rate directly affecting business and farm prosperity. increased job opportunities. and better living standards right here at home. undoubtedly. public funds for ecoic development from the united states. directly and indirectly through international agencies. will be continued for some years. but we can continue to rely on them as heavily as we have to date and achieve the necessary ecoic progress. from the end of world war ii through 1957. our government made available a net global total of $62 billion in net grants and credit. however. only a relatively small percentage was spent on encouraging ecoic development. and just $5 billion of the entire amount went to less developed areas for that purposeabout 40 cents per capita annually in areas with upward of a billion people. obviously. the flow of private capital needs to be emously expanded in the years ahead if a stable industrial superstructure is to be built on the foundations  being laid by public funds. equally as important as the ecoic factors are the political and social factors in the broadest sense. by demonstrating throughout the world  only that we in the united states can help to make responsible government work for the benefit of free peoples everywhere. but also that we can help to make responsible private enterprise work for the benefit of free peoples everywhere. we may by precept and example enlarge the appeal of our admixture of enterprise and government in other areas of the world. and by making it possible for other peoples to rise out of starvation or deprivation to a degree of industrialization which will make further improvement in living standards increasingly feasible through their own efforts. we shall have gotten closer to the heart of the problem of permanent world peace. while the united states. by virtue of its unique ecoic strength. can contribute most in volume to the international flow of private capital for the time being. the proposed legislation is pointed also to the encouragement of private capital flow from other welldeveloped countries to the lessdeveloped countries and to one aher. the structure. mechanism. and functions of the proposed world development corporation are geared to an increasing mutuality of flow of private capital around the globe. the proposal is based upon the fundamental assumption that this flow. in ample amounts. can do as much as any other single factor to help keep the ship of peace afloat and off the shoals. this world development corporation idea is well worth our study and consideration. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record following my remarks.
. the small business tax bill. which i favor very much. provides that an individual who makes an investment in a small business concern may deduct his losses from ordinary income rather than as a capital loss or as a capital gain.
the provision i am offering would extend that provision to partnerships. in the city of new york there are a number of partnerships which extend a great deal of credit and longterm financing to small business concerns. they believe. from an analysis of the bill. that they would  be covered by it. i have discussed the matter with the distinguished chairman of the committee on finance.
i thank my colleague. the majority leader. i am introducing for appropriate reference. on behalf of the senator from kentucky . the senator from montana . and myself. a bill to establish a world development corporation for the purpose of stimulating free world ecoic growth by increasing materially the amount of private capital which flows from the united states and other industrial nations into the less developed areas of the communist world.
. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record as a part of my remarks a listing of the holding companies in question. together with the subsidiary banks under each holding company. i have that information in the form of a chart. but i am sure the reporter can work it out so it will be in the form of text.
i thank my colleague. . the reason for my opposition to the amendment. which came under very considerable discussion in our committee. is as follows: i believe that it is based upon the concept of the attorney general. who is   in the picture in respect to bank mergers. if he were  in the picture. then we should find a way in which to be sure that the antitrust aspects of a bank merger were considered. but if he is. then we must find out whether there is a reason for a procedure which would materially enlarge his role in bank merger cases. as compared with his role in other cases. that is the real question about my colleagues amendment. i believe it is clear that the attorney general is  in bank merger cases. if we need any proof of itand this has  been mentioned in the discussion thus farit is a fact that the attorney general is  suing. under both the clayton act and the sherman act. to stop a bank merger in california. the action is entitled "united states against first america corp.." and it deals with the merger of a number of small banks into the bank of california. the result would be that all those banks would become first america corp.s subsidiaries. this particular suit is based both on the clayton act. because it involves a stock ownership situation. and also on the sherman act. because it involves a restraint of trade situation. as the attorney general sees it. the point is that if we were to do hing about the law the attorney general would be perfectly free to institute any litigation he wished to institute to stop any bank merger. the second point. which i think is very important. is this: shall we give the attorney general more authority with respect to bank mergers than with respect to other mergers. i feel that there is reason for even less authority. because there are other regulatory agencies. such as the comptroller of the currency. the federal deposit insurance corporation. and the federal reserve board. there is  the same situation in respect of ordinary corporate merger cases. here we have a regulated situation. the compromise adopted by the committee was to require the agencies to repair to the attorney general to ascertain his position before they acted. i think that compromise represents the introduction of the attorney general at this early stage of the proceedings in a perfectly fair and proper way. this is a situation with which i have had personal experience. i was attorney general of the state of new york. and. as attorney general of the state of new york. i actually dealt with a bank merger. namely. the chase national bank with the bank of manhattan company. one of the largest bank mergers in the united states. in that case. the agency which had to approve obtained the approval of my own officethe office of the state law enforcement officerand also cleared through the office of the attorney general. i use those words because i am  acquainted at the moment with the particular legal technique which indicates that it is all right to go ahead. i saw how the rather informal process of clearance worked. it is fair to say that in connection with that merger  only were the agencies of the state and federal government concerned with antitrust administration consulted. but their views on antitrust legislation were given prime weight. to which they are entitled. the governmental banking agencies confine themselves to other criteria than the antitrust criteria. it was a fact. howeverand it is even recognized by the amendment of the senator from wyoming [mr. omahoneyithat there are cases in which the antitrust aspects must be overruled. although the senator from wyoming tries to cover every contingency. we k. as practical men. that that is a pretty tough assignment. if my colleagues will look at page 2 of the omahoney amendment. from line 7 down to line 19. it will be seen that there are cases. even contemplated by that amendment. in which the proper banking agency should overrule the antitrust authority. i believe that an honest. good faith effort has been made to cover all the situations in which that should be done. but i repeat that. as a practical matter. it is almost impossible to envisage every situation in which that kind of judgment should be exercised. therefore i believe that. as the committee bill stands. we  have a scheme of regulation in respect to bank mergers which is very adequate for the purpose. and that in the interest of the national security. and in respect to matters of this character. we do  need to add new procedures which. in effect. if one follows the omahoney amendment. would make litigation ensue in almost every case of a bank merger with respect to which the attorney general disapproved.  only is a hearing called for under this amendment. but the attorney general could actually go into court and contest a decision even before it was made. i feel that if there is on the floor. as there was in the committee. some sentiment for strengthening what the bill already contains. i can see the logic for strengthening it far more surely by substituting for the word "unduly." which i do  like. because it is a new word in respect to restraint of competition. the word "substantially." which is a word of art. and which has been construed by the courts. second. i would favor establishing in the bill  only what it  provides. namely. a requirement that the attorney general must be consulted. but the additional requirement that there must be a report. including disclosure to the public of the fact of an adverse report by the attorney general. if one has been made. thus placing upon the banking authority the burden of overriding. in the public gaze. as it were. the adverse opinion of the attorney general.
he would  have been able to proceed under the clayton act. but he would have been able to proceed under the sherman act. as a matter of fact. there is a count in the complaint under the sherman act for violation of section 1 of the sherman act. furthermore. when i faced the question of approving the merger in new york to which i referred a few moments ago in the course of my main talk. the attorney general found as a fact that he had jurisdiction under the sherman act. so i agree with the senator that had it involved a stock acquisition. the attorney general could  have proceeded under the clayton act. however. i repeat the point i made that he can proceed under the sherman act. and. in fact. he has. therefore. it bears out my position that the attorney general is in this picture in terms of the antitrust laws when bank mergers are involved.
. i should like  to sum up the situation. the legislative history is  very clear that the bill which is before the senate does  deprive the attorney general of jurisdiction either under the clayton act or under the sherman act. indeed. i may say. as a matter of legislative construction. the fact that the word "unduly" is in this section. and the word "substantially" is in the clayton act. would. if anything. buttress the bill we would pass. because the standard established would enable the courts to hold the banking agency deciding the case to the same standard adopted by the attorney general. but the legislative history is clear that hing is taken away from the attorney general. . my friend. the senator from tennessee. argues that a different standard is established for the attorney general in stock acquisition cases than is established for the regulatory agency. i see hing wrong in that. the attorney general is  obliged to bring every case. he brings a case when he determines that the public interest requires it. this bill will  inhibit him from bringing a case. and so. it seems to me. the antitrust provision. insofar as the attorney general is concerned. is fully safeguarded.
i am  quite through. what this bill does is add something which is  in the law today. it adds an antitrust criterion the same one. but an antitrust criterionto all the other criteria of the regulatory agency. that is a good thing. that is what i am for. that is a step forward. i do  believe that adding the right of the attorney general to litigate in these particular proceedings is a desirable thing insofar as the public interest is concerned.
. may i invite the attention of all my colleagues to a rather hasty comparison i have made with reference to item 5 on page 20 of the report. which says: where the acquired bank is an unecoic unit or is too small to meet the needs of its community by providing loans of sufficient size or by providing needed banking facilities. a hasty comparison of that particular paragraph with the exceptions does  indicate it is included. is that correct.
. i shall be brief. but i have some information to bring to the attention of the senate on this subject which may prove of interest. every senator present ks that in regard to the mutual security program i have been very deeply concerned. with the private investor phase. which can be very important in respect to the program. the state department. at my request. has made an analysis of the fundamental basis upon which private investment must rest.  simply in the air. but taking the matter country by country. with the permission of the senator from arkansas. whose amendment i support. i should like to have the analysis printed as a part of my remarks. and i ask unanimous consent that it may be done.
i think the senator has covered very well the prejudice to savers and the fact that in the present market for interest rates if one had a ceiling it would very likely become a floor. in other words. if we provide a 4/4 percent interest ceiling it is very likely the rate will go to that and will be pressing against it immediately. whereas if we provide for flexibility the government will be in a competitive position. i have one other question which i should like to ask the senator. as to the effect of passing the bill upon the longterm treasury bonds.  on the savings bonds. i shall produce later in the day a series of answers from all government bond dealers. to indicate that they feel the only way. at the present time. in which the market can be stabilized. or has a chance of being stabilized. in regard to longterm treasury bonds. short of an interest rate increase on longterm treasury bonds. is by an increased interest rate on the savings bonds. it is said that attrition is endangering the whole savings bond market. that is. the cash attrition of $156 million. which is a new high. which we lost. net. on the eand hbonds in july 1959. alone. what i should like to ask the senator is whether the committee gave consideration to those factors in respect to this bill. and thought that they would have an effect  only with regard to the selling of the savings bonds but also with regard to helping correct the very dangerous condition in which the whole longterm treasury bond market  finds itself.
the first boston corporation states: in answer to your direct question concerning the possible market reaction to a "peace bond campaign." we believe that any revision in terms which provides a fair and competitive rate for savings bonds would strengthen the overall program. cut down attrition and. perhaps. even increase the amount of savings type securities outstanding. finally. c. j. devine & co.. aher one of the large houses dealing with these securities. says: as you may recall. during the war many slogans were developed for the purpose of selling savings bonds in order to raise substantial sums of money. if that were true then. the idea of a "peace bond" is one that each and everyone of us should be anxious to participate in . . this is the most important opinion available. i express the hope that together with my friend and colleague. the senator f*rom delaware . we may inspire the treasury to use this bill in the way it really should be used. in this imaginative and active way. to sell peace bonds to the people of the united states. i thank my colleague from connecticut for being so patient.
madam president. it is rather a pleasure for me to make a comment on the fact that the present occupant of the chair is presiding over us in the senate. i think i bespeak the hope on my own part and on the part of other members that this may be a more rather than a less frequent occurrence.. this is a real pleasure i k for all of us. madam president. i. too. as a relatively new member. would like to join in the encomiums so properly conferred upon the republican leader and the republican deputy leader. senator kuchel. and the majority leader. senator johnson of texas. and senator mansfield. these are very exacting and difficult tasks. i am sure that with the manifold problems of a state like new york. which keep senator keating and myself almost constantly on the floor on one thing and aher almost every day. we can be quite a trial to the leadership on both sides. i k that i have been treated with unfailing courtesy and great consideration. and i am very appreciative to my colleagues who are the leaders on both sides. i also take special pleasure. as the distinguished and gracious occupant of the chair did the other day. in paying a special tribute to the miity leader. who has seen us through some rough hours and has patiently borne disagreements by people like myself with some of the things that he held very dear. he respected fully the integrity of my position. as i respect his. and he has been most gracious. kind. and accommodating. finally. i should like to express to my committee chairmeni serve on a number of committeessenator douglas. chairman of the joint ecoic committee. senator hill. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. senator robertson. chairman of the committee on banking and currency. senator sparkman. chairman of the small business committeemy great appreciation for their kindness and cooperation and the great friendship which they have shown throughout the session.
as i said to my colleague. i think we have to evaluate each one of these things in terms of the factual experience. if the congress feels it wishes to extend the matter to the antitrust decrees or to the packers and stockyards decrees. that would be all right. but that is  the sense of the senators amendment. the senators amendment would extend the provision to all decrees of the courts. i do  k. and i can possibly guess. the outermost limitations. i think the senator from south dakota has helped us to refine the matter as to what it would cover. i can. with my eyes shut. assume that what the senator has catalogedsome tycoons violating antitrust decreesfills the whole bill. i do  k. there are a legion of things which may be involved. i do  k all of them. i k that when we pass a law and its operation is very mischievous. we have to undo it. i am satisfied and willing to remain with the specialized application to which the attorney general testified. as meeting his need. perhaps. if the senator can make a case for antitrust decrees or for patent decrees. we could include those. for whatever my vote would mean. i would be satisfied to include that. also. but i am  satisfied to go "whole hog" on this thing with my eyes shut. that is the point i am making.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a reply to me from the department of justice. dated june 17. 1959. but which i have updated by communicating with the department. which tells me that its answer is just as good today as it was then. the reply relates to the antitrust policy of the united states when it comes to private investments abroad by companies which are under some elements of legal or quasilegal compulsion or business necessity in assessing the legality of a foreign arrangement under the antitrust laws. as to whether the acts they would be performing in their investments and operations abroad would conform to the antitrust laws of the united states.
i ask unanimous consent that a letter i have received from mr. j. russell clark. superintendent of banks of new york. be printed at this point in the record. mr. clark raises two questions. which have been written out for senator robertson. together with senator rosertsons answers to those questions. if the senator from arkansas agreesand i understand that he doesi ask unanimous consent that the questions and answers may also be printed at this point in the recoa.
. that statement is a sad commentary. and it very materially affects my state and very materially affects other states which are in the same situation as we are. the whole balance of defense contracts has  shifted from the eastern part of the country to the west coast. we have been up and downhill upon this subject. and we admire the californians for having been able to corral so much of this business. we are going to try to emulate them all we can. but there is an area in which the east need  be neglected as it has been. and that is in the area of small business. especially in the area of subcontracting. it seems to me that when the committee feels moved to e a serious situation created in this field. those of us who have been disadvantaged and whose states have been seriously disadvantaged in respect to the defense contracts. have a right to draw attention to that condition and to demand of the department of defense that it do an infinitely better job than it has been doing. and to make the same demand of every other agency of government that has to do with the allocation of procurement contracts to small business. the committee goes on to suggest a very practical course in that regard. it suggests two things. first: sole source procurements made with funds appropriated under this act should be kept at a minimum. in other words. the maximum amount of subcontracting should be engaged in. i think it is up to those of us from states like my own to emphasize and underline the importance of the directive contained in the committees report to the defense department. the state of new york pays almost 20 percent of the tax bill of the united states. and yet its share of defense contracts has slid down to about onehalf of what it was. as i have said. in a competitive situation. it is our job to sharpen our pencils and do a better job than we have done previously. but certainly in the area of subcontracting. where small business such as we have in new york. can be advantaged rather than disadvantaged. we have a right to demand of the department of defense better performance than the committee itself finds has been given in respect of this legislation. the second suggestion made by the committee is: determined effort should be made to increase the participation of qualified small companies in the vast area of research and development contracts. on that score i call attention to the fact that section 9 of the small business act of 1958 has a very material provision in it to enable small business to compete for research and development contracts. a provision which has been sadly unused. it provides that small businesses may combine. withstanding the antitrust laws. in order to get research and development contracts. and it gives the attorney general authority to allow such combinations to take place. and. indeed. to keep an eye on them so he may withdraw his permission in the event that he finds that the privilege is being abused. i have just obtained facts which show that there are only two pooling groups for research and development. and neither of them has a contract. one is in denver. colo.. and involves 3 companies and 262 employees. the other is in albuquerque. n. mex.. with 4 companies and 90 employees. there are eight other small business production pools. and i am informed that e of these has contracts. to some extent. of course. it is the fault of the small business concerns themselves. but we have charged at least two agencies of the governmentthe department of defense and the small business administrationwith seeing that business gets a fair break in respect of department of defense procurements. of which we are constantly reminded. there are expenditures of $22 billion a year. egh to change the climate for small business throughout the united states completely. and the committee itself finds that this job is  being done. i have taken these brief few moments on the floor to register my demand. in which i hope senators from other states like my own will join me. to register a demand that the department of defense get on the job and to do so at least in the way that the committee has suggested. considering the vast range of tools that we have. including the tools of the small business act of 1958. which the congress has made available. and considering the fact that this report represents in my view the manifest will of the congress in this field.
. as one who has long been an advocate of expanded world trade. i call attention to the eworthy strides that have been taken by finland in setting the stage for increased mutually beneficial trade with the west and the united states. this small nation of 4 1/ million people is well kn to all of us for at least two important reasons: for paying its debts and for fighting valiantly for its independence. it is  so well kn that finland is a constitutional democracy. in which the traditions of freedom and individual liberty. as they are in the united states. serve as cornerstones of a private enterprise system. early this year the finnish government modified trade restrictions so that the united states can  sell more goods to finland. other significant steps. such as liberalization of currency restrictions. have strengthened consumer buying power and have provided the opportunity for increased trade between our two democratic countries. it is worth pointing out that the government of finland has never solicited aid. grants. or gifts from any country has it received any. only on a strictly business basis has finland entered into loans which she has received from this country or from international banking institutions. and. as has been her custom. finland is repaying such obligations. the vitality of finlands way of life was dramatically exemplified when this small country harnessed its resources to pay in a relatively short period about $650 million in reparations to russia after world war ii. this tremendous burden was met and overcome by the determination and perseverance of the finnish people. though located on the very border of communist russia. finlands private ecoic system serves as a meaningful symbol to all mankind. clearly. this is a country which deserves our esteem and our cooperation. its ecoic life is longer one sided. the leadership of the forestry and paper industries is being followed vigorously by finlands metal and manufacturing industries in establishing themselves on a world market level. in this connection. a report has been published expressing concern that american businessmen today are  sufficiently aware of the opportunities for profitable trade between finland and the united states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record pertinent excerpts from an article entitled "finnish trade turns to west." written by frank c. porter. and published in the washington post and times herald.
i would say that the remarks of my colleague from connecticut are certainly pertinent. and they bear upon the matter of getting the bicks ination acted on. so that these questions may  arise or be considered as germane to the proposition. i think it is pretty open kledge that the republican fund raisers find it very difficult in some areas of business because of the fact that this great support has been vested in bob bicks. in terms of the antitrust laws.
s inee to head the antitrust division of the justice department. i ask unanimous consent that there may be included in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a magnificent lead editorial published in the new york times of august 29. 1960. entitled "an overdue confirmation." also a fine endorsement of  states: your leadership in the administration of the antitrust laws. while extremely vigorous. has exhibited wisdom and judicious restraint. finally. an address delivered by mr. bicks before the antitrust section of the american bar association. at washington on august 29. 1960. on the consent decree policy of the government in respect of antitrust cases. showing the tremendous capability of mr. bicks in this field.
i should like to state. . that i concur with my colleague in the decision to stand where we are in respect of legislation in the securities field. i should like all my colleagues to study this important proposed legislation. which concerns the whole business of securities. stocks and bonds in private corporations in the united states. a subject in which our people have a great interest. reportedly 14 million people are  direct holders of such securities. i feel also. with my colleague. that the amendment offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania. representative walter. to that bill. which affected investment companies. is an idea we certainly will wish to consider very carefully. it relates to conflicts of interest by corporate directors and officers of such investment companies. but it is hardly a subject which we can consider on the last day of the session. i believe my colleague and chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from new jersey has therefore made the right decision in suggesting that we study the subject during the recess. i regret very much that the house did  act in respect of the securities acts of 1933 and 1934. but i hope that we can do the work during the recess and repair the situation in the next session.
this has been very much of a bipartisan action in the committee on banking and currency. thanks to the very generous attitude of our chairman. there was even some thought for a moment that some senator on this side of the aisle might have the ho of reporting the ination. those of us on our side who voted to support it. wish to join in the reporting of the ination. i shall have an opportunity. after our chairman and perhaps other members of the senate complete their statements. to say a word in behalf of dr. weaver. but for the moment i should like to have the record show that we join in the report to the senate. second. i wish to state my deep conviction as to the fact that dr. weaver will do a great job and that he has demonstrated his great patriotism as an american. i thank my colleague.
 . i am sorry that the senator from illis is  being quite just to me. i was alluding to the fact that it is claimed that one of the arguments in favor of defeating my amendment is that it will be used only rarely. and the senator from illis himself used. in referring to that point. the words "in rare cases." i have pointed out that it has been made easier. rather than more difficult. although that is by means the total answer. the senator from illis also said we may  have egh inducement for building up or redeveloping an area. i say there is too much inducement. that is the whole nubbin of my argument. there would be more inducement than would constitute fair competition as between depressed areas and states such as my own. finally. the senator from illis said aid is available under this amendment when it is  available from other sourcesfrom government sources. such as the small business administration. or from private sources. such as machinery and equipment suppliers. but i say that is a source we should  give up. the success of a project may depend upon whether credit is available on reasonable terms.
i think the senator has sufficient time. or. if he does  i do  wish to use any of the time he may find necessary to take. however. it seems to me. in fairness to the argumentand the senator from illis has been very kind in saying that i am friendly to the bill. which i amthis is a matter involving a narrower fulcrum than merely the question of lending money. it involves the question of lending money for machinery that might be available for other purposes. we are assuming the fact that the money that would be available. on reasonable terms. represents a penalty for us. the small business administration. the banker. or other lender. can make the money available. and it should  be taken away from the money that will otherwise be made available under this bill. it should  be so used. even if it can come from anywhere else. because we defeat ourselves. and defeat those in west virginia. from the ecoic viewpoint. the lenders can look at the purpose of the loan and say. "it is worth making a loan for machinery and equipment." it is  that the money is  available. the point is that the money will be available on reasonable terms. so i think we should leave it that way. then there is the sanction of a banker or a government official. who has looked at it from the ecoic point of view. and has said. "this loan is feasible. let us lend the money for the machinery or equipment."
again. the judgment of the senator from west virginia may be better than my own. i can only advance my best judgment. i say it is wrong because there are different criteria. the very criteria in the bill permit unecoic loans for machinery and equipment. whereas the criteria in the small business act provide for ecoic loans. so i say. surely. if we have to do it. be unecoic in buildings or other facilities. but do  be unecoic when it comes to machinery and equipment. that is precisely my argument. it is why i have submitted the amendment. it is a business reason. i am  living in an abstract world. i have had experience in business. in service on boards. and so forth. there is a business reason for the amendment. there is a different criterion if the money is obtained somewhere else than if it is obtained under the bill.
. i do  think that is right. it is for that reason that i discussed the matter in the committee--although i did  see any point in offering the amendment there. because it was obvious what its fate there would be. and it is likewise for that reason that i  support the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania [mr. scott]. because on that point his -amendment is eminently sound. much has been said about rural development. thirty states  have such projects. the authority for the program exists under the agricultural service extension act of 1955. in addition. the small business administration. in its report. demonstrates that it. too. has helped very materiallyhaving made $95 million of loans. itself. in furtherance of this program. also. it has been widely hailed as an effective and successful program. and i believe that a sum of $50 million is adequate. considering the fact that these areas can qualify  only as rural areas of low income. but also as areas with persistent underemployment. therefore. i hope very much that the scott substitute. which puts this matter before us in a consolidated way. as a comprehensive plan. will be adopted. i think it does precisely what senate bill 1 does. in its practical thrust in this area. and it has the advantage of reducing the size of this rural area fund. which i believe is twice as large as it should be.
madam president. the pioneering spirit of our country is well expressed in the epic story of the crown zellerbach corp.. of san francisco. and its role over nearly 100 years in opening up the west to modern industrial techniques. the history of this outstanding publicly owned company offers a striking example of business in the public interest. its story was the subject of an address before the american newcomen society in new york city. february 16. 1961. at a dinner hoing the corporation and j. d. zellerbach. former u.s. ambassador to italy. and harold l. zellerbach. president of the municipal art commission of san francisco. both high officials of the crown zellerbach corp. and grandsons of the founder. anthony zellerbach. i have been a personal friend of the zellerbach brothers and have worked with them for a quarter of a century. k very well its president. reed hunt. and many in its management. and view its achievements with much gratification. the newcomen society. named for thomas newcomen. famed 17th century british pioneer in the development of the steam engine. is a voluntary association interested in recording and preserving the history of american industrial history and records of corporate organizations that have contributed to the constructive development of natural resources. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record with my remarks excerpts from the address by reed 0. hunt. president of crown zellerbach corp.. entitled "pulp. paper. and pioneers."
 and i should only like to make clear a pointone which i am sure he will understand: i think there is a difference between direct loans and what i propose. a direct loan isas in the veterans situationmade when the money actually moves from the government to the borrowers. my proposal would require that the market accept these bonds. otherwise. money for such loans would be available. i think that makes a very material difference.
oh.  all that the government would do would be to put up $100 million. in order to give such a corporation some capital. it could draw down the capital as soon as the corporation accumulated any. other than that. the corporation would issue the securities to the public. with a government guarantee of the securities.
by individuals or by foundations or by trade union organizations. which could in turn cooperate with those who would occupy the housing. the only thing the u.s. government corporation would do would be to make available the mortgage money.
any corporation which owned a project financed under the proposed plan would  be exempt from the tax specified by the senator. the u.s. government corporation itself. which is the corporation that sells the bonds and gets the money and lends the money to the entities. would be exempt from the tax. and it alone.
 the senator has extended the point. it would be subject to precisely the same tax as a corporation organized for private profit.  deriving its mortgage loan from the u.s. government corporation which i have named. would have been subject to. because if it is a foreign corporation. there are various questions of tax law which are quite apart from the fact that it draws its mortgage money from this corporation.
i will. it would be conducive to unitary sponsorship but to a diverse ownership. in other words. it would be impractical. and it is just as impractical under the 40year. ownpayment plan. when we begin to deal with mortgages which are below the market rate. we get into precisely the same situation. the agency says so. a unitary sponsor is needed who will sponsor the project. it might be called a high rise apartment. that is. a tall building having many apartments. or it might be a collection of separately standing houses. in the first instance. it would be necessary to have a unitary sponsor. then that same facility. that unitary sponsor. could coordinate the units of an apartment house. he could cooperate in the sense of devolving individual ownership upon individual occupants in respect of a project. the difference would be that he could  deal with one family. one home. as is done mally under the fha.  could he feasibly do it under the administrations own program. which we have just decided to keep in the bill. but i think. of course. we should strike it out in favor of this proposal. that is a very important point. it is one of the major arguments made against my plan. it is exactly analogous to the situation which the administration itself faces. one could  conceivably deal with an individual owner or an individual. single family house on a less than market rate. with a 40year. ownpayment mortgage. because it immediately will flow into fnma. as they themselves concede. so there is really difference in the end result in terms of the two plans.
i should like to conclude by summing up the matter as follows: on friday. the senator from alabama . a great friend of housing. and the floor manager of the bill. and i had a colloquy here in the senate chamber. and at that time the senator from alabama said something which i think is rather well recognized in this situation. he said. in effect. "have patience. a senator may have a good idea. but it takes a long time for even a good idea to become law." and he stated. as an example. that for 10 years he had been trying to get enacted into the law the idea behind the small business development corporation. after 10 years the program was legislated. and it is  very well underway. and it promises to be very successful and very important to small business. so i feel the same way about this program. it has been around. and we have tried it for some time. last year. in 1960. i was joined in its sponsorship by a colleague of mine on the other side of the aisle. the senator from pennsylvania . who. quite properly and quite understandably. can join me this time because he feels the administration has come forward with its own program. which he wishes to support. whether as a result of his joining me or . i do  k. but. in any case. the committee actually reported this program as a separate bill last year. toward the close of the session. but it could  be reached in time.
. the plan seeks. first. to allow the commission to transfer any element of its authority to employees of the commission. that is. to delegate any of its functions of whatsoever character to employees of the commission. hearing examiners. or to any board in the commission. secondly. the plan would give the commission the right to review any action taken as a result of such delegation only if one less than a majority of the commission grants such review. that is the second part of the plan. the third part of the plan seeks to transfer to the chairman the functions of the commission with respect to the assignment of commission personnel. including commissioners. to the consideration of such matters as are delegated by the commission. the unique aspect of the sec planand what to my mind makes it absolutely essential that it be rejectedis the fact that it would give the commission the authority to delegate its rulemaking power. i repeat that statement. it would give the commission the authority to delegate its rulemaking power. and it is my fundamental contention in submitting the resolution for the rejection of the plan that when the operations of the commission are coupled with the power to delegate the rulemaking authority. in the particular areas in which the commission needs help by virtue of the authority to delegate. we find the plan to be fatally defective. i agree. and the witnesses agree. that the commission needs some authority to delegate in order to carry the heavy burden of work which it has. but the authority to delegate which it seeks is far narrower than the provisions of the plan. the provisions of the plan would open us to the dangers of delegation which are far worse in their nature than the difficulties which the commission  faces in handling its burden of work. i make that statement for this basic reason: the great problems which. as a practical matter. are encountered by the securities and exchange commission are problems which inhere in the operations of its staff. securities regulation is really a hold on the jugular vein of the nation. in that most industrial and business operations today are carried on by the publiclyowned companies which. in one way or aher. come under the jurisdiction of the securities and exchange commission. in view of the very sensitive nature of the operations in which it is engaged. the slightest breath of concern results in shaking public confidence. and. as investment is entirely based upon public confidence. almost anyone in the commission. even a very subordinate employee. if he is delegated authority in respect of a particular matter. can so disturb the public atmosphere as to ruin or make completely impotent any registration or any effort to sell securities. any refinancing activity. proxy solicitation activity. or other activity which comes under the jurisdiction of the commission. the difficulty with allowing the commission to delegate the rulemaking power is that it would open the door  only to the staff. which. as i said. may  necessarily in and of itself be faulty and may be requiredindeed. i believe such provision is required in order to speed up the work of the commissionbut the danger is that if we allow the commission to delegate  only its mal authority. but also its rulemaking power. we could put it beyond the power of the commission to recapture matters from the staff which ought to be recaptured in the interest of justice and in the interest of the fundamental purposes which are to be served by the sec. we would vest in the staff a far greater power than i believe any staff ought to have. especially in an area as sensitive as this one. in essence. what i have stated is the difficulty which we face in respect of this plan. if the plan could be amended so that we could excise the rulemaking power. i probably would  be here arguing about the plan today. because we could have taken care of that subject in committee. i have little doubtand i am expressing my own point of viewthat the committee would undoubtedly have excised that power on the ground that it really would  serve the major purposes of reorganization which were sought to be effected. but we take or leave the plan as it is. if we should reject the plan. our rejection would be by means fatal. for example. if the debate indicates that the plan is rejected for the reason that it would allow the designation of rulemaking power. the administration can submit aher plan. which again will be subjected to the same procedure. and which we could disapprove or . as we choose. but which would be a perfectly valid reorganization plan. to become effective if we did  act seasonably. also we could enact independent legislation. which has been done before. in respect of perfecting the operations of an agency. we could pass independent legislation which would do precisely what we wanted in a tailormade way with respect to the sec. it is my understanding. for example. that right . in view of the rejection-
in view of the fact that the fcc plan was rejected in the other body. i understand that proposed legislation is  being prepared in order to define precisely what it is desired to do with respect to the fcc. precisely the same thing could be done in regard to the sec. on the question of delegating the rulemaking power. i should like to point out that the statement has been made that very likely the power would  be usedcertainly  in any appreciable way. this point is very important. i call attention in that regard to the fact that the fundamental hearings. the body of hearings on this plan. are  those before the committee on government operations. but are those before a subcommittee of the committee on banking and currency. of which i also happen to be a member. which has legislative oversight over the sec. has considerable acquaintance with the detailed operation of the sec. and therefore conducted the hearings. which are essentially the basic hearings before us on this plan. a copy of which is on every senators desk. this was done by arrangement between the chairman of the committee on banking and currency and the chairman of the committee on government operations. referring to page 20 of the hearings before the committee on banking and currency we find quite a frank statement by the chairman of the commission as to what precisely he intends to do about the rulemaking power. he stated:  of the new york stock exchange of the commission and dean landis themselves had to concede that hing much was going to be done if we gave them the power to delegate. as long as hing was going to be done. we ought to deny it to them. the only way we can deny it to them is by sustaining the resolution rejecting the plan. again i repeat. this would in way prevent or stop the basic idea of allowing the commission to transfer some of its other functions. it is in way affected by denying to them the authority to transfer the rulemaking power. i believe this is a fatal defect of the plan. and it should be rejected. if on that ground alone. there is aher aspect of the plan. in view of the fact that it is the sec which is involved. which justifies. in the case of the sec. the rejection of the plan. because of the unique operations of this agency. and that is the provision of the reorganization plan which would  change. and indeed change drasticallythese are  my words. but the words of the counsel for the commission itselfthe present procedure by  giving anyone who was aggrieved a right to review by the commission as a right. but requiring that reviews of actions by the commission cculd only be taken if one less than a majority of the commissioners gave such a review. or if the commission. acting. i assume. by a majority. took such review on its own motion. i would like to read the words of the counsel of the commission by way of explaining that situation.
. if necessary i have been very much heartened by the senators feeling that this plan should be disapproved. he is on the side of the administration. he would naturally be inclined to favor the administration. i really had desire. myself. in submitting the resolution and undertaking the questioning before the committee. co interfere in any way with what would be the most efficient practice. it was an important confirmation to me that he was trying to arrive at some objective judgment when the senator indicated he was persuaded by what he heard in response to one of the questions asked. what worried me from the very inceptionperhaps it is based upon the fact that i have had so much experience as a practicing lawyer in this field. long before i became a senator or was in public life at allwas the staff question. i have the feeling that in view of the tremendous sweep of the authority given to the commission which could thus be delegated and in view of the operations of the secwhich are so heavily dependent on the functioning of each staff member. and when. as senators k. the staff is dealing with the regulation of private businesses.  with the issuance of a license by a government agency. as in the case of the fcc or similar agencies. and when the least breath of concern or suspicion could be disastrous to such an ecoic situation. and when the staff alone could ruin a private organization or group. merely by calling for additional hearings. and so forth. with the result that the private organization or group concerned would be "licked." because it could  proceed within the time the market would requirewe should therefore. at the least. retain in the sec the rulemaking power. in fact. i thought the final straw was the request that the sec be given the authority to delegate that power. i wonder whether that may have had a strong effect on the position taken by the senator from maine.
madam president. it is regrettable that there are  more senators present in the chamber at this time to deliberate upon this rather important subject. but i am sure other members have work to do which they consider of greater importance than the subject we are  considering. in respect to these reorganization plans. we shall be writing rather interesting legislative history. because although it may be that this plan will be rejected. as was the securities and exchange commission plan. we shall at least be finding the area in which something which needs to be done can be done without running afoul of the dangers which i think are presented by the plan which  is before us. i participated rather actively in the debate on reorganization plan  2. which related to the securities and exchange commission. and it is my understanding that the senate rejected that plan because it was proposed that the commission be given authority to delegate powers which the congress did  wish it to delegate. this is a very important point. and i believe it is the fulcrum upon which our decisions in regard to all of these plans should turn. we are told that we must assume that a delegation of power will be exercised providently and that appointees whose inations the senate has confirmed will  delegate power capriciously or recklessly. so the question is whether we wish to give the commission authority to delegate certain types of authority. i believe we do . and i believe that is why the securities and exchange commision plan was rejected. the types of authority which the congress does  wish to give a commission the power to delegate are essentially the following: first. the rulemaking power. i believe one of the fundamental arguments in connection with the securities and exchange commission plan debate was that the rulemaking power represents the residual control which the commission has over everything under its wings. so to speak. and that even though it might be vexatious to the commission to deal with some of the rulesfor instance. some of the agencies have rules in regard to the size of the paper on which memoranda shall be submittedsuch disadvantages simply do  begin to rate with the advantage to be had by requiring the commission to retain its rulemaking power. in view of the fact that all the work of the commission proceeds under that power. and that. therefore. if the commission retains that power. it retains the core of control over its work. hence. madam president. it is my conviction that plan  4 is fatally defective. if for other reason than the fact that it would give the commission the right to delegate the rulemaking power. which the congress does  believe should be delegated. the second point is in connection with the socalled review procedure. the only way by which the commissions review of a complicated matter may be obtained as a matter of right-
he signed the letter. he is chairman of the committee. i see reason to reach any other conclusion. i think a majority of this body showed. on the previous reorganization plan involving the securities and exchange commission. that we did  want to give a commission the authority to delegate its power. even for prudent use of it. because our intention was that the power granted to it should be exercised only by that commission. i feel that factor inheres in this reorganization plan as well. i think it is a fatal defect. i feel the plan should be rejected for that reason alone. the needs of the commission can be tailored in complete consonance with the intention of the congress in setting up the agency. the senator from new jersey and i have offered a bill with respect to the sec which will do everything that needs to be done without running afoul of these fundamental principles which i have stressed. so i hope the majority of the senate will. as it did with respect to reorganization plan  1. sustain the resolution of rejection
. i wish to associate myself with the remarks which were made on july 31 by a number of senators in tribute to walter b. stults. who served so ably as the staff director of the select committee on small business. in my 5 years as a senator. i have  worked with a more competent committee staff member than walter stults. his record of achievement is remarkable. and his contributions to the select committee on small business. and indeed to small businesses throughout the country. have consistently been effective and constructive. mr. stults meritorious service is a gratifying illustration of federal government working in partnership with and on behalf of the private ecoy. the select committee on small business was an experiment when it was first established in 1950. today it is an integral part of our legislative process in the senate. and i do  k how we could function effectively without it. it is a committee which has helped me time and time again in its capacity as an informed and able proponent of the need for small businesses in our presentday ecoy. the committees efforts have been wholly partisan. as they should be. and small businesses in every state of the union have benefited from the experience. wisdom. and leadership provided by the committee and its staff. credit for the remarkable record which the small business committee has compiled in 10 years must go in large part to the outstanding staff leadership of walter stults. i am grateful to him for it. it is encouraging to k that the senate can attract men of mr. stults ability. he will be sorely missed. but he leaves behind him a record and a habit of effective service which will enable the committee to go forward and do the job in the same tradition which he was so instrumental in establishing.
 of the diebold group. inc.. to a meeting in brussels. belgium. of the leaders of the european ecoic community. john diebolds corporation is an international management consulting company. and mr. diebold has been a major source of new ideas and activities designed to meet the problems accompanying techogical progress. his address delineates the new challenges to management which automation brings. i ask unanimous consent to have these materials inserted in the record at this point.
. i rise only to make the anncement that the committee on banking and currency has reported a bill which will bring about a reorganization of the securities and exchange commission without all the difficulties which caused us to turn down reorganization plan  1 when it was submitted. this again is a tribute to how to do a right thing right. i ask unanimous consent that i may have printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. an analysis of the material differences between the bill reported today and the reorganization plan. and how the bill reported today does the job that needs to be done.
the article relates to the efforts of oregon. ohio. colorado. new york. michigan. pennsylvania. and other states. to develop projects in this field. it refers to the work of the southern illis university and the university of wisconsin. it seems to me that all these efforts. including those in my own state of new york. reveal that children do attend summer school. and it seems to me they indicate that there is a market for what we are talking about.
the senator has stated the situation. i think it can be fairly said that i led the fight on the securities and exchange reorganization plan. and the senate went along with the proposition that it should  be approved. that such action was wise is shown by the fact that we have tailored an authority which is of far less greater magnitude. but which at the same time gives the sec all the power it needs to accelerate its activities. whereas the reorganization plan ran head on into strong opposition from the leading security exchanges. this bill has  aroused any such opposition. from my correspondence and communications with the new york stock exchange and the american stock exchange. i have every reason to believe that they can live with this particular measure so far as the securities and exchange commission is concerned. if members of the senate are interested in the subject and will consult the record of august 24. 1961. at page 16948. they will find spelled out in detail precisely how this bill differs from reorganization plan  1. the three major differences areand they should be restatedthat there is  longer the opportunity in the sec to delegate the rulemaking power. but only delegate the power to make rules of particular applicability. under their practice. even a decision of cases could be brought about by a change in the rule. therefore. that authority can be delegated to a lower echelon below that of the commissioners themselves. what is extremely important is that we have   only reduced the requirement for discretionary review from two members. which was in practical effect half of the commission. because one member has been ill for a long time. to one member. but have provided mandatory right of review. in what the stock exchanges regard as a critical matter. in which the individual or securities firm may go to the commission. these include: first. denial of a request for acceleration of the effective date of a registration statement. second. suspension. denial. or revocation of a brokerdealer registration. third. suspension. denial. or withdrawal of a registration. or suspension or expulsion of a member of a national securities exchange. and. fourth. suspension of trade on an exchange. these are critically important rights. and make mandatory the right of review by the whole commission. i have enjoyed the cooperation of the senator from new jersey. he tried hard to have the reorganization plan adopted. when he did  succeed. he sat down with me and. in a practical way. tried to tailor legislation which would meet the need. . i represent a large security market. in terms of representing the state of new york. and i feel i have a great responsibility in this field. i think all of us realize that the private enterprise system is heavily dependent on the kledge that securities may be sold and traded with the complete confidence of the public. all of us understand that when we deal with the securities and exchange commission. we are  dealing with someone who can guide the investor. take him by the hand and tell him what to invest in. and guarantee him a profit. but it can say that. so far as the commission ks. security issuances are kept free of manipulation and rigging and price fixing. and that the people can rely on the representations which are made. and then make up their own minds as to whether they wish to buy. sell. trade. or acquire new securities. therefore. i hope the senate will feel satisfied with the job. insofar as it ought to be done. as set forth in the bill. and that it will be favorably considered.
i should like to explain to the senator what happened in the committee with respect to the amendment. i must admit i had something to do with the way it  stands. i k the senator is serious about his proposal and will press it. but i think the record ought to be clear as to how this came about. three things were at issue. first. who would initiate the regulations. second. who would approve them. third. who would issue them. one position was taken by the senator from wisconsin and those with him. who wished to make the small business administration a full participant in every one of these functions. then there was a very strong objection by the department of defense and its friends. who felt it was the job of the department of defense to issue procurement regulations. they did  wish to have the small business administration in that picture. they felt it would confuse the procurement officers. and so on. i suggested the formula as a compromise. it comes down to the fact that the small business administration appears in only one phase. only as to the capability for veto. it is somewhat like the question we considered yesterday with respect to the wilderness bill. the small business administration does  have the power to initiate. that remains with the procurement agencies. the small business administration does  have the power to issue. that remains with the procurement agencies. the senator will ice certain language which he did  move to strike. which is contained on page 8 of the bill and which relates to issuance by procurement agencies. the small business administration would have the power of veto. if it found the regulations unsatisfactory in terms of small business. that was a compromise of a difficult situation. with conflicting points of view as among various agencies. i appreciate the senators position. but i must say it seems to me to be a fair compromise and a necessary compromise. in view of the fact that otherwise we can give to small business any real assurance. in view of the bad experience it has had with the major procurement agencies in terms of getting what we consideri think quite fairlyto be an equitable share of the procurement. i think that is the situation.
i rise in opposition to the amendment. i think the amendment raises a fundamental question of policy. which is whether or  we believe that small business can or can contribute to the defense effort. in other words. is small business an anchor around the defense effort or is small business capable of contributing to the defense effort. that is the point  being argued. the argument is being made that we would do small business a favor. that we would carry it on our back because it interferes with the defense effort and we should  permit it to interfere. the argument is made that we should minimize its intrusion into the procurement process. and all business should be concentrated in big business. then we will be sure that we will get everything that we want for defense. that is what the argument comes down to. i come from new york. which has an emous complex of small business. my stateand i think what i am about to say would go for many other statesis suffering from the fact that there has been a tremendous shift of defense contracts from the eastern part of the country to the far western part of the country. i think that we shall be put to even more of a disadvantage if we do  retain the bill in its present form. either small business is capable of doing a job in respect of the defense procurement of the united states. or the senator from alabama . our whole committee and the committee on banking and currency. have been wrong right along. and we are an incubus on the back of the body politic in the ecoy of the united states. that argument will be deeply resented by millions of small businessmen because it is  true. the defense department authorities testified to that point themselves. representatives of the department are always saying how important. how valuable. how good. how efficient small business is. and how much it contributes. but when we come to the paying tellers window of actual participation by the small business administration in the process of procurement. they are turned away. all the fine speeches and all the fine words are meaningless compared to the rollcall. this is where we will vote yea or nay depending on whether we think the small businessman contributes effectively to the defense effort.
i point out to the senator that he might as well tell me in that case that the fbi will  enforce the law. or that the secret service will  protect the president. when it is their sworn duty to do so. what law requires congress to vote appropriations. my friend ks as well as i do that we can sit on our hands and bring the entire government of the united states to an end by  doing our duty. at the same time i would rather have the small business administration. which is bound to carry out the law and the intent of congress with respect to small business. as a party that has to agree. than to turn it over to the department of defense. which would use its own judgment and its own discretion without necessarily a regard to the small business field as to the kind of procurement regulations it will make. in short. the senator is saying that the small business administration is  a coequalequally patriotic and equally deserving in terms of the interest with which it is charged to dealelement of the u.s. government. but that the defense department is superior to it in that regard. i can accept the argument. because that is  what congress provided in the small business act and in the authority of the small business administration.
then congress has absolute authority. and the president has absolute authority to fire the small business administrator on the ground that he would be running directly contrary to his duty. which is to help small business. as i said to the senator previously. it is absolutely inconceivable. we might as well say that we are going to sit on our hands and  vote appropriations. surely we can do so. but would the country let us get away with it. of course . to call on us to come to such a conclusion would call upon us to tax our imagination far more than to consider the possibility that if small business does  get into this process. what will happen will be exactly what has been happening all this time. surely the volume of small business will be going down and down because there will be one looking into the regulations and the processes that look after small business.
i say hing of the kind. i say that he would use his discretion. subject to the paramount authority of the president to fire the secretary of defense or anyone else in the process. in the final analysis. the sanctions which we have and the sanctions the country has lie in the final decision of the president. but we k from the dynamics of departmental operations that a department must participate in the process if we are going to get any particular result for the element of the ecoy that we represent. that is why the committee feels that the small business administration must participate in this program.
if the small business administrator. arbitrarily and contrary to the national interest of the united states. did  approve. he certainly should. that might be true  only of him but also of the secretary of defense and the administrator of the general services administration. we are talking about processes in which various people participate. i do  see the senator from california very much exercised about the fact that the administrator of the general services administration is also supposed to participate in this process. he. too. can be arbitrary. the secretary of defense. too. can be arbitrary.
if it stays there we will have a repetition of the situation which we have had right along. under which small business can get its fair participation. we have tried it time and time again. if the amendment of the senator from texas prevails. it will copperrivet it down and make it tight and make it clear that this is the intent of congress. and that we do  have any special confidence in small business to carry its share of the load in relation to defense procurement.
i have  closely read the communication to which the senator refers. i am  aware of the circumstances under which it was delivered. however. i would like to say that of course the small business administrator can always appeal to the president. that has been their position up to . our position in committee was that it has  worked. we created the small business administration. we created the small business administrator. it is up to us to prescribe his powers and authority. if we think that what he is doing does  work. it is up to us to determine what will work. we believe that the scheme that we want to put forward. coming from the committee. has a much better chance of doing what we want done than what the administrator has done up to . the administrator. when he is suggesting policy. is dealing in a field in which he is  the sole judge. we are. although i have  read the details connected with the letter. i will take the senators word for it. and the letter is entitled to a certain amount of weight. however. it is  decisive. it is for us to say what we want him to do. it is up to us to say what will do most for small business.
in answer to the senator from texas i might say that what we are doing here is dealing with regulations on the small business subcontracting program.  the procurement activities of the defense department. we are dealing precisely with the area of activity which we have entrusted to the small business administrator. therefore. it seems to me very clear that if we want him to do what we expect him to do we must give him more muscle. it has often been said that the small business administration lacks muscle. of course. they have had advisers and they have been sent around to watch the situation and observe and study it and to advise about it. however. they have  had any muscle. this is the first time that we are giving it some muscle with respect to the subcontracting program itself.  with respect to defense procurement. this is a new initiative on the part of congress in an attempt to do something substantively so far as small business participation in defense orders is concerned. we should  be frustrated in doing it by adopting the amendment offered by the senator from texas.
in answer to the senator from iowa. regulations. of course. will have to be issued. they are issued . hing is being done  which will  be in the new set of regulations. it depends on what terms the regulations will carry. that is what we are debating . because of the way in which they shall be approved. the question of promulgation is something the committee debated. the promulgating of regulations is an autoous authority of the governmental departments which do the procuring. so we provide that power to them. the reason i use the word "muscle" is this: certainly. as the senator from utah properly said. if we eliminate what the tower amendment seeks to eliminate. we refrain from giving to the small business administrator any responsibility or any authority to approve. we confine him to the fact that he shall be conferring with these agencies in order to cooperatively administer the program. but if they override him. then he must go to the president. that procedure has been found ineffective up to . on the other hand. if we give him this element of muscle. by which he. too. will become a high contracting party. he. too. will have to give his approval. we will. for the first time. have given small business a real voice in what would be contained in the regulations. there will be duplication of regulations. because they will be regulations which would have to be issued anyhow. the bill will provide that they are to be issued  only by gsa and the department of defense. but also are to be approved by them. if this is without any participation in the approval by the small business administration. so i do  see how we are duplicating or making any more complicated the issuance of regulations than we do whether we adopt the tower amendment or .
i do  believe there is anything in the bill which would limit the procurement capability of the secretary of defense. we are dealing only with the promulgation of a set of regulations. so far as the regulations are concerned. before he promulgated them. he would have to get the approval of his colleague in government. in the executive department. the small business administrator. if he does  like what his colleague is trying to do under the subcontracting program. he can always go to the president. who can overrule them all. this is a technique which has been adopted in foreign aid bills time and again. where there is a cooperative responsibility among the department of state and other agencies of the government. this is the first time. and a very effective time. in which we are trying to introduce the administrator of small business. we are finally trying to give him some muscle. in terms of muscle which he can authorize with respect to other programs and agencies. however. i can see how in any way that would interfere with the department of defense programs and activities once these regulations are adopted. we expressly provided. as was contemplated in the committee. that the department of defense should put its own imprimatur on the regulations. should administer them itself. should interpret them itself. once they get by the regulations stage. they are through the small business administrator. except to the exten. they deal with him  in their effort to get setaside and give people information in terms of the defense program. we are introducing a new element. the element of giving the administrator some say in the regulations which will be promulgated by the department of defense and the general services administration.
i do  think that is the ultimate resort. because we are dealing with a totally different quantity of authority in respect of this bill compared with the analogy which the senator from kentucky gave. the small business administrator is  engaged in the daytoday. monthtomonth program activity of the department of defense. the small business administrator comes into the process only in respect to the regulations. once they have been issued. that is the end of his role. so far as this particular amendment is concerned. so he will  participate in the daytoday or monthtomonth decisionsthe dynamics of the administration of the program or the administration of the department of defense.
the second point. which is very important on its face. is this: where there is given what i call some muscle in respect to this matter. it is being given in respect to the small business subcontracting program. so the worst that could happen if the small business administrator became obstinate or obdurateand the senator from california pointed that outis that he would hurt the interests he is sworn to protect. if he becomes impossible to deal with. he will hurt the small business program more and more. he does  interfere with the general defense program or defense activities of the department of defense on any theory that it can get along without small business. but he would really be cutting off his own e to spite his face. which seems to us to be inconceivable. so. if he did  agree. he would  cripple the department of defense. he would only hurt himself and the agency he was obligated to protect. in the second place. if he did  participate in the dynamics of administration. but participated only in the rulemaking process. once that was launched. it would end his participation in terms of the veto authority. for those reasons. i do  believe that the mal operations of the department of defense would be interfered with.
his recourse. it seems to meand it is very clearly spelled outwould be to go to the president. who is the final arbiter with respect to any conflicts between the executive departments. if the administrator arbitrarily refused to agree. according to my interpretationand the floor manager of the bill is here. and i believe it important that he confirm this statement. if he agreesmy interpretation is that if the small business administrator refused to agree about the small business procurement regulations. then the administrator of general services and the secretary of defense could issue subcontracting regulations of their own. that is the very purpose of the last sentence. because then there would be small business regulations with which their regulations could be inconsistent. so it seems to me that only buttresses our point. which is that we are giving the small business administrator some muscle. but at the same time we are  giving him the ability to tie up the defense department procurement.
and if they refused to accept what the small business administrator was willing to approve. the department of defense could promulgate its own subcontracting regulations. and then there would be hing with which they would be inconsistent.
before any regulations of the small business subcontracting program would become effective. that is the critical qualification. if there is to be a small business subcontracting program. the administrators must agree. if there is  to be a small business subcontracting program. the department of defense will proceed to transact its business in the way it is transacting it . and it could  be stopped by the small business administrator.
this telegram states that the result. if we do  act . will be the expenditure of more money and the quality of the u.s. pavilion will suffer. let every senator ask himself if it will help the united states in the world if the new york worlds fair starts out with a black eye. would there be any comfort or satisfaction to be taken by anyone in such a tragedy. there are many techniques which could be employed in order to bring about action on this measure. but i think it would be demeaning to the city of new york and it would be demeaning indeed to our own body under these circumstances to have to resort to any of them. the new york worlds fair is scheduled to open in april 1964. this gives 31 months for the united states to plan its exhibit. to determine the nature and extent of it. to undertake construction and implementation and representation at the worlds fair. it will cost us more money and it will reduce the quality of what the united states can exhibit if we do  act . it seems to me we certainly have a very clear mandate for action. finally and very importantly. there is a real responsibility which is involved. because whether anybody likes new york or . it seems to me inconceivable. under the present circumstances. that we should hold up the measure without even giving the senate an opportunity to consider it. for the life of me. i can understand why we do  take the pride we should in the greatest and most significant city on earth. when the skyline alone is an inspiration to people all over the world who see it. i have every confidence that we could deal with the problem justly and fairly if the measure were allowed to be brought to the senate. but one of our members has stated. as an article of faith for himself. that he will  allow it to be brought to the senate. that seems to me to be hardly consonant with dignity or our responsibility in this situation. and it does  seem to be fair to the greatest city on earth. the administration has asked for this. this is as important a matter involving the prestige of the administration as it is a matter involving the prestige of the united states. . my colleague and i are keeping our pledge to the letter. that we will  ask the congress for a penny to finance the new york worlds fair. i point out that is very different from what is being done in seattle. we made the pledge. and we intend to keep it. we are  talking about only a u.s. pavilion. i wish to make that clear to the senate and to all of the world. it seems to me pretty small business  to allow the city of new york to go forward in a deliberate and dignified way. as befits its majesty. and with the pride which we all ought to have in the city of new york.
. i send to the desk a resolution which would provide for joint hearings on civil defense shelter proposals. i submit the resolution on my own behalf and on behalf of eight other senators. all of whom are members of the committee on banking and currency. the resolution calls for joint hearings by the senate committee on banking and currency and the committee on armed services. the other sponsors of the resolution are the senator from alabama . the senator from wisconsin . the senator from utah . the senator from illis . the senator from pennsylvania . the senator from texas . the senator from new jersey . and the senator from missouri . my cosponsors and i may have differing views as to what ought to be done about civil defense shelters. but we are of one mind as to the fact that when hearings are held. in order to give the country and ourselves the necessary information and to insure full consideration of the merits of the proposals for a largescale federal fallout shelter program. they should be joint hearings by the committee on banking and currency and the committee on armed services. both of which committees have appropriate jurisdiction. the first in the field of federal housing. urban renewal. community facilities. and all of its other aspects. the second in the field of national defense. in our opinion we ought to move further in the direction of the efficiency and the lack of duplication of effort which would result from such joint hearings. so the resolution would authorize and direct both committees to conduct joint hearings upon this subject and to report to the senate their findings during the present session with recommendations for legislation. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution itself may be printed at this point in my remarks.
. i wish to comment on the senators speech. which i have had the great ho of reading in its entirety. first. the address is typically thoughtful of my own committee chairman. of the committee on banking and currency. secondly. it will be of invaluable help to the state of new york. to the city of new york. and to the people of new york. as well as to the people of the nation. who are deeply interested in having hamilton grange. which was alexander hamiltons last home. established as a national monument. my colleague. the senator from new york . and i have joined in sponsorship of the joint resolution. senate joint resolution 29. i have been working on it very hard. it has been reported to the senate and is calendar  1196. the very learned and indeed moving analysis of hamiltons meaning to our nation by the senator from virginia is  only a great document in itself. historically and patriotically. but also. i believeand for this i express gratitude to the senatorit will help us materially in bringing hamilton grange into being as a national monument. as i say. the joint resolution is on the calendar as calendar  1196. i hope it will be favorably acted on in this body. as well as in the other body.
. i have the ho to be associated with senator bush on the joint ecoic committee. he has brought to the work of that committee. which is so deeply influential in respect to the ecoics of our country. as well as its foreign ecoic policy. a kledge of the workings of the banking and credit system of the world which i think is practically unique in this chamber. the senate has the great advantage of having eminent men of distinguished minds with particular talents and experience. his is such a unique talent. as to which he has been so thoroughly schooled and trained. and he has such objectivity that it has been most impressive to me and tremendously helpful to the country. the counsel and the views of prescott bush in the senate will be greatly missed. in my view. he is an outstanding senator. a wonderful human being. and a great friend. i only hope that he may choose to use some of his leisure to continue to give the country. even in a private capacity. the benefit of his high patriotism. his fine mind. and his high character.
 harold f. linder. i refer to the recent development by the bank. in an attempt to stimulate greater participation of commercial banks in the business of the exportimport bank. of a portfolio fund. which permits commercial banks to invest in the program and thereby reduce the amount of treasury borrowing by the exportimport bank. the portfolio fund consists of a pool of maturities falling due over the next 10 years. during april the bank invited the more than 70 commercial banks in the united states which had previously joined in the banks financing operations. to purchase certificates representing interests in the fund. the certificates bear annual interest at the rate of 4 percent. and the initial offering was in the amount of $250 million. it is extremely gratifying for those of us who are convinced of the private enterprise potential of this nation that the offering was oversubscribed three times. a total of $300 million in certificates was in fact issued. this is indeed a striking demonstration of the confidence of the commercial banking community in the banks program and in the great export potential of the united states. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record the exportimport banks anncement.
. our ecoy is moving too slowly. still. it appears to be on a sound footing. however. the stock market has in the last 10 years risen 5 times faster than corporate profits. 31/2 times faster than industrial production. and more than twice as fast as personal income and gross national product. reasonable expectations of future growth can outstrip current realities by such multiples. that. too. is a cause of the present readjustment.
that was the amendment as originally submitted. there seems to be a strong feeling on the part of a proponent of the foreign relations committee that these declarations of policy which we have made time and again should etheless be held to a minimum and that we should leave much more than they would do to the discretion. wisdom. and good intentions of the president and the state department. while we disagree with that idea. etheless we have respect for the views of our colleagues on the committee on foreign relations. we would really like to see some progress made. therefore we have come to the conclusion that a minimal. rather than a maximum. amendment would be in order. so the minimal amendment is the one which we have joined in submitting. the amendment would add to the declaration of policy  contained in section 102. the requirement of an annual report. so by the addition of a clause. which is the subject of the amendment  before the senate. to that section of the foreign assistance act which we are amending. which deals with reports. that is. section 634(a). we would require at least a report of progress. we will at least have an official way to see what is actually being done about the problem. i can help but emphasize what a sad situation we are in with. for example. president nasser. whose aid we have proposed to increase very materially. he has the brazenness to insist that he will  accept our aid unless we keep israel out of association with the european common market. a common market which. incidentally. will mean life or death for israel in terms of its own exports and imports. he gives evidence whatever of recognizing what many thought was a military commitment as far as israel. the united kingdom and france were concerned. after the abortive attempt in 1956. that there would be free transit through the suez canal as a condition for the israel forces moving out of the sinai peninsula. hing has happened. in short. it seems to me that we have to get our backs up somewhere. in the present situation we have  really taken the determined stand that we should. certainly it is  very encouraging that an increase. rather than a denial. of aid is being considered as far as the united arab republic is concerned. so taking account of the realities--and we do face hard realities. as everyone kswe feel that acting together. at least we would add something to the situation in requiring an official annual report. in addition. the provisions of the amendment would result in showing some evidence of the senates view upon the subject. it would reveal our dissatisfaction with the existing situation. the senates views would also be before the conferees if the other body adopts the stronger provision which is before them through the report of their committee on foreign affairs. and the issue goes to conference.
 to succeed. and i offer these suggestions. based upon my work in the senate and also upon a fair kledge of the greatest financial market in the worldthat in new york city. i regard the steps i have suggested as absolutely indispensable in order to assure the ecoic progress of the country.
i wonder whether the senator from virginia can give us some idea as to when the committee will hold hearings on the matters referred to. including an amendment which i shall offer in connection with amendment of the antitrust laws in such a way as. in my judgment. to affect the capability of the united states to meet the oil offensive  being waged by the soviet union on the continent of europe. can the senator from virginia give us some fairly clear idea as to when it is expected the hearings will be heldbecause the summer is upon us. and we may be running into the problem of adjournment. and so forth.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from illis . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to authorize the federal deposit insurance corpora.tion to extend insurance to deposits in u.s. branches of foreign banks. the bill could have a very favorable effect upon our international trade relations and balance of payments by attracting foreign deposits within the united states while at the same time affording a basis for reciprocal benefits to be given to u.s. banks abroad. for these reasons the banking community in new york state in 1960 sponsored legislation which authorizes foreign bank branches to do business within the state. the present bill would permit the fdic to insure deposits in foreign bank branches when the states so authorize them to carry on banking activities. it should be ed that the branches would be required to meet the standards of both state banking law and the federal deposit insurance act. and the fdic would  be required to extend insurance but would only be authorized to do so when in its judgment the criteria set out in the act have been met. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point in my remarks a memorandum explaining the bill in greater detail.
i was one of the conferees. and the senator from wisconsin has graciously commented upon my own suggestion. which. formalized. the conferees adopted as section 2(d). but i think the legislative history must be complete. i. too. wish to dissociate myself from any idea that this represents an antibusiness or antiworkman policy by our government. i think we will gain far more than we will lose in terms of employment and in terms of vitality and profit of the american ecoy. if we adopt a more liberal trade policy. we must do so. or we shall be terribly injured by what is happening in europe. it should be made clear that this is proposed standby legislation as it relates to the trade expansion act. there is assurance whatever that the trade expansion act. when it leaves the senate. comes from the conference committee. and is signed by the president. will contain any provision with relation to the small business administration. or any relationship to it. ody ks. as we adopt the conference report. i think the legislative history must show that the president is  to be formally bound to put this provision into effect. the president is to be bound to put the section in effect as a relevant section to the trade expansion act to the extent to which it is relevant. the president will specify that in his proclamation. as we k. we request the president to do so in 60 days. we k that matter how tough the language may be in the section. the president can be mandated by the congress. this would  take effect unless and until the president ordered it by proclamation. this is important. because it is a compromise by the conference committee. to give such authority to the president. in view of the fact that there are problems related to the small business administration and the department of commerce and we did  k how to reach them ultimately. we seek to provide for a standby statute. giving to the president the authority to time and shape it according to the ultimate trade expansion legislation. otherwise we would be left to drift. as the senator from indiana [ with a limited discretion. but etheless a discretion. to shape and to use this section with the ultimate trade expansion law. and to time it when he issues the proclamation.
the senator is properly stating the reported reason for the holdup of this report. as referred to in the new york times today. however. in the implementation of any activity under a report companies may immediately run afoul of the antitrust laws. i was merely pointing out that this is a twostage operation. the senator has properly dealt with the conflictofinterest stage. which. incidentally. we have considered to some extent in the national policy subcommittee of the committee on government operations. as one hard nut that faces us. i was also pointing to a problem which is a corollary problem and is being considered by aher committee of the senate.
i wish to say to my colleague. with respect to the antitrust laws. i think the antitrust laws and the antitrust policies are one of the most critical determinants of ecoic movement forward in tlis country today. i do  think my colleague ought to dismiss the european experience quite so lightly. let us remember that the most spectacular advance in the postwar years has been in europe. europe was devastated by two world wars. but we were . we can easily understand the relative lethargy. industrially. of europe. certainly the tremendous thrust forward of europe since world war ii is some evidence of the fact that a nation does  need our kind of antitrust laws in order to have ecoic health and activity. beyond that. the pressure of our world position is making our antitrust laws really archaic. let me give the senator only two examples. again i apologize for delaying any of our colleagues who want the floor. one example is the oil business. in respect to which there is really a very grave fear that the communist activity. which  supplies 9 percent of europes oiland in some countries could become an indispensable element of the operation. so as to give the communists a real grip on the throat of industrial activity in a particular countrycould be very much better dealt with if we had a different concept of antitrust laws. today we have extracted from the defense production act even that section which gave to the attorney general the authority to allow some kind of combination when it was needed in the national interest. that is out of the law. i have been trying to put it back in. as the senator ks from our work on the committee on banking and currency. the second aspect of the antitrust laws which is so important is this: everybody agrees that private enterprise must be brought into the newly developing areas. in order to divide the risk. the consortium idea is the best idea that anybody has ever thought of. that was done with brilliant success by international agencies with very little industrial participationbut somein india and turkey. here. again. is an area in which business constantly runs afoul of the antitrust laws. in the field of ecoic warfare and the development of underdeveloped areas. the antitrust laws. as presently administered. are archaic. what i have said is  in criticism of administrations. business felt that the brownell administration and the rogers administration were fully as tough on them as is the kennedy administration and the loevinger administration. i am  standing hereand i k the senator is as an apologist for business to secure for business relief from the antitrust laws. all i say is that as the antitrust laws are handled today. there is  a positive aspect to them. they hurt small business. they hurt our ecoic warfare activities. they hurt our development of the newly developing areas of the world. we must have some new antitrust policy which is consonant with the modern day. of all the possible contributions to our ecoic life. aside from the question of national strikes. which i think is critically important. i believe that problems related to the antitrust laws are more important than anything else. including a tax cut
. that is  the way we ought to legislate. the other body may  take what we present. so much to its credit if it does  like an amendment. that does  mean we should prostitute our own judgments as to what we should put in or refrain from putting into a bill. i thoroughly agree with my colleague . there are some provisions of the bill which should be amended. and urgently need to be amended. one is desirous of bringing about a giveaway. my reputation and standing in the senate and in the country would indicate it would be as distasteful to me to be a party to a giveaway as it would be to any of the liberals who are contending in respect to the public ownership features of the bill. but i happen to feel. as do others who are liberal and those who are contending for public ownership. that a mixed governmentbusiness corporation organized to develop the proposed operation would be an extremely useful. interesting. and worthwhile technique. that does  mean that the bill is sacrosanct and should  be amended in any respect or in any manner in framing and developing a governmentbusiness enterprise. in which i thoroughly believe. i think it is a fine thing. i think that is the direction in which business will have to go more and more in the future. the measure is a good program to bring it about. it would be helpful in the proposed system. whatever one may say about the a.t. & t.. i am  for "buttering it up" any more than anybody else. but the fact is that in the presence of the two space ships that the russians have in the atmosphere today. the only counterpropaganda we have is telstar. so let us  merely pass off private enterprise as being immaterial. improper. and hing but a giveaway. it is capable of great accomplishment. let us use it. in defining the bill we must pay the strictest attention to its implications in terms of our foreign policy. and the fact that it is a national trust. we must remember that billions of dollars. prestige. and resources are involved in the proposed development. so i. for one. wish to pass upon the amendments one by one. voting for those that are good and voting against those that are bad. and  merely striking them all down on the guillotine of a motion to table.
madam president. if the senate will give me its attention. i shall complete everything i have to say in about 5 minutes. in a colloquy with the distinguished senator from alabama . who is the senator in charge of the bill for the committee which last reported it. the committee on foreign relations. madam president the purpose of the amendment is to make it crystal clear that the president of the united states shall be the final authority in respect of any matter which concerns "the national interest and foreign policy of the united states" in international negotiations. even if those particular negotiations may be construed by the corporation organized under the act to be a matter of "business negotiations." those words i have used. madam president. are words of art. the words "business negotiations" are found in section 402. and the words "the national interest and foreign policy of the united states" are found in section 201(a) (4). madam president. i k there was considerable debate about this question when the amendment offered by the senator from tennessee [ is given the power to "exercise such supervision over relationships of the corporation with foreign governments or entities or with international bodies as may be appropriate to assure that such relationships shall be consistent with the national interest and foreign policy of the united states."
 yet. would the senator allow me to finish my thought. however. when dealing with "business negotiations." in section 402. provision is made for "whenever the corporation shall enter into business negotiations" the corporation shall keep the department of state advised and the department of state. it is to be assumed. may render such assistance as may be necessary or appropriate. as the language provides. or demur. it is  clear from the wording that if the president believes the "business negotiations" will be . as the company might think. "business negotiations" but relationships with foreign governments of the kind described in section 201 (a) (4). he may assert his authority. and thereupon he shall have direct authority in those negotiations as if section 201(a) (4) were the section under which the negotiations were taking place. to clarify that. madam president. we really do  need an amendment if the legislative history is very clear on the subject. therefore. if the senator will allow me. i should like to complete my statement i should like to address a question to the senator from alabama. the senator in charge of the bill on behalf of the committee on foreign relations.
madam president is it the intention of the committee that section 402 of the bill is subject to and limited by section 201(a) (4). so that whether or  the corporation seeks the assistance of the department of state under section 402 even in "business negotiations" it is the president who will have the power to determine when and under what circumstances "business negotiations" involve "the national interest and foreign policy of the united states." so as to warrant his intervention under section 201 (a) (4).
. the editorial es that "specific suggestions from congressional and industry quarters on how to arm the united states for imminent oil combat have  been treated with any urgency." i have pressed for at least a congressional inquiry into one approach to the soviet oil offensive through my amendment to section 708 of the defense production act. which would restore to its pre1955 status the authority of the attorney general to exempt from the antitrust laws cooperative action in furtherance of the purposes of the government under the act. the distinguished chairman of the banking and currency committee has opened this question to hearings. which have begun but have  yet been completed. i would hope that the kind of urgency to which the editorial refers would be communicated to the committee by those in industry and government who are aware of the problem. a concrete opportunity is  being presented for the congress to consider techniques for dealing with the problem. the national interest can afford to let that opportunity pass as it is very likely to do unless greater interest is expressed in these hearings.
it was the same general idea. however. what has happened is that those institutions have become very large thrift institutions. competing with mutual savings banks and with each other. the senator may have iced in the press that there has been great competition for deposits by savings and loan associations.
in maryland and in california. they give depositors more interest to attract deposits to their institutions. there has been a development of that character. that is. they have become competing thrift associations with banks and with other savings and loan associations. second. the market for loans has naturally changed from almost exclusively the private house. which was its original purpose. or the small two-. three-. or fourfamily house. to the multifamily dwelling. naturally as these institutions have attracted more assets they have had more loaning power. i should like to add one other fact which has  been mentioned. every savings and loan institution that is a state savings and loan institution is under state control and under the state jurisdiction of its banking superintendent. the federal savings and loan institutions are under federal control and federal inspection. that applies to both federal and state because it relates to taxes. we can reach them through income taxes. people have come to us and to senators from other statesfor example. to the senators from maryland . the senators from delaware . or the senators from other eastern statesand have pointed out that under our rather lower interest rate situations-
i share the senators view. i do  care whether he will let this amendment go through tonight or . although i am interested in the amendment. if the senator has any disquietude about it. i do  wish to talk him out of it. i point out to him that the difficulty with the senators position is that if we want to have competition for the thrift dollar. which encourages thriftand the savings and loan associations are very fine competitors and they are very keen in attracting depositorsif we are to let them stay in businessand they are adversely affected if the bill goes through. i say to the senatorthen we are supplementing the pool of money which is available of 64 percent of their lending power. let us take the senators figure. although it is  true. let us  be myopic. though. let us look at that percentage. but let us also look at the fact that the 64 percent is to be devoted to one- and fourfamily house loans. the situation is one in which we either encourage and help these kinds of outfits to stay in businessand the fact is that they are competing for the thrift dollar just as mutual savings banks areor we make it difficult for them to stay in business. what the senator is talking about has already happened. it is  happening because of the bill. the eastern companies are very largely mutual companies. but there are some statescalifornia is one of themin which it is possible to have building and loan stock companies.
the argument is that the competitive areain the present case the european common marketis  a single country. it is the whole european common market area. therefore. we would be materially disadvantaged in the european common market area if we were to visit the consequences of the new tax scheme upon corporations operating within that area merely because they must engage in selling in the various countries of that area which fall under the new provisions of the bill. that is what my amendment is designed to avoid. if at all possible.
i should like to ask the senator a question. because he has just rendered a signal service to the city of new york and to our metropolitan community as a whole in undertaking this great responsibility. which we feel he has carried off very well indeed. i e also that aher strike is pending in the new york area. namely. a strike against the newspapers. it deeply affects all of us. and some feel that eventually that strike may have to be submitted to a similar method of settlement. i should like to ask the senator from oregon whether he feels. from his experience with this kind of mediation proceduregenerally it is thought that in a mediation one sits down with the parties and have them get together. but do  find facts and make recommendations. as this board didin other words. does the senator feel that this technique can be very useful in solving the problems plaguing the country. and can materially help in similar situations. in place of the proposal of some persons. for drastic arbitration or compulsory arbitration. or the application of antitrust laws to labor. which i do  favor. from the senators experience. can he lift his gaze. so to speak. to his senatorial duties. and tell us whether he believes that these techniques can be employed in similar disputes.
 kennedy ap-. pointed a consumers advisory council. somewhat along the lines of a promise he made during the 1960 campaign. at that time i placed in the record a new york times editorial stating that the appointment of the advisory committee while laudable could express only a pro forma interest in consumer problems. only a committee in each house of congress could represent significantly the fact that ours is a consumers ecoy. legislation handled by a variety of standing committees affects the interests of consumers in. for example. consumer frauds. quality. prices and productivity. yet there is single forum in which the consumers interest in all such legislation cix294 can be adequately taken into consideration in a comprehensive way. just as the small business committee represents comprehensively the problems of the small business community. hing has come to my attention since the creation of the advisory committee to change my view that a congressional committee is vitally needed. i strongly urge the administration to take the same view and support this measure.
. i should like to join my colleague in what he has said about the company at olean. n.y.. mr. easley. who has been an absolutely remarkable union leader in that regard. the town. the town people. and the managers of this company. which has been a model for small business in the united states in its intrepidity and determination to drive hard for a constructive ecoic measure for olean. i have been there. i have seen the plant. i have seen the workers. i have addressed them. as i am sure my colleague has. this action is a great source of gratification to me. as it is to my colleague. we extend to them  only our felicitations for their tremendous courage. but our help and cooperation. which we have already given. and which i k we will give in any measure that is humanly posible to help in such fine determination as they have shown.
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senior senator from indiana [mr. har=sez may be added as a cosponsor of s. 1255. for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states which i introduced on april 2. 1963.
if the senator will allow me. i was using that term in its colloquial sense and  in any sense of trying to qualify them as a matter of law as government directors. i was expressing only my view that. being appointed by the president. as i see it. once the corporation gets going and is publicly financed. they will have a unique position. and this will be such a unique quality of appointment as to make the corporation in terms of those serving as directors different from mal. publicly financed corporations. that is precisely what i had in mind. only in that sense did i use the term.
it seems to me that the senator has himself used the words "government directors" in the negative colloquially . by asking me whether i was aware of the fact that the attorney general had given an opinion that they were  in fact government directors. because they had responsibility to the stockholders. i say to the senator that i was using the term "government directors" in a colloquial sense. as i understood it. to express my view of a unique character of appointment. and therefore of a unique character which. in my viewi am  asking the senator to espouse my viewthis corporation would have. that was all i intended. i have  read the opinion of the attorney general. i shall read it with great interest. i hope very much. before i vote upon the question of the confirmation of the inations. to read the hearings and also to read carefully the debate to which i can listenif it turns out that i canwith respect to what is said on the floor by the proponents of the position that the inations of the incorporators should  be confirmed. and also. as i understand. their legal position that confirmation is required under the circumstances.
i do  want to say yes or and prejudice the legal conception. i made the statement. as a lawyer. that. the law. having been enacted. the inations should be confirmed. and that the senate should confirm them. i believe they are excellent directors. so far as i can see. unless there is something in the case which i do  see as yet. i shall vote to confirm the inations. i hope to examine the subject more thoroughly later. but i say what i said before. that it is. in my judgment. in the nature of a mixed corporation. something which is  the mal. publicly financed corporation. but which does have some special aspect in that a certain number of directors will be specially appointed. rather than elected in the usual way. by stockholders. despite the fact that the attorney general says that the directors. even if so designated. have precisely the same responsibility as stockholders and ordinary directors elected in the usual way. which i have doubt is so. in terms of public policy. the appointment of these directors by the president gives an important aspect to this corporation which other corporations. publicly financed. do  have. that was my point.
. on april 2 i introduced. along with senators cooper and hartke. s. 1255. which would establish a commission to revise the antitrust laws. along the lines of the temporary national ecoic commission of the 1940s. in my introductory remarks. i mentioned a number of instances in which the need for comprehensive review of the antitrust laws. in my judgment. has been most clearly demonstrated. since introducing the bill. i have received a number of favorable comments from constituents who have provided additional evidence of how much this body of law needs to be reevaluated in the light of our nations rapidly changing ecoic environment. a clear case of the inadequacy of the antitrust laws as  defined and administered was presented by the advisory opinion of the federal trade commission on april 5. 1963. to the effect that it would be a violation of the antitrust laws for independent druggists to advertise cooperatively if prices were mentioned in the advertisement. this cooperative advertising is generally carried through to give small retailers some ratability of treatment with large retailers under the robinsonpatman act. so that they can pool their advertising allowances. which would be tiny if individual. but adequate if pooled. the federal trade commission. in its advisory opinion. says. "you must  mention price." of course. as anyone who has read drug ads ks. these ads are meaningless unless prices are mentioned. while the commissioners clearly recognized that the practice of cooperative advertising of prices is of vital importance to small businessmen and that the antitrust laws were designed to protect and encourage small business competition. yet the majority of the commission felt constrained to advise that the antitrust laws were simply inadequate for this purpose and would be contravened .by the practice. this advisory opinion also demonstrates. apart from the uncertainty and inadequacy of the existing substantive law. how inadequate the existing procedural remedies are in this field. although they were empowered to give an advisory opinion. the commissioners could  bind themselves. the department of justice. or the courts by their opinion. and therefore the businessman could  rely on the opinion ashe could. for example. on a tax ruling by the internal revenue service. in acting upon the facts he has stated in his request for a ruling. as a result the substantive law itself is distorted as can be seen in two of the. commissioners statements: they state that they advise that the proposed cooperative advertising would be in violation of the antitrust laws because they want to avoid misleading businessmen to their detriment in a situation of uncertainty under the law. in this way the law becomes certain. but it does so in a way which does  reflect the commissioners view of the merits of the case and in a way which is of only negative use to the businessman. under present circumstances it makes sense to request an advisory opinion only where the businessman is sure of a favorable ruling. because where the law is uncertain. which is the most appropriate occasion for an advisory opinion in advance of action. the commission will feel constrained to give the most conservative ruling in order to protect the businessman from future enforcement activity against him. and in the process of doing so the commission then makes the law certainand negative. in my view this is fault of the commissions but of the law. in this case both substantively and procedurely. i e that today the justice department in reply to a senatoral inquiry stated a view contrary to that of the majority of the ftcwhich only emphasizes the confusion and uncertainty under the law. . i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in my remarks the three statements and one dissenting statement of the federal trade commissioners in this case.
i consider it a great ho to join the distinguished senator from maryland. who also served on so important a matter in the other body. in sponsoring the bill. i believe it needs to be emphasized almost continuously that american business runs up against the buzz saw of antitrust law which in many respects are obsolescent. they urgently need review in the interest of enabling private business to really do the job for our country here and abroad which is needed to be done. if we need an example. there is the recent advisory ruling of the federal trade commission which prevents druggists. for example. from pooling their advertising allowances in order to advertise a product. because. the commission advises. the advertisement mentions a price. whereas that is the only way that they can compete with the big drug chains. the basis for the ruling. of course. is the antitrust laws. which urgently need review. it is about 20 years since the last time this job was done. therefore i consider it a very fine thing that the senator from maryland should join with me in this effort.
 de gaulle is afraid of. let him strengthen the common market and  weaken it. i sincerely hope that this disunity in the eec is but a sign of growing pains and of internal adjustments. and that in the end. the longrange interests of the western world will prevail over european parochialism. nato. oecd. gatt. the u.n.. have been created over the years to increase western unity. let us. as equal partners in this struggle against communist expansion. sit down in these councils and discuss our differences. out of the forthcoming talks on may 16. and the others that are sure to follow. may emerge the exciting prospect that the developed nations of the west. in partnership with the developing nations of the free world. have the power to build a new world order which will contribute to the everlasting peace. security. prosperity. and freedom of man. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record three articles dealing with the forthcoming geneva negotiations. one article which appeared in the may 16 issue of the wall street journal is entitled "focus on gatt." the second. entitled "french add snag to tariff cutting." appeared on may 1 in the new york times. the third. which also appeared on may 1. is from the wall street journal entitled "united states. common market still disagree on way to cut world tariffs." the three articles put a sharp focus on the complexities and problems facing the united states on the eve of the coming talks.
in the first place. i wish to associate myself with the viewpoint of the committee chairman. namely. that this bill represents the best of the alternatives of choice. my distinguished and very perceptive colleague from rhode island has already pointed out the fact that it would cost us more in our balance of payments if we did  do it this way than if we did. the whole problem points up the lack of resources in terms of metal to back currency. already there is a shortage in silver. the key point of the problem is that world production is 250 million ounces. and world consumption is 350 million ounces. we can let the monetary needs on top of the industrial demand jack up the price. the same thing applies to gold. the mining of new gold is insufficient to sustain the worlds credit structure. hence. we have been engaged in a search for alternatives. i make the point because i do  think the record should stand denuded of any observation with respect to the concern expressed that the demands upon us by the central banks of the world represent a sword of damocles over our head. they do . because bank has egh cash in its vaults to pay all its deposits.  does the united states. but it does have a fine credit standing. but. to protect us against a run. we  have a new safeguard. gold is insufficient. there is  egh gold. we have a new safeguard in the new $6 billion credit agreement negotiated by the international monetary fund. which will be available in the event there is a pinch in credit with respect to the european countries. that is a critically important point to understand with respect to the statement that we are threatened with insolvency because of the demands which other central banks may make on us. furthermore. i think the treasury regards this particular measure as one of the most important we shall have before us this year. the chairman of the committee has shown extraordinarily fine leadership in bringing this measure before the senate. and in giving support to it. i hope the senate will do likewise.
. i am very grateful to my colleague. as is true with respect to so many issues before congress. when a great reform is considered. there are always many who contribute parts of it who have had an interest for many years in the basic problem. i have chosen a particular role in respect to this problem. we are all familiar with the role of the senator from tennessee . we all admire and respect him for the great work he has done in the consumers field. without regard to agreement or disagreement on certain practical phases. he is continuing to carry out. in his statement and the measures which he is putting before the senate today. the principles in which he believes. i. too. have tried to draw an analogy between the small business committee and the need for having some consumer representation in the congress. for some time i have sponsored a measure to provide for a select committee on consumers in the senate. i have been joined on the bill. senate resolution 116. by the senator from kentucky . my colleague from new york . the senator from vermont . and the senator from pennsylvania . at this time. to make the measure bipartisan. symbolic of the way in which the senator from tennessee has presided. i ask unanimous consent to have added as additional cosponsors the senator from oregon . the senator from new jersey . the senator from illis . the senator from new hampshire . and the distinguished senator from tennessee .
. on april 2 i introduced. along with senators cooper and hartke. s. 1255. a bill for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states. an article by joseph d. mathewson in the wall street journal on may 2. 1963. points up the need for such revision from the point of view of extraterritorial application of the antitrust laws. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed at this point in the record.
in a speech before the u.s. chamber of commerce on april 30. 1963. prof. milton handler. of columbia university law school. strongly endorsed this bill in a discussion of the desirability of revision of antitrust law in the domestic sphere. emphasizing the role of the small businessman. while i do  necessarily endorse all of professor handlers specifics and conclusions. i certainly feel his cogent criticism of the present state of the law and its enforcement indicates the need for clarification and reform and it is a valuable reference work for the information of the senate. . i ask unanimous consent that the following excerpts from mr. handlers speech be inserted in the record at this point.
it certainly is a possibility. banker in his right mind would say that that is  a possibility. we are the banker for the world. however. the gold base which we have is adequate for the time being. especially in view of our control as to how much of it will be committed as backing for our currency. the congress can take action in that regard in a minute. in view of the fact that. as a country. we are international bankers to the world. we must recognize both the risks and the advantages of banking. bank could pay all of its depositors in cash on demand. therefore. the big missing ingredient is. "will the central banks of our principal creditors have any reason to make such a request." what i have been dealing withand what i am sure is implicit in the senators questionis that we should present a posture to the world in which this would be unreasonable. arbitrary. hostile. and would represent prudent exercise of discretion on the part of any bank in the world. we must keep ourselves in that position. so long as we are the worlds banker.
first. let me thank the senator for cosponsoring the resolution. his name appears on it. i welcome him as a sponsor of the resolution. what the senator has said is true. it is strange and aalous that at one and the same time the central banks of european countries. countries which have greatly benefited from the marshall plan. including the revival of their ecoies. and making possible the ecoic integration of western europeall of which i favor. but which we made possible stand off with their demands which can theoretically put us in bankruptcy. and do  give any recognition to the fact that even relatively mi aid could lift some of the burden from our backs and would help very materially in dealing with the situation. as the senator from iowa so very properly said. it is in the effort to dramatize this problem. in the hard reality of dollars and cents. that i think an international ecoic conference would be very helpful. i agree with the senator on that score.
there is question about that. i believe that when we project the banking and financial position we are approaching. the people would be most unhappy to find the united states compelled to be in that position. we are the banking and financial leader. and there is substitute. i think the people in the european countries concerned will realize that the base upon which they have built their postwar prosperity would be undermined and swept away if the concrete base of the u.s. dollar and the strong banking support which it represents were necessarily withdrawn. therefore. i believe that this is the way to pose this problem most effectively to the worldthat we may  have any choice in taking drastic action unless we get help promptly. 0
i made the point that i thought. the administration had done a rather good job in terms of the question of costs and the question of wage and price stability. i wish it had done as good a job in other respects. one of the main things in connection with which. as chairman of our joint ecoic committee. the senator could himself be most important is to underscore the fact that we should  be quite as afraid of our own situation as we seem to be. we are told. for example. privately. but the public should k it. that when our banking authorities and our treasury representatives sit down with the banking authorities and treasury representatives of other countries. and point out to them what it is costing us as a nation to be the banker for the world. our foreign friends say. "well. it is just too bad. you are the banker. you are stuck with the job. if you have to go into a program of domestic austerity. that is your responsibility." i do  believe our people are as willing as i think it may become necessary. if we found ourselves in this position. to say. "all right. let us decide that there are going to be capital flotations for foreign corporations or governments in our country. we can stand it. our balance of payments can stand it." we must be prepared for such an eventuality. we must be prepared  to continue to talk until our situation deteriorates and we reach the point where we are forced to adopt domestic austerity.
. i would like to call to the senates attention this morning the fact that yesterday the securities and exchange commission filed with the congress the very important second segment of the report of the special study of the securities markets on the adequacies of investor protection in the securities markets. the first segment of the report was filed on april 3. 1963. pursuant to a congressional mandate. and it is expected that the final segment will be submitted to the congress shortly. i ask unanimous consent that the summary of this study. as contained in the new york times. as well as editorials in the new york times and the new york herald tribune. may be made a part of my remarks.
. i point out that the study shows we have strong institutions for trading in securities and. on the whole. they are doing their job well. but there are a few weaknesses. as shown by the study. in trading in overthecounter accounts and in activities of specialists and traders for their own accounts which will require consideration. moreover. it must be remembered that the sec endorses the "general soundness" of this part of the report but has  endorsed specifically each finding or proposal. i give this pledge to the securities industry: the hearings before the subcommittee on securities. of which i am the senior republican. of the committee on banking and currency on the secs recommendations based on the first part of the study report. and the legislation which will be coming to the floor. reflect a remarkable degree of unanimity and a very prudent and balanced point of view on the part of both the industry and the securities and exchange commission. chairman cary. in sending the second segment of the special study report to the congress. states that the recommendations for a solution to the problems described in this part of the report can be effected without legislation. through the medium of the rulemaking power of the sec. with the exception of controls over operators of "quotation bureaus." which handle price quotations of overthecounter scientists. the securities industry will have a chance to express its views at hearings which the sec is required to conduct prior to the adoption of new regulations. some legislation may be required. i think i can make the same pledge that should such legislation be introduced. it will be handled temperately. and that all elements of the securities industry. as well as the securities and exchange commission. will have an opportunity to be heard. i think the securities and exchange commission and the study group have done a fine job. that does  mean i have to agree with everything they have said in part ii of the study. the urgent thing is for the securities industry and the commission to confer upon the special studys recommendations and to give us the full benefit of their thinking.
i shall  long detain the senate. i wish to state that i believe it is a great tribute to the senator from new jersey that his chairmanship of the subcommittee has brought us what is essentially an agreedupon bill. especially is this true when one realizes the great differences involved in the various viewpoints in regard to the bill. on the question of who would regulate the bank stocks. we finally decided that the regulatory agencies will regulate the affairs of the banks. as to what to do about life insurance companies and their required reports. we finally got the sec to accept the reports they file with the state regulatory agencies. as to what to do about distribution of the shares of the investment companies. we got the sec to make it clear that a separate organization of those companies of securities dealers. like the unlisted securities dealers association. would be proper. i invite attention to the letters of the sec which are attached to the report. which carry that out. they represent billions of dollars of securities. lest this achievement be underestimated. let it be ed that the unlisted securities affected by the bill represent trading in the amount of almost $20 billion a year. and this represents approximately 35 percent of the trading in securities on the registered stock exchanges. which is estimated at approximately $55 billion a year. and involves directly the securities holdings of 17 million americans. and involves indirectly probably a majority of adult americans. through life insurance holdings and savings bank deposits. this is the essence of the peoples capitalism. which i think is americas greatest contribution to the march of history. so i am delighted to join the senator from new jersey in this very fine work. and i hope it presages an attitude here which will give similar accommodation to the views of the great private enterprise system and will demonstrate our ability to work out these problems at the same time that the public interest is fully safeguarded. so. . i hope the bill will be promptly passed by the senate.
i understand. . at this time i wish to say a few words about the report of the special study of securities markets  submitted in its entirety to the congress by the securities and exchange commission. the report represents a monumental effort to analyze the condition of the american securities market. first and foremost it must be said that. unlike the situation in the period from 1929 to 1932. this study has  disclosed any major scandal or fraud or imposition on the part of those in the securities business. secondand this is very importantit has disclosed certain situations which need to be handled by legislation. the senate already has passed on july 30 a bill. s. 1642. concerning qualifications for entry into the securities business and regulation of the overthecounter securities market. and it is hoped that the house of representatives will enact that measure promptly. thirdand this also is very importantthe emphasis in all of the report has been upon selfregulation.
i thank my colleague. . in answer to the question by my colleague from new york . i said. that there are other ways in which we could do what needs to be done with respect to some discipline in our capital market with respect to the flotation of foreign issues. first. we should give whatever assistance is necessary to help west european nations develop their own capital markets. it is incongruous that the same countries which are amassing sizable dollar and gold reserves at the expense of our international balanceofpayments deficits should come to the new york market for their capital needs. while they continue to maintain strict restrictions on capital movements in their own countries. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks three documents. one entitled "summary of controls over major capital movements exercised by major industrial countries" prepared by the treasury. and a report entitled "the european capital markets." issued by the chase manhattan bank of new york. and an article from the july 19 issue of the wall street journal relating to restrictions on capital movements in principal financial markets of the world. all of which bear out the fact that we are asked to keep open our efficient capital markets for the very countries which are building up their reserves at the expense of our imbalance of. international payments while they are lax in expanding their own markets for the flotation of securities and are maintaining strict restrictions upon capital flows.
freedom is always a relative thing. and we are free. but it is  as effective in this respect. and it is  worth sacrificing effectiveness for freedom. after all. freedom is relative. when the rediscount rate is raised. interest rates are raised for foreigners. and americans as well. this is an absolute act by a government agency. or a quasigovernmental agency. we are free. but the market is  permitted to seek its own level. we come to the point of government decision that it is in our national interest to raise the rediscount rate. so we sacrifice the right for the market to seek its own level. i think the argument can be made that it will cause the buyer considerable freedom if he can buy the security he wants to buy. but i point out that. in my opinion. its disadvantages probably outweigh its advantages. if there is some other way to do it. the disadvantages are. in the first place. that it will have effect. because even if the equalization tax is paid. interest rates will still remain higher abroad. and i doubt that we will stop the outflow of american dollars. second. there is involved an area of governmental control over capital issues. and if there is to be any control. people would rather have the control in the hands of an agency composed of government as well as private enterprise.
flatly.  and to that list may be added such measures as tourism and export promotion as well. those measures are all desirable and necessary as things stand today. but the only measure which would adequately deal with our current international financial problems would be to put into effect a new base for international credit. a new base for monetary support. which would give the world an adequate mechanism so that the nations would  have to prosper at the expense of other nations. they must produce efficiently and effectively in order to live. prosper. and grow. but at the same time should  be caused undue difficulties while they are trying to supply and help others arrive at that stage. as we are doing. one of the qualities we all enjoy in our colleague from minnesota is that he has a sure instinct for putting his finger on the main point. even though he may  be an ecoist and even if he can phrase the problem in the technical words of an expert in the subject. he is well able to do that in the fields in which he is a specialist. like disarmament and nuclear control. while he is obviously unable to do it in this field. he has unerringly picked out the central theme. as i tried to do. we must. as we did with the establishment of the federal reserve system in the united states. find a way in the international sphere in which we are longer impaled on a cross of gold. in the pre1914 days. when we had a situation of imbalance. as we do today. the banks had to limit their credit. people were put out of work. factories were shut down. the country would grind slowly through a depression. and would come back ecoically only when shortages developed and there was a demand for people to go back to work. the pre1914 system required that they pay for the necessary adjustments. today we do  want to do that. we have a choice of whether we want to go the way of the communist system. under which the government dictates what one can or can do. and what sanctions are to be imposed if a person does  work harder. and he is sent to cix1024 jail. or worse. or whether we shall alter our system of credit which is imbedded in the credit and banking scheme. the international monetary system we have today is completely inadequate to do the job. it must be changed. the call which i am issuing on the floor today. which has been joined in by other senators. is that the poultices. the bandaids. as the senator from minnesota calls them. are insignificant. when one meets with an accident. he must be bandaged and put in temporary splints. but if a person is to be cured. he must receive better treatment. we are  doing it. it must be done. there is hing holy about gold. we must find a way to expand international credit. otherwise. we shall find ourselves in trouble. we are in trouble only because the custodians. the bookkeepers. and the thinkers have fallen short of the whole point.
. one of my major concerns in introducing. along with senators hartke. cooper. and brewster. s. 1255. which would create a commission on revision of the antitrust laws. was the impact which the present. long unreviewed structure of our antitrust laws is having upon our international trade. much evidence has been coming to light that the drive being conducted by one part of our government to increase our exports and thereby ease our balanceofpayments problems is being contradicted by the drive of aher segment of the government to enforce an antitrust structure which in large part does  contemplate either our balanceofpayments problems or our export drive. the white house conference on export expansion held on september 17 and 18 highlighted this conflict. committee eleven of the conference. consisting of many of the most distinguished participants in the conference. was charged with considering antitrust aspects of export expansion. the committee concluded that the conflict was of such magnitude that it could  possibly propose substantive revision of the antitrust laws in the 2 days allotted to it and stated: it is for this reason that the committee expresses its approval in principle of senate bill 1255 providing for a government commission to explore in depth all of the problems associated with the application of the antitrust laws to foreign commerce. as well as the exemption provided by the webbpomerene act. only such a commission. given adequate staff. financing. facilities. and support can expect to report adequately upon the problems which have been assigned to this committee. the committee also found that the balanceofpayments problem is so pressing that it felt it must make some suggestions immediately to alleviate the difficulties by administrative action within the existing antitrust structure and also outlined some typical examples of concrete problems faced by american firms operating in foreign trade. i believe the committee has performed a valuable service which should be of great assistance in identifying the extent of the antitrustexport conflict and in bringing about a broad scale review of the antitrust laws in the light of the present and future needs of our nation. i ask unanimous consent that the committees report be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
the johnson act of 1934. as amended in 1945. prohibits u.s. citizens from making loans of any kind to any government or agency which is in default on its obligations to the u.s. government and which is  a member of the international monetary fund or the international bank for reconstruction and development. at the present time. the prohibition in the act applies to all the countries of the soviet bloc except albania and bulgaria which are  in default on obligations to the u.s. government. there have been u.s. government loans to the soviet union or other soviet bloc countries since world war ii. except for a loan to poland which was fully drawn in 1948. there have been some more recent credits to poland related to purchases of american food. raw materials. and related products. these limited credits were extended under the special executive authority of section 451 of the mutual security act of 1954. as amended. during the period when that provision made such credits possible. apart from the credits described above. the situation today is. that the mutual defense assistance control act of 1951battle act--is interpreted as precluding the granting of credits by the u.s. government to the soviet bloc. any relaxation of these acts in favor of soviet bloc credits should be left to the negotiation and determination of the president. on the basis of the national interest. second. patent and copyright protection: although attempts have been made. agreement has ever been reached with the russians over this issue. we must go beyond the recognition of the principle of legal protection of patent rights. including the obligation to pay the owner of the patent a consideration based on the cost of the development of a new product. as well as the cost of installations used in launching industrial production. such protection should also cover the payment of royalties to the patent holder for the use of patents in the u.s.s.r. such recognition of accepted practices should include. furthermore. the right of creative writers to compensation for the translation of works covered by copyright. third. settlement of commercial disputes: there has been continuing doubt in the minds of american businessmen about the reliability of the arbitration tribunals in communist countries. it would be desirable. therefore. if commercial disputes between soviet state trading corporations and private u.s. firms be submitted to impartial arbitration. we should also expect that bloc governments will  prevent their commercial agencies from agreeing to neutral arbitration. fourth. facilitating access to markets and buyers: the soviet bloc countries should agree to allow free world businessmen direct access to the particular enterprise he hopes to serve. such a right of direct contact.  enjoyed by the bloc countries in the free world. should also be extended to include the right to maintain commercial representatives on the territory of the state trading countries. fifth. dumping and market disruption: assurances must be obtained from the soviet union that it will abide by gatt rules. and would refrain from behavior generally unacceptable in the mal course of trade among western nations. soviet disruptive activity in international trade in tin. flax. aluminum. and fuel oil markets is still fresh in the minds of western businessmen. soviet adherence to gatt rules of fair competition would therefore go a long way to allay western fears in this regard. yet would  impose impossible obligations on the u.s.s.r. sixth. diversion and displacement: the united states must protect itself so that any increased trade in permissible goods with the soviet bloc does  undermine our policy prohibiting even this type of trade with cuba and communist china and its asian satellites. it should be an objective of u.s. negotiators to reach a specific understanding regarding a system of safeguards against the transshipment of u.s. goods to embargoed areas. we obviously can prevent the soviet union from shipping its own goods to these countries and i am under illusions that an airtight plan of this character can be worked out. but we certainly can do a good deal about this matter and we must try to do all possible. seventh. mostfavorednation treatment: there is also the question of the dutiability of imports from the soviet bloc. section 231 of the trade expansion act of 1962 prohibits the extension of mostfavorednation treatment to any communistcontrolled country. which means that soviet bloc merchandise pays u.s. duties at the original high rate of the tariff act of 1930. i believe the determination of the duty treatment of imports from the communist bloc should be left to the discretion of the president. acting in a selective way. on the basis of the national interest. should negotiations on these issues prove to be fruitful. the question of the types of goods to be the subject of expanded trade would be a proper subject for discussion between the governments concerned. . these seven items must be negotiated if we are  to proceed with our eyes shut into a trade deal with the soviet bloc. these are quite apart from the question of longterm credits. which. as i pointed out. must be evaluated in the light of political considerations.
this limited ecoic demand for the standard types of soviet goods in the u.s. market must be borne in mind as a factor that tends. in the long run. to keep the exchange of goods between these two countries within modest bounds. in the last 10 years. the trade exchange. imports and exportsbetween the u.s.s.r. and the rest of the world. including other bloc countries. has grown from slightly more than $3 billion in 1952 to over $10 billion in 1962. soviet trade with the free world accounts for only about onethird of this trade. .there is. of course. a qualitative factor which enters the equation. the soviet bloc countries find it cheaper. in some instances. to add to capacity by importing modern plants and techogy rather than building all the additional facilities foreseen in their longrange planning. the fact that eastwest trade is of marginal importance in aggregate terms either to the east or to the west does  change the fact that this marginal contribution is viewed as having a certain ecoic importance by both sides. resort to imports involves a timesaving factor for the bloc which helps them meet production schedules and realize plan targets. trade with the west is thus of sufficient importance to the soviets that they would prefer to continue to rely upon this marginal adjustment mechanism of importing from the industrialized countries if it can conveniently be arranged. for the major trading countries of the west. the record is quite clear that they regard orders from the soviet bloc as having commercial and political importance from their own standpoint. especially in industries subject to underemployment. apart from the ecoic. the political and psychological importance to the soviet bloc of western controls is subtantlal. this sensitivity on the part of the soviet bloc countries to what they regard as discriminatory treatment by the west suggests the usefulness of eastwest trade relationships as a possible bargaining area under favorable circumstances.
. estes kefauver was a vigorous battler for the values in which he believed and his untimely passing was a great shock and a great loss to the senate and the nation. i came into closest association with him in our work together as members of the nato parliamentarians conference. which he helped to found and to which he made invaluable contributions. he was the original sponsor of the atlantic union resolution when he began his senate career in 1949. and throughout his service here he was an effective leader in the movement toward a true atlantic partnership. during this last year. he was in the process of combining his deep interest in ecoic concentration and antitrust with this long dedication to the atlantic community byholding hearings on the subject of the developing antitrust law of the european common market. it was with great satisfaction that he and i joined together in perfecting aspects of the drug bill enacted in 1962. particularly in ending the use of experimental drugs upon patients without their consent. which had come to light in the thalidomide tragedy and which. hopefully. the food and drug administration is  policing. we did  agree on all issues. but i always found estes a stanch and effective advocate. in the best and finest traditions of the u.s. senate. he was a dear and genial friend and the nation. as well as each of us as his warm friend. mourns his loss.
may i ask a question before the agreement is made. the senator has asked for unanimous consent. i am a member of the committee on banking and currency. i believe i am entitled to have a question answered.
 and the majority party. etheless. the respect for congress as a whole has declined somewhat. we can do much to fortify the respect people have for us if we do  try to write a special deal for ourselves. we must class ourselves with the very people whom we are. in a sense. supervising. in accordance with the legislative reorganization act. we have legislative oversight over all government departments. if we set standards of ethics for them. then we have a duty to set a standard of ethics for ourselves. i do  consider that to be the remotest diminution of our dignity. any more than judges who impose upon themselves cas of ethics suffer any diminution of their dignity when they pass upon the affairs of other people. or corporate directors. who must report their transactions to the securities and exchange commission or other trustees. i hope the senate will act soon on the proposed legislation. i ask unanimous consent to include as part of my remarks editorials from life magazine and from the new york times on this subject:
. i hope the senator from oregon may see fit. either through his own efforts or through some other subcommittee of the committee on foreign relations. to arrange for hearings on the bill. i join him in welcoming the thoughtful attention of the american business and governmental community to the bill and share the hope that it may be improved and sharpened as an effective instrument of american foreign policy and in the development of interamerican relations. under the terms of the legislation introduced today. initial and temporary capital funds for the peace by investment corporation. totaling $65 million. would be subscribed to by the u.s. government through the treasury. during the first 6 years of its operations. to obtain added funds for its investment purposes. the corporation would also be authorized to borrow from the treasury in amounts  exceeding $75 million in any 1 year. and in an aggregate outstanding amount  exceeding $375 million. during this initial period. the corporation would function as an agency of the united states. but upon retirement of the basic portion of the original investment in the project by the treasury. the corporation would go through an orderly transition from an agency of the united states to private operation and management. the bill contains provisions for the retirement of these initial subscriptions and borrowings with earnings in investments and with permanent capital funds obtained by offering stock for public sale. predominantly to small investors the issuance of this stock would be authorized by the bill in a total amount of $10 billion.  more than half of which could be during the first 6 years of the corporations operation. the plan also includes an insurance feature. designed to protect the investments of the corporation and of private investors other than the corporation in any oversea undertaking eligible for financial assistance by the corporation on a sound actuarial basis against certain types of risk. the establishment of the peace corps reflects growing realization that governments and diplomatic relations alone can bring enduring peace. without the consolidation and expansion of peopletopeople relationships. ecoic relationships are fundamental to human relationships. and private ecoic endeavors are inseparable from systems of human freedom. this measure is designed to establish and expand peopletopeople relationships in the ecoic field. to encourage an expanded flow of private capital investment from the united states into ecoically sound enterprises in underdeveloped areas of the world in the interest of world peace through mutual ecoic progress. to enlarge the number of private investors participating in thi8 flow of capital so as to forge more direct links among the peoples of the world. to reduce gradually thereby the need for u.s. public investment and grants overseas. to help redirect the total flow of capital from the united states so that increasing portions of this total flow go to the underdeveloped areas. and thus be in better harmony with the domestic ecoic needs of the united states and the effective management of its international balanceofpayments problems. the onrushing soviet ecoic challenge underscores a fact which has been evident since the end of world war 1ithat our own national and ecoic security depends upon our willingness and ability to play a substantial ecoic role in the advancement of industrialization. agricultural productivity. and living standards which are  so abysmally low in many areas of the free and committed world. undoubtedly. public funds from the united states. from other countries and from international agencies. will need to be continued for some years. and even enlarged. but it is obvious that the flow of private capital needs to be expanded emously in the years ahead. if a stable productive structure is to be built on the foundations created with the help of public funds. equally important as the ecoic factors are the political and social factors. by demonstrating throughout the world.  only that we in the united states can help to make responsible sovereign governments work for the benefit of free peoples everywhere. but also that we can help to make responsible private enterprise work for the benefit of free peoples everywhere. we may by precept and example enlarge the appeal of our admixture of private enterprise and government in other areas of the world. and by making it possible for other peoples to rise out of near starvation to a degree of production which will make further improvement in living standards increasingly feasible through their own efforts. we shall have gotten closer to the heart of the problem of peace. further. the opening up of trade and market opportunities which will result from an improved techogy in the underdeveloped areas can make an immense contribution to our own longrange ecoic advancement at a steady growth rate. with beneficent consequences in the form of business and farm prosperity. increased job opportunities. and better living standards here in the united states. the basic criteria for the entire investment program contained in the bill require that the peace by investment corporation make these findings: first. that each specific investment is in furtherance of an undertaking which is ecoically sound. actually or potentially profitable. and consistent with the sound. longrange ecoic development of the country in which it is located. second. the country in which the undertaking is located shall have had full information with respect to it and opportunity to express a judgment as to its desirability. third. that the investment is  in competition with  duplicative of other private investment programs or other public programs of the united states or of international agencies which give reasonable promise of accomplishing comparable results in accord with the purpose of this act. fourth. that each investment. taking into account the country in which it is located. is in accord with the general international ecoic and political policies of the united states. fifth. that the investment program in general is consistent with the shortrange and longrange policy of the united states to maintain maximum employment. production. and purchasing power within the domestic ecoy. sixth. that the investment program in general is consistent with the shortrange and longrange need of the united states to maintain a satisfactory balanceofpayments position. and seventh. that the investment program. in general and in its specific applications. is mutually beneficial to the country to which the investment flows and country from which it emanates. taking into account  only purely ecoic considerations but also consideration of human improvement under free institutions.
s special representative for trade negotiations. stated publicly that consideration is  being given by the executive branch to an international conference to set worldwide antidumping standards. since the problem of dumping is to a very large extent one that confronts the industrialized countries. the organization for ecoic cooperation and developmentoecdwould provide a very suitable framework for the negotiation of such a convention. such negotiations would make a contribution  only to a sane and sensible solution and treatment of the problem of dumping in international trade. but would have other important advantages as well. the very act of negotiation and of the establishment of a system of consultation would make an important contribution to closer collaboration among the atlantic countries. it is by dealing jointly with such practical problems on an atlantic level that we can build the greater cohesion of the atlantic community. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial from the american metal market dated february 4. 1964. referred to above. along with a policy declaration on antidumping measures. approved by the 52d annual meeting of the u.s. chamber of commerce on april 29. may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 of the have established an organization called pepsicola co.. are cochairmen of the orgathe interracial council for business nization that will administer the plan. it opportunity whose object is to get small is the interracial council for business opbusiness opportunities and loans for portunity. and it is cosponsored by the amerbusinesses in which negroes participate. ican jewish congress and the urban league an appalling set of statistics in this of greater new york. newspaper story is the following: the fourteen banks to cooperate council found that only 18 percent of the efforts will be made to assist negroes alretail businesses in harlem. which is a ready in business. and those who wish to go into business. to apply for financial assistance very heavily negropopulated commu- in the proper manner and to the proper nity in new york. are negro owned. and places. in the whole city of new york only a many negroes have been cut off "from the dozen negroowned businesses employ mainstream of business." mr. russell said. more than 10 people. there are almost and do  understand how to obtain businegrosponsored manufacturing ness loans from banks. fourteen leading commercial banks have firms and distributors. in short. there agreed to cooperate with the council. which is a tremendous task to be done beyond describes itself as "the nations first volunthe law. teer program of free direct technical assistance to underdeveloped business communities here in our own country." the plan was annced at a press conference at the overseas press club. 35 west 10th street. by mr. rockefeller and mr. russell.
. i have listened with the greatest of interest to the development by the distinguished senator from arkansas of the amendments to the foreign agents registration act. the senator from arkansas has given the subject much attention. as has the committee of which he is the chairman. in developing the bill. cx- 1009 as he himself ed in his presentation. the bill involves serious fundamental questions. he stated the problem. and i think his language is as good as any on what the problem is. he saidand i believe my recollection is fairly accuratethat the bill seeks to exempt from registration anyone who pursues routine commercial activities designed to reach commercial objectives. he said the bill seeks to bring about the registration of those who would engage in commercial activities to reach political objectives. the only trouble with that definition is that it leaves out a large number of people and a great number of situations. because many commercial activities seek to reach objectives which are mixed ecoic and political objectives. and the test which is prescribed by the bill. as its intent is described in the committee report. would clearly bring about a requirement for registration in many situations in which. in my judgment and in the judgment of many in the commercial world. there is intention whatever to bring about such registration. i shall. in the course of these remarks. specify in detail many of those situations. and i also shall submit an amendment which i believe will clarify the limitations of the statute. to begin with. i point out that i agree with the statute. i favor the registration of foreign agents in an effective way. so as to close the loopholes. but in the process of closing those loopholes. i do  believe we can engage in an unrealistic appraisal of actual practices of business concerns which are genuinely american businesses. the report is significant on this score. insofar as the subject matter which i am raising is concerned. the report deals with a description of what is intended to be accomplished by section 3 of the bill. i read from the report as follows: section 3 would amend section 3(d) of the act by exempting all activities with a bona fide commercial purpose which are private and are  political activities. the existing provision appears inadvertently to have been narrowed from its original scope by an amendment adopted in 1961. which restricted exemptions to financial and mercantile activities. the committee intends that legal. public relations. and other activities should be exempted when they have a commercial end and meet the other requirements of the section. the extension is  intended. however. to exempt activities having a bona fide commercial end but which employ political means to arrive at that end as. for example. in the case of the representative of a foreign manufacturer who brings pressure on the department of defense to reverse a "buy american" policy. then the report deals with exactly this point. on page 12. i shall refer to it. because it is very important: both this subsection and the preceding subsection. as well as others in the proposed bill. employ the phrase. "for or in the interest of" the agents foreign principal. it is. of course. recognized that thorny questions of interpretation will arise under these provisions. in situations involving complex corporate structures. it may prove difficult to make a factual determination as to whether certain material serves the interests of a foreign principal. the registered agent of a foreign corporation may also perform services for the corporations domestic affiliate. i digress here for a moment. to point out that there are american companies which have foreign subsidiaries and foreign affiliates. as there are also foreign companies which have american subsidiaries and american affiliates which are very american in their ownership and in their line of business. these are the problems with which we feel the bill deals unrealistically. i continue reading from the report: conceivably. booklets and news releases disseminated by the agent on behalf of the domestic affiliate may appear to some to fall within the scope of the proposed language. others may reach a different judgment. clearly. this is  a question for which the law can establish strict criteria. however. the department of justice has stated that it is prepared to advise on hypothetical situations in order to help to resolve uncertainties under this and other provisions of the act. it is also clear that the authority for determining the scope of the language "for or in the interest of a foreign principal" lies with the department of justice.  the registrant. for example. the mere assertion by a registrant that a letter from him to a newspaper editor is  "for or in the interest of" should  decisively affect the judgment of the justice department. assuming. of course. the letter in question bears on matters of interest to the registrants foreign principal. to show how thorny this subject is. i continue to read from the committee report on page 12. the second paragraph: in the situation where an agent of a u.s. parent corporation acts as agent for a foreign subsidiary or where a foreign corporation establishes an american subsidiary. the committee recognizes that the interests of the parent and subsidiary are  invariably the same. where in either of these cases the domestic affiliate or agent engages in political or other activities covered by the act. the predominant interests servedand i beg senators to take e of those wordswill in every case decide the question of registration. for example. the question of a u.s. parents ability to repatriate profits earned by its foreign subsidiary is predominantly in the interests of the parent rather than the oversea subsidiary. likewise. questions arising under the national labor relations act affecting the domestic subsidiary of a foreign parent would probably be predominantly in the interests of the local subsidiary to resolve. therefore. by implication. although the committee does  say so. one would assume that in those situations registration would  be required. the significance of those two examples is that they show cognizance on the part of the committee. as well as on the part of the drafters of the proposed legislation. of the fact that there are situations which do  represent the preponderant interest in a foreign subsidiary by an american company and. likewise. situations which do  represent the preponderant interest of a foreign principal in a subsidiary of that foreign corporation.  we come to the point where the shoe pinches: where. on the other hand. the local subsidiary is concerned with u.s. legislation enlarging the u.s. market for goods produced in the country where the foreign parent is located (as in the case of sugar quota legislation. for example) the predominant interest is foreign. likewise. where the foreign subsidiary of a u.s. parent is concerned with u.s. legislation facilitating investment or expansion of production abroad the locus of the interest will. also. as a general rule. be predominantly (even if  ultimately) foreign. the first question which suggests itself is this: what about the local subsidiary of a foreign corporation concerned with u.s. legislation relating to sugar produced in this country. this is the point which has caused many of the major corporations of the united states to be cast in deep doubt about this matter. and has caused the chamber of commerce of the united states to have grave questions about this matter. which is the reason for the amendment which i shall propose. i point out that the best one can say for the committee report is it proposes that the department of justice shall decide whom it will prosecute and whom it will  prosecute under this particular measure.
in the first place. i think the senators point is answered by the amendment. in view of the way the amendment deals with the commercial and business activities of the particular person and of the particular corporation that may be called upon to register. the amendment deals with the activities of the subsidiary of the particular company which is in that particular line of business. it also deals with the domestic subsidiary of a foreign company which is engaged in that particular companys line of business and he engages in its activities in that particular line of business. as to a company which represents or makes a business of representing other companies. such as a publicrelations company. i see objection whatever to eliminating it completely from this amendment. i have intention or design to the contrary. we are looking to. companies which pursue mal activities throughout the world. and have a real concern that they will be caught in this particular net.
the opinion would be an advisory opinion with respect to a particular person issued at his request. therefore it would  fall within the ambit of a public hearing record in a case in which there had been an accusation and a judgment arrived at after deliberation and confrontation by both sides. the proposal calls for a guideline or a guide. if the committee should choose to give it. for the conduct of a senator or a senate employee. if we were to require the opinion to be made public. we would vitiate the possibility of obtaining an advisory opinion which would be useful. in other words. one seeking such an opinion might  have done anything. he might be seeking guidance as to whether he could do something. yet if his inquiry were disclosed. the public might assume that he had done something. in the case of advisory opinions under the legislative code in the state of new york. the proposed procedure has been the practice. it is also true of advisory opinions in various other types of cases. government departments keep very large amounts of information confidential with the full concurrence of the congress. because it would be unfair to a particular company or to a particular individual to reveal such information. that is the procedure in respect to the patent office. the federal trade commission. and the department of justice. and it is true with respect to other agencies of the government. it is true for the very same reasons. as i have said. it is entirely in the committees discretion. if one should ask for an advisory opinion. the question would be left to the committee. the person making the inquiry would run the risk that the committee might make it public. but i am sure that if the committee were given the authority. it would  abuse it.
of course. i have never been found wanting in fidelity to my ideas. if the senate adopted the alternative for a capital issues committee. or if the senate adopted an amendment with respect to exempting the first 25 percent of american purchases. of course i would favor the proposed legislation. the proposed legislation would then be. in a sophisticated way. designed to accomplish the purposes which. if any. need to be accomplished. and very largely stand by the purposes of the committee. at the same time. it would . in my judgmentand i believe in the judgment of many others. of whom i shall be quoting a great manyembarrass and jeopardize the standing of the united states as the financial and banking leader of the free world.
yes. and the senator is buttressed by an outstanding report to the president of the united states on that subject made by "the task force on promoting increased foreign investment in united states corporate securities and increased foreign financing for united states corporations operating abroad." a task force headed by mr. fowler of the treasury department. which contains about 40 recommendations as to how we can attract capital into this country. let us understand-
i also ask unanimous consent that the fowler committee report to which i have been referring at appropriate places in my remarks be printed in the record. as well as a recital of the principal exclusions in the bill which appear at page 2. table 1. which analyzes the imbalance in u.s. payments over the period of years since 1949. also table 2. which analyzes the impact of various items in the u.s. balance of payments. like securities transactions. to which i have referred in this debate. also. table 3. page 5 of the committee report relating to issues of foreign securities purchased by u.s. residents. by area of origin of issue.
. before we are through. although i do  k that we shall actually manage it in time. i should like to see the senator from iowa given the opportunity to offer an amendment which would establish a criterion. i stated affirmatively and clearly that a criterion should be written into the amendment. i have stated what that criterion is intended to be so far as my colleague and i. as authors of the amendment. are concerned. i assure senators that if the amendment is agreed to. i shall use every effort to see that that criterion is written into the bill in conference. i have doubt that if an amendment like the pending amendment survives a conference. it will be written in. to sum up the argument with respect to the subject. i wish to make it clear that while i believe in the amendment completely. the amendment is  mine in the sense of the initiative in thinking it up. the amendment was suggested by nathaniel samuels. of new york. who is chairman of the foreign investment committee of the investment bankers association of america. in his letter of july 16. which i have read into the record. he states that he has polled the members of the committee and can report that there is general support of an amendment in the nature of the one which i have proposed. the amendment is a flexible one in the sense that it would exempt that part of the securities of any foreign flotation sold by domestic underwriters or to residents of the united states. it being estimated that that percentage would initially be 25 percent. but the secretary of the treasury. under my amendment. could increase or reduce the percentage in order to keep the figure within the bounds of an acceptable outflow of dollars for foreign investment by americans. u.s. foreign investment in portfolio securities improves the u.s. balanceofpayments position in the long run. because those expenditures create assets which can be sold to recoup the original investment and. in addition. they provide significant revenues in the form of dividends and interest. i have pointed out that over a period of years we get a material net return from our dividends and interest on foreign private investment. far more than the amount which we invest every year. the only year in which that has  been true is the year 195758. the proposed tax so far. with its retroactive date. has acted as a complete embargo rather than merely a protective tariff on capital exports. foreign borrowing in the united states has practically dried up. this is  a very good thing. in the first place. it has probably distorted the bank loan factor of the outflow of dollars. second. it is bound to have an effect upon the united states as a money market. and therefore upon the united states as a supplier of goods which are bought with the money which can be borrowed here. it is believed that. as money market conditions and balanceofpayments trends change so rapidlyand i have given a great many facts and figures to show how they have changed since the day when someone in the treasury department thought up the taxwe should provide. if we pass the bill. administrative flexibility. that is an added reason for the amendment. it would provide administrative flexibility. it is desirable that the u.s. capital markets be kept open at all times. to the maximum extent compatible with an acceptable current balanceofpayments position for the united states. in the international competition with communism the importance to capitalism of free international capital markets to which private enterprise may turn for private financing is absolutely indispensable. there is a significant possibility that in the next few years increased u.s. portfolio and investment abroad may be necessary to maintain international liquidity. we must preserve sufficient access to our capital market in the interim so as to be able to provide the capital as and when required. and that can be done unless we can maintain the channels of communication of the foreign financial centers. preserve the banking relationships that it depends upon. and the actual trust upon which it is grounded to conserve the expert kledge of foreign capital markets that our investment bankers have developed. similarly. we must continue the interest of u.s. institutional investors in foreign securities and the flow of information to them regarding such securities. e of these financial elements will long persist if foreign issues in the united states continue to be as severely curtailed as is  the case. participation by the united states and by u.s. firms in the sale of foreign securities has been one of the major reasons for the development. for the most part. in the past decade. of the foreign contacts of these firms. without some measure of twoway improvement. it is unreasonable to expect that we shall gain in the balance of payments because of investments in this country. because we are a market for securities encouraging such investment in the united states. and. through u.s. firms. distribution of such securities.
. in the colloquy with my distinguished colleague. the senator from iowa . an effort was made to develop a criterion upon which the secretary of the treasury could increase or reduce the percentage which would be available for american placement of a foreign securities issue without incurring the tax. i have endeavored with the senator from iowa to draft the actual language to that effect. however. it seems to me that in a matter as delicate as this. and within the time which would be afforded to draft it. it is almost physically impossible to draft the appropriate provision without. perhaps. running afoul of some other difficulty which can be foreseen under the stress of the moment. especially as this amendment. as drawn. has been approved by the chairman of the foreign investment committee of the american bankers association. i believe we would be best advised to make the legislative intent very clearwhich i have made clearand ask members of the senate to support the amendment on that ground. the legislative intent having been made clear. it will be carried out if the amendment succeeds. that would be better than endeavoring to improvise some form of amendment on such short ice as we would have in this particular case.
this is most unusual. i would  say flatly that there are e. i do  k of any. it is a most unusual technique. which has inhibited the operation of our capital market in all this time and has caused a certain distortion in the figures which i produced on commercial loans. which ballooned over this same period of time.
i have doubt whatever of the good faith of the senators assertion. i accept it completely. i do  even doubt the good faith of the thoughti do  like to call it a determinatio the treasury department. but in my judgment. the pressures of reality will be so great with respect to japan. with which we enjoy a favorable balance of payments. which urgently needs capital. and which must look in essence to this market for that purpose. it is so much in our national interest that this capital market shall  be closed to japanthat is my honest conviction. based upon considerable kledge of the situationthat whether they think so  or . that is exactly what will happen. the treasury will be in charge. the senate shows every disposition to pass the bill. however. i ask senators to bear with me for a few months. so that we may see what will happen with respect to japan. which is. in many ways. a case analogous to that of canada. because rumors have been rife that that is what the treasury will have to do. i do  wish by my statement to persuade the senator from louisiana to say that the treasury will  do it. but our national interest is so infinitely superior to any pride of authorship that i would want the treasury to exempt japan if that were in our national interest. matter what the treasury says . i am glad the senator has obtained this information. because it enables me to clarify an assertion i have made. it is my judgment that the pressure of international ecoics has caused our government to make that decision with respect to japan. if it were inhibited by some colloquy among senators or some position it would have to assume in order to have the bill passed. the situation would be even worse than it is .
i thank my colleague for his helpful and constructive intercession. i point out that what my colleague has just referred to is the main thrust of the report to the president of the united states of the task force. headed by henry h. fowler. the under secretary of the treasury. the socalled fowler task force. to promote increased foreign investments in united states corporate securities and to increase financing of u.s. corporations abroad. which is directly related to reducing our balance of payments. by the proposed tax we are encouraging rather than discouraging compliance with the recommendations of that report. to the disinterest rather than to the interest of foreign investments in the way the fowler committee contemplated the program would operate if we adopted the task force report
. it seems to me that the committee was very clear on what it was to do. it was to adopt a compromise on this proposal. therefore. i am a little confounded by the statement of the senator in charge of the bill. who said that the committee had changed its position. i invite attention to page 16 of the report. it reads: your committee is aware that a generalized exclusion of this type could be abused. although that is  expected. your committee does consider it necessary to provide specific authority in the bill for the collection of detailed and timely information on the nature of. and trends in. bank lending to foreign persons. the information collected under these reporting requirements will provide a basis both for determining whether a general exclusion of this character should be continued and. if . for indicating the specific ways in which the general exclusion should then be modified. the possible need for the practicability of amending this legislation with respect to loans of commercial banks will be reviewed by your committee should this evidence suggest that bank lending to industrialized countries abroad. whose borrowing will otherwise be subject to tax. is rising in amounts out of proportion to a general expansion in the banking business or amounts related to the mal recurring needs of international trade. it seems to me very likely that they rejected the concept of such an amendment. i assume this is the official committee position. i ask the senator. in all frankness. whether we are to rely on this statement. have we  a right to rely on the statement in the report to that effect.
. i stand here to predict that it will hurt the country far more than it will help the country. that we shall rue the day we put this train of events in motion. other country does this. the united kingdom. which is the most nearly analogous country to us. has a capital issues committee. i would much rather give the secretary of the treasury absolute control of the admission of foreign securities into this country. i would much rather do that. which is at least the traditional way for important countries with banking responsibilities to handle a matter of this kind. than to go for all this sense which is contained in the bill. which is completely inflexible. and which will have real effect. because the foreign borrower will pay the 1percent tax. and there will be as many admissions of securities as before. the only one who will be hurt will be the small investor. who may wish to buy some foreign stocks and will have to pay a 15percent tax. therefore. he will  do so. it is interesting to me that the amendment of the senator from tennessee  would extend the tax to commercial loans. which is unheard of. i hope that senators will study this matter overnight. they  propose a standby tax on commercial loans by commercial banks.
i should think that if the government were unwise egh to use its standby authority. it would really be distorting the whole banking and monetary system. of which the united states is head and front in the world. i can only hope and pray that there are better brains in the treasury department which will  use any such authority as this.
neither did i. i am speaking to an act of the senate which has taken place by the majority and we are well aware of the implications of the word "we." one other point should be mentioned. it should be ed that direct investments are still exempt from the bill where there is ownership of 10 percent or more of equity in the entity in which the investment is made. so that  becomes a preferred category because everything else is under the banstandby authority for commercial loans. bonds. stocks. but  direct investments. whom does that favor. it favors the rich investor over the more modest investor. because direct investments are the interests with large properties abroad. they are the direct investors. they are completely out of this situation. as to encouraging direct investments and less portfolio investments. many ecoists who testified doubt the desirability of that.  we have compounded it by also moving a shadow over commercial bank loans. i believe my colleague the senator from new york has put his finger on the issue. this is a bad bill to begin with. and there is real reason for its existence. yet someone in the treasury department got a brainstorm. and congress is going down the line for him. although the time to use that brainstorm has long since passed. i believe that the senate will rue the day. if we enact the bill amended in this way. and the authority is really used. we shall rue the day when we started this chain of events in this highly delicate area of international finance and international credit. we k that there are many claimants on us for $23 billion. and as someone has said. if they wished. those claimants could take us into bankruptcy. this is a fine example for a debtor country to show its creditor countries in terms of the intelligence. wisdom. and efficiency with which it proposes to operate the international and financial credit system of the world. i deplore it very greatly. . i shall vote decidedly " on this bill. i hope the senate will reject it.
. the british built their empire for 300 years on being banker for the world. they did pretty well. what my colleague has in mind as a banker is one who finances foreign aid.  at all. a banker is one who finances profitable commercial transactions. the banking business. as it has been for hundreds of years. is still probably one of the most profitable businesses on earth. if anyone wishes confirmation of that statement. i suggest that he look at the figures. i do  care what the senator and his friends say about the amount of money we are investing abroad. we get back from abroad more than we invest. we have done so every year except one year195758. i put the figures into the record. in the year 1963. to which the senator referred. we received back almost $4 billion from income on private investments public. but private investments. that is my first point. one of the real strengths of our nation in the world is the fact that we are the leading banking country in the world. that is good for us. that makes our people rich. it makes our exports better. it makes our investments better. it is better for us and better for the world. we had better keep it up and make it bigger if the world is to have a prayer to pull it out of the mess it is in. secondand it is the only other point that i shall emphasizethe senator has said that it is most likely that if we do  pass the tax measure. the nations of the world to which we owe money will call us for it. on the contrary. if we go through with an amateurish performance like the one proposed. it is more likely that they will call us on those very debts. having much less confidence in our leadership. would the bill put us in condition so that we should be able to pay $23 billion if it were called. that is sense. the bill does  involve cutting down the outflow of dollars. at the most. even if it worked 100 percent. it would be more than $400 million or $500 million a year. because only $1 billion a year goes out from american investors. and of that $1 billion. onehalf goes to canada. those are the figures in the committees report for 1963.
i did  say "last year." i shall quote from the prospectus of the new york airways co.. filed with securities and exchange commission on june 3. 1964. for the public offering of debentures which states that "under the subsidy rates in effect for the last several years. new york airways has already suffered operating losses aggregating more than -threequarters of a million dollars."
 of the new york stock exchange has quite properly called the double standard for listed and unlisted securities. the main effect of the bill will be to apply to those unlisted securities. the overthecounter traded securities. the same disclosure and financial requirements. proxy solicitation and insider trading requirements. as currently apply. under the securities exchange act of 1934. to companies listed on the stock exchanges. that is the landmark advance which is a part of the bill. the amounts involved in this aspect of the bill are very large. it is estimated that unlisted securities dealt with by the bill represent trading of $20 billion a year in securities. that is about 35 percent of all securities traded on the registered stock exchanges. which are estimated at about $55 billion a year. the new requirements for the unlisted securities. many of which are of very large companies and companies in which there is very active tradingincluding practically all the insurance companies and banks. for exampleaffect directly the holdings of 17 million american holders of american securities. so we have here a proposed act which ranks in magnitude with the original securities laws. as to the acceptance by the senate of the house version of the bill. the chairman of the committee has already placed in the record the letter addressed to him by chairman cary of the sec. at this point i would like to interject that chairman cary has exercised a fine influence in the sec and on the securities markets generally. i regret very much to see him leave that position. though his successor. commissioner cohen. is well experienced in the sec. and i believe will carry on just as well. however. i do wish to express my regret at chairman carys leaving the agency. chairman carys letter analyzed in detail the changes that have been made. i shall touch the highlights very briefly. the basic purposes of the bill as it was passed by the senate continue to be servedthat is. the applicability to unlisted securities of the same requirements for disclosure and ethical dealing as prevail for listed securities. there is aher aspect to the bill. namely. improved qualification requirements and disciplinary procedures for those who may engage in overthecounter transactions. the registered brokers and dealers in unlisted securities. a few changes have been made by the house. but i do  regard them as changing the fundamental quality of the bill. a significant change which the house made was to relieve insurance companies of the principal impact of the bill. the house version of the bill exempts the securities of insurance companies. but would keep a string on them so that if it later seems advisable to bring insurance companies tinder the federal regulations. there will be an open door to come back and ask for appropriate legislation. the major question was whether or  the state regulatory agencies already have egh authority over insurance companies so that the disclosure required by them would be adequate for all purposes. and whether the insurance companies should be burdened with additional filings with federal establishments. the house version of the bill requires filings of a regularized and rather complete character by insurance companies with their state authorities. that provision is reasonable. in my judgment. it was felt wise to proceed first on that basis to see whether the state authorities could  give the public what it would get with respect to insurance companies under the bill as the senate had passed it. the other significant change in the securities aspect of the bill relates to trading in foreign securities. those were exempted when the senate considered the bill. we provided that the sec could withdraw the exemption if the sec found it was  in the public interest or  consistent with the protection of investors to continue the exemption. the house reversed that procedure. and provided that foreign securities should be subject to regulation. but that the sec could exempt affirmatively if it found that such regulation was  in the public interest and consistent with the interests of security holders. the securities industry itself was very much opposed to the house provision. it opposed it on the grounds that great harm would come to investors from disruption of trading in foreign securities. that foreign traders would be disinclined to trade if foreign securities were under the same requirements as applied to domestic securities. and that the tendency would be to do their trading abroad. with better markets and greater activity. and with resulting disadvantage to american holders. i am inclined to agree with that view. i strongly opposed the house provision and was very insistent on sending the bill to conference to deal with it. in view of the overriding desire to have the bill enacted. however. i share the belief of many securities organizations that. on balance. we should accept the bill. with the assurance given us by the sec. this assurance. which is in the record as a part of chairman carys letter to the chairman of the committee. is that the commission will exempt. in a blanket way. all foreign securities for a period of at least 1 year. during that time those who believe that they should have permanent exemptions could appear before the commission and give their reasons. and the commission would grant such permanent exemptions as it deems advisable. as there is grave concern about this provision. i should like to address a question to the chairman of the committee. i suggest to him and his committee that when the blanket exemption is close to its expiration date. it would be well to call the sec before the committee and have a review of its experience with this exemption. what it proposes for the future. whether it proposes to continue it. or whether it proposes to terminate it. at least in the exercise of legislative oversight our committee would then have an opportunity to judge how the house provision has worked. so that if we are unhappy with it we can initiate legislation to deal with the situation. would the chairman look with favor upon calling the sec before the committee so that we could get a complete understanding of how it fared. and what it proposed to do. would he also look with favor on any application which perhaps might be made by an individual who felt that he had been imposed upon by the sec in the administration of this provision. so that we could consider whether. within the limits of propriety and convenience. we could premit him. in the course of a hearing such as i have suggested. to air his grievances.
that is all i asked or could ask of the chairman. that he look favorably on a hearing. if people felt that they had a real grievance and that there was a congressional body to which they could look for a hearing on their grievance. i believe it would be a great element of confidence in the administration of this provision of the act. which encountered a good deal of opposition among securities people.
i thank the senator from virginia. what he has said should prove to be very satisfactory to all concerned. in regard to aher aspect of the bill. the house eliminated the requirement for compulsory membership in a registered national securities association. but it substituted rather tight sec regulation as an alternative. therefore an individual brokerdealer could take his choice. i think that is fair. we had grave doubts about compulsory membership. we thought it would be a convenience to the industry to handle the problem in the manner proposed. giving brokers and dealers the opportunity to form their own associations without being forced to join the national association of securities dealers. i do  see any reason why the house provision should  be satisfactory. the house also decided to leave those who deal strictly in intrastate business to state jurisdiction. rather than to bring them under federal regulatory power. again. this is a situation the effectiveness of which we can observe. aher problem was raised with respect to intercession of federal bank regulatory authorities in regard to the securities of banks. i feel that this problem has been reasonably dealt with in its totality by the bill which is before us. with the assurances given us by our chairman. i hope the senate will concur in the house amendments. i again refer to the outstanding work the chairman of the committee has done in bringing this bill to the point where it is . he started long ago. and it has required many years for the recommendations which were contained in bills which he had introduced so long to be finally adopted by congress. however. better late than never. i also pay my respect and tribute to the senator from new jersey . who will speak for himself later. he is the chairman of the securities subcommittee of the banking and currency committee. with the legislative oversight which we have in the committee. which i k will be exercised with the usual skill that our staff has shown in these matters. we shall be able. i believe. to make this a very meaningful and important piece of legislation. i should like to pay tribute also to matthew hale. who is our chief of staff in the committee. and to those who work under him. for the painstaking and fine efforts they have expended in bringing this bill to its present state. i join my chairman in expressing the expectation that the senate will concur in the house amendment.
i thank the senator very much. that reply will be very helpful. so that that important committee may do its work. i should like to address one additional question to the senator which perhaps he or one of his associates will answer. i call attention to the amendment adopted by the committee at page 3. lines 12 to 15. of the bill. which provides: strike out "fraud or misconduct" in the second proviso and insert in lieu thereof "fraud. misconduct. or action  meeting the standard of reasonable business prudence." . that language relates to the guarantees of private investment in underdeveloped countries and would insert a new basis. "the standard of reasonable business prudence." for  hoing claims based upon such guarantees. i am advised by representative members of the banking community in new york that the inclusion of this vague new standard will very materially cut down the amount of investments under the socalled allrisk guarantees. which are primarily in housing. some of the largest banks and leading brokerage firms in new york. which have already made housing loans in latin america. particularly in colombia and peru. and are making further investment plans there. including venezuela and argentina. advise me that the guarantee in this form would be unacceptable. and that they would  take the risk under such a guarantee because it could be avoided by the government if it wanted to. since the words " meeting a standard of reasonable business prudence" are as wide open as anybody could make them. i ask the chairman of the committee to tell us why that language was inserted and whether he would consider accepting an amendment to strike it out.
. last weeks final passage of s. 1642. bringing overthecounter securities within the same regulatory requirements as those applied to securities listed on exchanges. was a landmark in congressional protection of investors. but a parallel event. which should  go uniced. was an example of the kind of selfregulation on which investor confidence is also very solidly based. the unfortunate case of ira haupt & co. late last year indicated that investors were running risks of loss.  only because of their choices of investments. but also because of the possibility of the insolvency of the brokerage firm which handles their accounts. the new york stock exchange very commendably took it upon itself. as an exceptional measure to arrange for reimbursement of investors in that case. which involved paying $9.5 million of its own funds to repay customers who had left cash or securities with the firm. it appeared to me that some surer protection was needed. and i suggested to the exchange and to the securities exchange commission and to the federal deposit insurance corporation the possibility of establishing. either by law or by regulation under existing law. an insurance program analogous to fdic insurance of bank accounts. the exchange replied that it was appointing two special toplevel committees to deal with the problem. the work of those committees recently was completed. and resulted in recommendation of creation of a $10 million special trust fund. supplemented by a $15 million standby credit. to be available to customers when an exchange member firm becomes insolvent. these proposals have  been adopted by the board of govers of the exchange and in a referendum among the member firms of the exchange. the exchange and its members are to be highly commended for taking this important selfregulatory step. and i urge the other national exchanges and groups in the industry to consider following suit. it is particularly eworthy. i believe. that. while the exchange does  believe it is liable legally for customers losses. it is etheless taking steps to protect customers in the unlikely event of a recurrence of a member firms insolvency or stringency. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a description of the proposals. as submitted to the exchanges member firms. and as subsequently approved by them.
. in light of the intense senate debate which occurred over approval of the bill. h.r. 8864. to implement the international coffee agreement. i am sure that my colleagues will be interested to e that the coffee council at its recent meeting in london decided to fix the level of world coffee exports for the quota year beginning october 1 at 48 million bags or about 800.000 bags above the preceding quota year. an additional 500.000 bags may be placed on the market next april 30 if agreed upon at the next meeting of the council in march 1965. the new quota is believed to be roughly in line with expected growth in consumption and informed coffee traders indicate that this quota should provide the market with a firm underpinning without precipitating sharp price changes. as my colleagues will recall last year the coffee council fixed coffee quotas initially at 45.7 million bags. a level which was found to be inadequate in light of the subsequent world coffee shortagc which resulted from frost and drought damage which afflicted brazilian coffee supplies. in february 1964 the coffee council voted to increase the export quota by 2.4 million bags. in april 1964 an additional 388.000 bags were added tc world supplies. as a result. for the quota year ending september 1964. 48.5 million bags of coffee were made available for the world market. for various reasons only 47.2 million bags are expected to be exported for the period ending september it is. therefore. fair to conclude that at least up to the present the coffee council is functioning with a clear regard for the interests of the consuming nations. at the same time it is contributing to the stabilization of coffee prices which is so essential to coffeeproducing countries in latin america and africa. countries whose ecoic wellbeing is so closely tied to the security of the united states. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the wall street journal of august 10. 1964. describing the councils action. may be printed in the record.
 ought to do. what the secretary of the treasury ought to do. and what the american banking community ought to do in this matter. may have some effect. and that our friends abroad. who have looked to us for so long as the greatest capital market of the world. may at least be encouraged in the feeling that they have friends in this great body who understand the problem and who will be vigilant to see that. within the limits of the law. we shall do our utmost to dampen down its seriously adverse effects.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. many times i have said that it is probably the greatest "sleeper" issue in the united states. which will be awakened as soon as we really get into it. as we are doing . i came to the conclusion that. for all practical purposes the senator has presented a proposal which would in effect replace the amendment which my colleagues and i have presented up to the point where we reach the provision for complementary private insurance for individuals aged 65 and over. which is. for purposes of discussion here. the private enterprise aspect of our plan.
i have listened with great interest to the senator from oregon. i have heard him before on this subject. it is interesting and exciting to me that the senator. who has a very interesting and sympathetic relationship to the great senators who have served in this chamber. and who has a real sense of identification with those who fought against predatory interests. to the point that it is almost a populist tradition which the senator carries in his character. especially coming from where he does. and a person like myself. who has had big business experience. who has a certain sense of the industrial processes. the banking processes. and the credit processes. and ks how they work. and who sees how the fundamental thrust of business in the public interest as the hope of mankind can best be realized through the stock corporation. and multiple ownership. which it makes possible. we have come almost unconsciously to that kind of consensus. this is to me one of the exciting aspects of my service in the senate. i wanted the senator from oregon to k how good i felt about it.
 hubert humphrey. the company held its first board of directors meeting in paris on september 30. 1964. selected its officers. and annced that more than $16 million has already been subscribed. today. adelas capital subscriptions have risen to $31 million. with $13 million subscribed by u.s. firms. $3 million each by canadian and spanish firms. $2.5 million by swedish corporations. and $2.1 million by swiss companies. with lesser subscriptions by corporations and banks from 12 other nations. adelas 54member corporations today include companies from belgium. denmark. finland. west germany. italy. japan. luxembourg. the netherlands. way. spain. sweden. switzerland. britain. canada. and the united states. at its january 22 meeting in brussels representatives of firms associated with the adela effort met to organize an international program of private financial and technical assistance for latin america. the company already received more than 50 requests for investment or technical cooperation. one investment. totaling $500.000 in a colombian steel plant. has already been approved. the significance of the adela investment co. stems from the fact that it is the first major effort of leading elements of private business and banking in europe. the united states. and latin america. to come to the aid of the private enterprise system in a vitally important underdeveloped area of the world. latin america. it signals a partnership between private enterprise of the industrially developed and the underdeveloped world which. i am convinced. holds within itself. the key to success of the free world. i ask unanimous consent that the report on its meeting in brussels. as published in the new york times. be made a part of my remarks.
i testified yesterday before the committee on banking and currency. which in the course of colloquy came forth with an interesting idea which i should like to propose to the senator. because he may just wish to comment on it. that is the thought that if we moved promptly into the international area to try to correct the world situation which results from the fact that our imbalance in international payments is what is sustaining the credit and trade of the world todaywithout which the world could  carry on its businesswe could carry the present rate of this imbalance for a period of a few years. rather than to engage in the dislocations which in almost every case are more serious than the difficulties of carrying the imbalancedislocations which we would put into effect if we take the measures  under discussion.
 mayand i refer to the language on page 19. lines 8 to 12determine that such constructionnamely that "fair market value" means the current domestic price or aboveis inconsistent with the purposes of this act. in that connection. would it be considered one of the purposes of this act to dispose of. in a very constructive way. surpluses which were of use to the united states in the stockpiling program.
the people who have money in the banks and who own government bonds do  seem to be panicked. they have over $300 billion worth of bonds. including series e bonds. which can be cashed. unless one wishes to forfeit some interest for 10 years or more. they are  worried about the gold reserve requirement. the bankers of the world own $22 billion worth of calls on the u.s. treasury. i do  see many of them. principally one man. de gaulle. who is making a grandstand play. calling for the gold.
if we take off the shackles from our hands as to what we can do about money. we still have gold in our reserve. we have four times as much as france. we have approximately seven times as much as italy. we have approximately three to four times as much as germany. we still have 35 percent of the free worlds official gold reserves. the fact is. if we should  artificially impose restrictions upon ourselves. we would be restraining ourselves from keeping pace with our own ecoic expansion. as bankers. we would be restraining ourselves from the liquidity of our own assets to meet our own liabilities. it is impossible to justify tying our own hands and rendering ourselves unable to meet our own liabilities. the answer is that the treasury department recognizes the fact that there are still many people who worship the golden calf. but. according to an excellent banking authority. we should untie our hands in respect to gold.
s program to lift the nation out of its present inadequate ecoic growth situation. along with a new approach to serious nationalinterest strikes. and labormanagement relations in general. america must stay competitive in the world even as it struggles to achieve a fully stable. viable. ecoy at home. we are remiss. i believe. if we do  examine very carefully those forces throughout the ecoy that inhibit competitiveness and growth. in the last analysis the emous job of studying. recommending. and enacting the antitrust laws is with the congress. the tendency has been in recent years for a major part of antitrust policy to be articulated by the enforcement agencies and the courts. the commission. i propose. would reassert a firm congressional voice in basic antitrust policy. i believe an antitrust revision ranks as one of the important incentives to our nations urgently needed increase in ecoic growth.
the introduction of this bill is an example of the fact that senators from the same statewhatever may be their party affiliation. generallyclose ranks when it comes to an intrastate problem and one relating to development and beautification in that state. i believe that is an excellent practice. i am pleased to have been able to join my colleague from new york in the introduction of the proposed legislation. i k that it represented a considerable effort and some little time on his part to meet some of my views part of the way so that we could join and get the added strength which comes from bipartisan action. i am very pleased to see it. and i express the hope that it is auspicious for similar efforts in other matters. there are many areas where such action is necessary. for almost any activity of the federal establishment directly affects new york. i should like to say one added word about the measure. which was the subject of an additional statement which i issued. and which my colleague was kind egh to issue with his own. the state of new york is deeply interested in this matter. that does  mean that our views and those of the state will necessarily be the same. for example. a difference of view has developed on the building of a powerplant along the shores of the hudson. application for which is  pending before the federal power commission. i am as concerned as my colleague.  only for ourselves. but for all america. about the fact that whatever happens. there should be harm or damage of an irremediable character to the beauty of this superbly scenic area. in the main. the hudson river valley is within the limits of the state of new york. though we are somewhat disturbed and troubled by what has happened in connection with the palisades. which are in new jersey. the main part of the river which is so beautiful and its banks occur within the state of new york. therefore. there is an opportunity. and i believe a real responsibility. for the state of new york to do a good deal about this itself. the state has indicated that it is getting ready to do this. perhaps by the designation of a permanent state commission. but i have felt that we ought to get started. because the federal interest is very clear. as was shown. for example. by the fire island bill. which has since become law. and represented something of the same kind of effort to preserve a naturally beautiful area. i believe that we should launch a federal effort. which looks auspicious. and that we should then say to the statewhich i  do"come along and show us what you can or will do. so that you may fit into the pattern of the ultimate objective. which is the preservation of the beauty of this great area." i reserve. with the entire acquiescence of my junior colleague from new york . the right to seek to amend the bill if the state should desire to participate in an effort to carry out its responsibility and its functions. because i believe in the philosophy of government kn as the lincolnian belief or the lincolnian theory. which should dominate my party. the essence of that philosophy is that when a state can do for itself as well or at all what needs to be done in the interest of the whole nation. the nation itself must do it. in this instance. i do  favor delay. that is why i have joined. currently. in the bill introduced by the junior senator from new york. neither do i favor waiting on the state in an improper way. but i am for saying to the state. "by all means. you are  barred merely because we have introduced proposed legislation. we would like to see your plan and work together with you." there is reason why there should  be a federalstate project. other elements of the government may join together in order to achieve a great objective. to preserve a national treasure. even though it may be located within a single state. we have seen such action taken in the western states with respect to our national parks. so i welcome the move of the junior senator from new york. and i join in it. i merely point out that it still is possible to accommodate a concomitant state initiative within the framework of the plan. that is the main reason why i reserve the plivilegeperhaps the senator would even join me in it if the occasion were right. for i do  believe we differ as to the fundamental philosophyto revise the bill and reshape it to suit. what i very much invite. the added action and added initiative on the part of the state of new york. which seems to be coming to fruition. for that we should. therefore. leave the door wide open.
. i call the attention of my colleagues to a rather important development in the field of eastwest trade. namely. the anncement yesterday by the soviet union to join the international agreement on patents. while other east european communist nations have been members of the pact for many years. the soviet union refused to adhere to it for reasons of its own and thereby lessened confidence of western businessmen in the soviet unions willingness to conduct its commercial relations on the basis of rules widely accepted among major trading nations. the soviet unions annced intention to submit itself to accepted international procedures regarding patents is a significant development as it could be interpreted as an indication that the u.s.s.r. is  willing to consider negotiations with the west concerning such other commercial impediments to the malization of trade between the east and the west as: first. the lack of access of western businessmen to the plants and industries they serve in the soviet union. second. the absence of impartial arbitration in the settlement of commercial disputes between state moolies and western businessmen. and third. the unwillingness of the soviet union to adhere to gatt rules on dumping and market disruption. the problem of compensating the copyrights of western authors also remains a major problem that has defied solution despite efforts by such prominent americans as john steinbeck. robert frost. and adlai stevenson to persuade soviet authorities to agree to an equitable settlement to this problem. i have long urged western negotiations with the soviet union on these commercial problems on the basis of a code of fair trade practices. and i urge again that this new development be utilized for negotiations on this basis. i ask unanimous consent to have included in the record at the conclusion of my remarks an article and an editorial from the new york times of march 17. 1965. entitled "moscow agrees to sign international patent pact" and "u.s.s.r.s new patent policy."
 of the interamerican council of commerce and productioncicypand david rockefeller. chairman of the newly created council for latin america. in this connection i wish to mention also the organization last september of the private. miltinational adela investment co.. one of the most important initiatives of private enterprise in developing the ecoic potentials of latin america. the major unresolved problem facing the hemisphere today is ecoic integration. while lafta and the central american common market have made great strides during the past there can be effective ecoic integration and policy coordination in latin america without the full and unequivocal support of the political leadership of the hemisphere. the need for such support today is more clear than ever before. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times of march 16. 1965. entitled "alliance record pleases experts." be printed at this point in the record.
s program may have. he pointed out: to halt capital flows to europe at this time by voluntary restrictions. taxation. or otherwise. is to tighten interest rates in europe. at long term. rather than at short. there are plenty of shortterm funds. as evidenced by the dollars held by the private market and those that could be acquired by the banking system from official holders. the need is rather for longterm funds. a reduction in their amount may cut investment. produce recession. and put real. instead of liquidity balanceofpayments pressure on this country. i am concerned that our balanceofpayments measures may push europe into deflation. which would create real balanceofpayments surpluses. dr. kindleberger might have ed the likelihood of a spillover into our own ecoy of deflation in western europe.  only do these considerations lend urgency to the need for basic reform of the system. but they also make more likely the reaching of an international agreement. once a dollar shortage begins to threaten. european nations will show a greater willingness to make significant progress in bringing up to date a monetary system that was created to serve the entirely different world ecoy that existed at the end of world war ii. some of the international monetary issues that are emerging are effectively discussed by bernard d. siter. in an article published in the washington post of march 13. 1965. and by murray j. rossant. in his column in the new york times of march 22. 1965. i ask unanimous consent that these articles and one from the new york times of march 24. and an editorial from the washington post of march 18. 1965. be printed in the record.
s request. american corporations and banks must do more of their borrowing in europe. and. since european demand for credit is already heavy. american requests inevitably drive up rates further. with an easy money policy at home. there is every likelihood that private capital will continue to seek the higher rates offered abroad. as one european central banker expressed it: cheap money is  a matter of sound reasoning in the united states. it is an article of faith. low interest rates at home. together with voluntary restrictions on the outflow of capital. are creating additional pressures on american businessmen to place their funds in foreign markets. i ask unanimous consent that mr. rossants article. from the may 12. 1965. issue of the new york times. be printed in the record.
. include support of the establishment of such a commission. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a thoughtful and detailed letter sent to me concerning the establishment of a commission on the revision of our antitrust laws from david r. macdonald. of chicagoa distinguished member of the illis bar.
. i suggest to senators that all of us can be nupro tunc. i wish to include my happy birthday wish to the senator from virginia . i have served under him as a member of the committee on banking and currency. i can attest to his youth. his mettle. and his spirit. there is man with whom i would rather disagree than the senator from virginia. because he is so very pleasant. kind. and understanding about it. he is also a great sportsman. today. i certainly join in paying tribute to him. as one who serves with him. who has observed his sterling qualities. and has come to admire him greatly. i wish him a happy birthday. as we say in my faith. until 120.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide civil redress to persons damaged by unfair commercial activities in or affecting commerce. recommended by the committee on trademarks and unfair competition of the association of the bar of the city of new york. the bill is designed to create a uniform body of federal law on unfair competition. enforcible in the federal courts. in cases where interstate commerce is affected. the bill has been previously introduced both by myself and by congressman lindsay in the house. in the 88th congress. hearings were held on the bill by the subcommittee on commerce and finance of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. testimony in support of the bill was provided by the chairman of the section of patent. trademark and copyright law of the american bar association expressing the approval of the american bar association. the bill has received additional attention by the committee on trademarks and unfair competition of the association of the bar of the city of new york. and slight modifications suggested by it have been incorporated. a parallel measure has also been introduced in the house by congressman lindsay.
i am much interested by the language in the amendment. on page 2. lines 6 and 7. "without financial assistance from the united states." does that mean exactly what it says: that if the assistance from the united states is an infinitesimal part of the research work which results in an invention. etheless the patent is in the public domain.
. i believe that this question is important. and that we could clarify it if the occasion were to require. i have a question of substance to put to the senator. i believe the senator ks of my sympathy for the general social position for which he stands. so i am  speaking adversely. the senator has been arguing with great eloquence about the arrogation of patent rights. in a manner of personal aggrandizement. by companies which have been contracting with the government. the senator has been arguing that this proposal is in the interest of the people. and that the patents should be in the public domain. we are all practical men. we k that a patent is worth hing unless it is exploited. developed. refined. and techogically worked out so that it is workable. every patent requires that. will the senator address himself to this question: if we were to adopt the basic policy which the senator has advocated here so eloquently and for so long. would we be depriving the people of the united states. when we put all the patents in the public domain. of the expertise. the investment. the intelligence. the ingenuity. and the work which goes into making patents mean something in terms of cheaper and better products for the people of the country. by eliminating the private interest. would we  lose something because of the lack of care in developing the patent since it would then be in the public domain.
my question was broader. can there  be written into the waiver. under the language of the amendmentalthough the language of the amendment is narrowcompulsory licensing. to avoid losing the patent rights. or even to recapture them. if the waiver is  exploited or used.
 and the congress further means for bringing about the most effective utilization of private enterprise in the achievement of the basic objectives of the u.s. foreign aid program. the committee must by law submit its final report by june 30. 1965. the committee report comes at a time when it could be of material assistance in strengthening and modernizing this crucial effort. fifth. on may 19. 1965. i introduced a bill. s. 1992. which would provide a new approach in governmentprivate enterprise cooperation in the field of foreign ecoic assistance. the bill is cosponsored by senators cooper. hartke. morse. pell. and scott and has been referred to the senate foreign relations committee for consideration. i believe that the 1960s call for the introduction of new concepts for the channeling of private and public capital and technical khow from the developed to developing countries which are struggling to develop their ecoies in a democratic framework. the federally chartered peace by investment corporation which would be created under this bill. extends the concept of governmentprivate enterprise cooperation embodied in comsat by joining private effort and the national purpose. this corporation would tap very large private resources. mostly millions of small investors. for the purpose of sound investment in developing countries.
what i am  purr suing as a further point is this: if at a later date it should appear that a bank was violating the antitrust law. there is hing in the bill to prohibit the department from acting in such a situation.
with respect to the social phases. we must  seek to do anything which would be harmful to mergers which were consummated within the spirit and intent of the law. i was a member of the committee which wrote the present law. i believe we should let the operation be prospective. especially with respect to the validity of the concept of the antitrust laws as they apply to mergers. as well as to the future actions of merged banks.
general de gaulle is sul juris. as we lawyers say. we may have to pay him out in full. as has sometimes happened in international affairs. the person who collected has been the first to go broke. other than that. we have been remarkably successful in making the central banks relieve us of that fear. i do  believe. however. that the central banks of the world have gone "nuts" in terms of jeopardizing the very dollar upon which they depend. i shall submit my own prescription. and i hope that the senator will consider it and engage in some discussion of it.
i agree with everything the senator from wisconsin says. the british situation is  spelled out in as much detail as it should be in this speech. i hope to do so in aher speech separate from this one. the british have  had the leaders in cost cutting and efficiency which we have had and. at the same time. they have  enforced their antitrust laws. the family firms embedded deeply in the british ecoic system are embedded there for the peculiar reason of antitrust enforcement. therefore. they have been able to engage in moolistic practices which have kept inefficient companies alive. whereas. the competitive factor of the u.s. antitrust laws compels companies to either get out or consolidate because of the tough competition which they face. we have here aher side of the cointhe failure to have effective antitrust lawswhich has led to the incrustation in british business of a vast element of traditional businesses which can stand the shock of modern competition. accordingly. when i say "consolidate." what i really should have said is. "let in the air of competition. as we do in this country. in order to bring about the weeding out of the weak and the inefficient. which is taxing the british ecoy artificially and heavily." that is really what it comes down to. by emphasizing the presence in industry of vast numbers of family firms which have become archaic and obsolescent. we do  have that in this country in big. tough competitive business. we have a great deal of it in the retail and distribution market. but in britain it is inherent in the whole basic industrial complex. which is taxing britain very heavily. of course. this is e of our business. we have right to say what the british should do. i only point out some of the problems which are troubling british credit as well as british firms. however they wish to solve those problems. that is their choice. but. in any case. we have a right to invite their attention to some of the problems. as we see them. at the same time that we assume the posture which i am assuming.
the senator from delaware takes exception to the amendment on the ground that power would be given to the president to increase or decrease taxes. . a bill. h.r. 5280. passed by the senate on august 12. a provision which would exempt banks and other financial institutions from the antitrust laws which were parties to the voluntary restraint program. in that bill the president was given the power to suspend that exemption if he thought it advisable. when i submitted my amendment. i was counting on that proviso. the senator from delaware . stated that he realized that. but. that he is  happy about it. he feels strongly about giving the president such authority in a tax bill on constitutional grounds. he does  want a breach in that dike. therefore. we have been talking about the possibility of modifying my amendment to provide for a 1year rather than a 2year extension. that is why i took the position that i did. i believe the senator from florida is satisfied that i did  interrupt him in vain.
. what has been done here to revise the antitrust laws will be of great benefit to professional sports and with respect to the whole temper in which the sports are carried on in the united states. . it is critically important to my city and state. i am delighted that it has been done finally. i congratulate the senator from michigan . who has done a splendid job in piloting through the senate intricate and difficult legislation. which will be of great value to millions of americans. young and old alike. who will thank him for having brought regularity and order to what has often been the subject of uncertainty. i also congratulate one of the ranking republican members of the committee . who cooperated in the successful handling of the bill.
. i call the attention of the senate to a very important statement by the senator from wisconsin on s. 1698 the socalled bank merger act. passed on june 11 by the senate and which was submitted to the house committee on banking and currency. opposition to the bill was expressed as well as expressions of strong support. i ask unanimous consent that. for the benefit of senators should this legislation return in the form of a conference report. this statement may be printed at this point in the record.
. i send to the desk a bill. for myself and on behalf of senators hartke. cooper. morse. pell. and scott. which would create a federally chartered peace by investment corporation. the bill in its present form contains certain revisions of s. 1992. which i introduced on may 19 with the same cosponsors. these revisions were undertaken as a result -of a colloquy between myself and the chairman of the foreign relations committee on june 14. at that time i had agreed to do my utmost to work out with aid and private experts certain technical problems in the bill in such a way that when it comes before the senate or an ad hoc subcommittee of the foreign relations committee the details of the bill will be settled and the questions which it will be called upon to consider and advise the foreign relations committee about will be the basic concept involved. at that time senator fulbright assured me that he will do his best to have a hearing on the bill before adjournment. senator morse. a cosponsor of the bill and a member of the foreign relations committee. also expressed the belief that hearings on this bill .could be held before adjournment. in view of the unavoidable delay involving the revision of this bill i realize the difficulty the foreign relations committee would have in holding hearings on this bill before adjournment. however. i hope that hearings will be possible on this bill during the adjournment period. i would  like to explain briefly the two changes made in s. 1992: first. the basic functions of the corporation are further clarified by specifically indicating. first. that investments or loans made by the corporation would be made to finance undertakings of a profitmaking nature. second. that emphasis would be placed on investments in small and moderate sized businesses. and third. that the corporation. in addition to making investments and loans. would provide technical assistance. authority provided by s. 1992. for the corporation to act as an investment trust and to establish two insurance systems. has been deleted. however. when the corporation is transferred to private ownership and management as provided by section 6 of -the bill. it would be empowered in addition to the corporate powers and -duties set forth by section 7 of the bill to exercise the functions of an investment trust and to establish such insurance systems as may be deemed in furtherance of the purpose of this act. second. a change was also made in section 4 of the bill dealing with the basic financing .of the corporation. section 4(b) of s. 1992 would have authorized the corporation to offer for public sale a total of $2 /2 billion worth of class b stock. valued at $5 per -share. limiting the total :amount of such stock outstanding at any time to $1.25 billion and to $375 million in any 1 year. in order to alleviate the relatively large risk taken by a large number of small investors who would invest their funds in class b stock. section 4(b) of the bill was modified as follows: the corporation would  be authorized to sell to the public debentures in deinations of $5. or any multiple thereof. these debentures would be fully -and unconditionally guaranteed as to principal by the u.s. government. the aggregate amount of the bonds would be limited to $375 million in any one year and the total amount outstanding at any time would be limited to $1.25 billion. the corporation would be authorized at the option of the holder of these bonds to exchange such bonds for class b stock which the corporation may issue subject to the approval of the secretary of the treasury. i very much hope that this measure will  be given full and careful hearings by the senate foreign relations committee before the end of 1965.
 of the seriousness of the situation and have asked his help in the matter. i ask my colleagues to join with me in seeking prompt action by the administration in order to place the small business direct loan program on its feet.
. i ask unanimous consent to add my name as a cosponsor of s. 2729. a bill to amend the small business act. as a member of the select committee on small business. i have sought for some time  to get the small business administration to seek supplemental appropriations in order to fund the direct loan program which exists pursuant to section 7(a) of the small business act. as of this time the administration has  made any attempt to correct the situation which certainly invokes hardships on great numbers of small businessmen in this country who are unable to get direct loans due to the lack of funding. lack of available funds for the direct loan program is to a great extent caused by the increased needs for disaster and which has drained the financial resources of the sba. in fact. since last october the sba has  only failed to make any direct business loans pursuant to section 7(a) of the act but has  even taken applications for such loans. to prevent this type of situation from arising in the future. i recommend to my colleagues s. 2729 which would separate the revolving funds under the small business act so that the sba could  reach into direct business loan funds even in the case of heavy disaster loan requirements. a separate supplemental appropriation would be required in case of excess demand for disaster loans. under the provisions of this bill. the direct business loan program which is so critical to so many small businessmen would remain inviolate regardless of the financial situation in the various other loan programs. specifically. s. 2729 would establish three separate revolving funds rather than the one  provided in the small business act. it provides for one revolving fund for direct business loans under section 7(a). prime contract authority under section 8(a) of the small business act. and loans under title iv of the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 in the amount of $1.075 million. a second revolving fund is set up for disaster loans under section 7(b) and section 7(b) (2) of the small business act in an amount of $300 million. finally. a separate revolving fund for the programs under the small business investment act of 1958with the exception of title iv of that actin an amount of $461 million is also provided. the bill sets the amounts of loans. guarantees. and commitments that may be outstanding at any one time under each fund. i urge my colleagues to join in protecting the direct business loan program so that it may have the necessary resources in the future to carry out its important function.
. i think i was responsible for the argument about unscrambling the eggs in the merged banks. i k a good deal about this subject. being from new york. the senator speaks of the new provisions introduced in the house as justifying something that was  done before. that does  mean it is wrong . but i think we ought to have our minds clear on why we did what we did. is it  a fact that the house has added antitrust safeguards to the bill. which safeguards were  contained in the measure when it left the senate. there is less reason  for feeling that the antitrust laws are being laid aside as far as banks are concerned if we pass this measure than there was when the bill formerly left the senate. the bill then did  have a provision which would entitle the department of justice to sue in a freeze period. the department of justice  has a 30day freeze period within which it can sue and join issue. as i understood it when the measure left the senate before. the department of justice had the right to give an advisory opinion to the central banking authority. i suppose it could have sued before the banking authority rendered an opinion. the department of justice  has a guaranteed 30day freeze period within which they can be bypassed.
. they ought to have a bill. we are hoing them. except that we are setting a standard for the courts to observe which is even superior because of the nature of the banking business and the antitrust criteria. they will have an opportunity to go into the courts for evaluation. and the courts are  bound to accept the findings of the regulatory agency as conclusive. for those reasons i feel justified in supporting the motion of the senator from virginia to concur in the house amendment and get this law settled.
. then senator humphrey. as well as the chairman of the senate small business committee. senator sparkman. the ranking miity member of the committee. senator saltonstall. and other distinguished senators. the logical. compelling arguments advanced and accepted when the legislation was enacted are even more valid today for we have had the experience of time to confirm the wisdom of these views. the small business administration revolving fund authorization for fiscal year 1966 is $1.841 million. it has requested a fiscal year 1967 authorization for this fund of $1.966 million. there are six major programs of loan assistance administered today by the small business administration. including the direct business loan program. title iv of the ecoic opportunity act. displaced business and disaster loans and natural and ecoic disaster loans. that these programs have had an important impact and beneficial effect  only for small business. but for the general public as well. is evident. that these results are due in large measure to the status of the small business administration as an independent agency is also clear. as i stated on the floor of the senate last month. i am very concerned over the lapse of the direct business loan program occasioned by the moratorium imposed on october 15. 1965. there is perhaps program administered by the small business administration which is more important to the welfare and vitality of small business: these loans have enabled the creation of new business and the expansion of old. their benefits have been far reaching beyond ecoic assistance to loan recipients. they have resulted in ecoic improvement. through expansion of employment and increased purchasing power. we are all witnesses to their impact. the small business administration gave recognition to this as recently as february 7. 1966. in its press release  1783. this statement cited the considerable advantages and benefits realized under the direct loan program. the basis of this statement was a sampling which showed that small business administration loans totaled $14.2 million. enabling 145 small firms to hire 2.740 additional employees and nearly to double their sales. the release cited statistics to illustrate that these firms increased their employment 40 percent. and their gross sales 43 percent to a total -of $132 million annually. they have already paid back. with interest. $6.2 million of the $14.2 million borrowed. the release stated: while the sample is. of course. too small to give an accurate and total measure of the ecoic benefits resulting from sba loans. it does provide proof that small business administration loans have a measurable impact in the community where they are made. in spite of these benefits. the small business administration has seen fit to suspend its direct loan program. the support and sympathy of the congress for the business loan program as well as other programs of the small business administration are a matter of historical record. there is perhaps other department or agency of the government which has enjoyed a better reception in the congress than does the small business administration in its requests for funds to conduct it activities. evidence of- this is shown in the favorable response to the two requests of the small business administration in calendar year 1965. for supplemental appropriations. these became public law 8916 on april 30. 1965. for $100 million .and public law 89309 on october 31. 1965. for $160 million. however. neither of these supplemental appropriations contained funds for the direct loan program since in both cases request therefor was made by the small business administration. i hope earnestly that appropriate and needed action will be taken soon to restore the small business administration as an effective agency for rendering necessary and proper assistance to the small business community.
i can agree with the senator on that. i stated the german situation. since the credit. as part of the foreign aid items. i do  think should be credited. but there are many other items and the fact is. considering the organization and the european ecoy. private corporation in germany would be a part of this corporation except that the government wanted it to be. the government. i understand. also makes contributions. i think that this is a system different from our own. but it does have the advantage of permanence which ours does  have.
he has to come back for an appropriation ever year. and there is a builtin inhibition against him. and he can use more than a proportion of that $50 million in any year. this limits him. he only has flexibility within 15 percent of the appropriation. the senator is on the committee on banking and currency. he did the same thing with urban renewal. for the same reason. because he felt that occasionally a project comes along that is worthy egh to deserve more money than the 12.5percent limitation would give it. as these are bigcity problems and the situation involves large sums of money.
. i am today introducing legislation to provide federal regulation for foreign banking corporations doing business in the united states and its territories. under present law. foreign banking in the united states is regulated by the states. this arrangement fails to take into account the foreign policy and foreign trade implications of the international banking industry. and causes some foreign governments to impose unnecessary restrictions on u.s. banking corporations doing business abroad. under existing law any foreign banking corporation desirous of doing business in the united states must obtain permission from the individual state in which it seeks to open its branch. agency. or controlled subsidiary. accordingly. i am informed that the state department has had to explain to many unbelieving foreign banking concerns proposing to do business in the united states that the federal government has control over the right of entry or of supervision over such activities. although the constitution provides that the congress has responsibility for august 25. -1966 controlling money and for managing the international monetary affairs of the nation. e of the various federal banking agenciesthat is. comptroller of the currency. federal reserve. fdichas any jurisdiction over foreign banks. yet these same agencies account for 98 percent of domestic deposits. at a time when the nation is deeply concerned about the interest equalization tax. the voluntary credit restraint program and other measures concerning our domestic ecoy and balance of payments. it is incompatible with the national interest that state banking authorities should still maintain complete regulatory authority and control over admittance of foreign banks. it is in the public interest to have federal supervision of the foreign banks because of the degree of kledge and expertise required to appraise various applications as well as to examine and regulate foreign institutions. because these activities constitute such a small proportion of the supervisory functions of any state. the desired specialization in the international banking field has  been developed. national regulation of foreign banks should encourage other nations to grant reciprocal privileges to our banks which operate or wish to operate abroad. it may on occasion be necessary to deny some foreign bank entry to do business in the united states. such a refusal should originate at the federal level where foreign policy implications may be assessed. under present law. foreign banks can open branches only in massachusetts. new york. and oregon. if our policy is to deny branch banking facilities to foreign banks. then. on the same theory. u.s. banks can be deprived of the right to open new branches or to continue operating in foreign countries. the policy contained in the legislation is an attempt to arrive at a compromise between the advocates of unlimited entry and those who would severely restrict access according to the will of the state in which the bank is to do business. the proposal establishes the following regulations: first an approval procedure. followed by periodic examination similar to that of national banks. second a firmbut appealablerevocation and suspension procedure. and third reapproval every 5 years. there will doubt be much debate over some of the details of this legislation. but my intention is to arouse sufficient interest in the general proposition to which the bill is committed. that is. the federal government must take over this important function. the idea has been brilliantly set out by prof. jack zwick of columbia university in a paper entitled "foreign banking in the united states" prepared for the joint ecoic committee of the congress. mr. zwick points out that foreign banks would  be a threat to the small depositor oriented bank. but rather foreign banking operations would likely be limited to a handful of major citiesmainly foreign trade centerswhere it would be ecoical to operate. iin concluding his paper. professor zwick sums up his case for federal chartering of foreign banks. as follows. the recommendation for free entry -and equal access for foreign banks appears to be supported by past performance. especially in the states whose foreign banking laws are most liberal. both bankers and supervisory officials argue that the advantages gained by the states and the country as a whole far outweigh the disadvantages. the foreign banks have contributed to the development of new york and san francisco as centers of international finance and trade. a byproduct of this development has been the expansion of trade in which u.s. firms have been important participants and which several domestic banks have financed to an increasing degree. the foreign banking institutions have introduced new financial instruments in the trade financing field and. thus. have complemented the activities of domestic banks. there has been little evidence or complaints of competitive developments unfavorable to the domestic banks. and most banks report improved correspondent relations since the establishment of foreign banking institutions here. in certain instances the foreign banks have provided personal banking services to ethnic groups who otherwise would have been denied these services and who probably would have held some of their money outside the banking system. finally. it has been ed that the existence of foreign banks here and branches and subsidiaries of u.s. banks overseas probably has had favorable payments effects. i hope that this proposal will receive the attention which it deserves. i ask unanimous consent that the bill lay on the table until the close of business. tuesday. september 6. for additional cosponsors. i also ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in its entirety in the record following my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent that the names of the senator from colorado . and myself. be added as cosponsors to resolution 30 to amend the standing rules of the senate. relative to select committee on small business which has been submitted by the senator from vermont . with his permission.
. i wish to make a brief statement upon the great deal of newspaper speculation that has been inherent in a measure which i am preparing for introduction. a revision of a proposal which i introduced last year. and which involves our brothers and friends in canada. last year i introduced legislation to provide federal regulation for foreign banking corporations doing business in the united states. i intend to introduce this month a similar proposal. i have. however. decided to make certain revisions in the bill in order to establish the proper balance between the proposed federal control. and the recognized state regulatory interest in the field. also. whatever form my proposal does take at the time of introduction. it will. of course. have to face the careful consideration of committee hearings. this anncement also gives me the opportunity to deal with a spate of rumors regarding this bill insofar as our good neighbor canada is concerned. i wish to make it clear that this legislation is domestic legislation. and will . and does  propose to influence the consideration by any government. of any law. or regulation regarding foreign banking branches or foreign ownership of banks. canadian or otherwise. the proposed revision of the bill gives me the opportunity to make clear that this legislation stands on its own. and should  have any effect upon the sovereign authority of the united states or canada. the united states and canada. respectively. have the sovereign right to consider any standard each deems proper. and permitted by lawincluding the grant of reciprocal privileges by other nationsas an element of its national policy in chartering new banks. and regulating existing banks. my bill would allow a federal regulatory presence in such activities. the bill accordingly should be taken on its merits for it is intended to improve. and assist international banking activities in the united states as a matter of purely domestic concern to impede these operations or to affect the consideration by any sovereign government as to what should be its policy in this matter.
s is an historic opportunity to deal with the manyfaceted ecoic and social problems which piled up during the first 5 years of the alliance for progress. it has become clear to me that without a .latin american common market fully supported by the united march 13.. 1967 states. latin americas ecoic and social ills can be solved. true. there is assurance that once such a market is established and other supporting measures are instituted. these problems will disappear overnight. i am convinced. however. that without .a drastic new departure embodied in the common market approach. the continent will be faced with increasing instability and violence. two additional elements are needed to make a latin american common market a success: the full support of the private enterprise community and the cooperation of the industrialized nations of the west. particularly canada. western europe. and japan. their full cooperation is of critical importance.
s of the latin american republics. a onceinalifetime conference. a frame of reference in which there could be the beginning of the establishment of a common market for latin america. this is a great opportunity. in which the full backing of the united states is essential. and which the latin american nations could  undertake without. because they would  attempt to do it without such help.
my answer to that is that i do  k of any that has done so. but i do  think that answers the question. for two reasons. first. the resolution passed by the other body does  represent a commitment on the part of congress to back up the president with any certain amount of money or any particular authority. it is hing but a commitment to back the general principle. which i think is essential. the idea that congress is saying that there is a holding off by an independent branch of government in order to look over what the president may do in punta del este is great. but it is  great if it defeats the essential policy. i think the president needs some commitment in order to subserve this policy. the commitment is hing but an agreement in principle. that a latin american common market is a desirable thing and that we ought to do what is necessary to make it successful. that is all the house of representatives resolution says. it does  say under what conditions or how much. the senator from idaho ks my regard for his conscientious sincerity on foreign policy issues. i do  challenge the sincerity of any member of the committee on foreign relations. they are just as sincere as i am. i affirm that immediately. and that certainly goes for the senator from idaho. what i say is that we make this mistake. and this is what troubles me: i think senators were disturbed by the tonkin gulf resolution. i think senators are disturbed by the fact that the president has carried that faded and worn document in his pocket. and flashes it as complete license to do anything in respect to vietnam. but i think we have some responsibility there. too. in the sense that we did  read the fine print. as the senator ks. i did. and the matter was raised on the floor by the senator from kentucky . but many of us did . the other thing is that we could undo that resolution. although i realize it is  easy. and would be an even worse affront than  giving the president one in the first place. but i favor agreeing to the house resolution. i think that is an adequate commitment in principle. though. king what i do about the situation down there. i am deeply concerned that the latin american presidents will read between the lines that "we do  have to do this ." the situation is difficult. as i have said. in many of their countries. and hence they will  be inclined to go along with this policy. i turn  to the second part of the senators question. and that is why our president thought it necessary. and they did . i think it is fair to say that in the constitutional systems of the american states. i k of ethere may be one or more. there are a lot of states involved. but i k of ewhere the situation is the same as it is here. that is. that the legislature. or the senate. has as great power over any treaty or commitment the president undertakes as we have in this country. the tradition of the "strong presldent"-in some cases it is even a dictatorship. as in argentinawho commits the country. is pretty much the rule in latin america. the legislative bodies there  having nearly the authority we have. therefore. i think it is fairly easy to understand the presidents logic. we are  kidding each other. the fact is that this congress is  wildly enthusiastic about foreign aid. thus. if the president is going down there to do something which may need implementing as a principle commitment and a money commitment. i think he is right to feel that it would be a much more secure thing. in terms of a negotiator who wants to say. "my back is as strong as my front." to have this kind of resolution with him
i think i have understood everything the senator said. when i spoke as i did. i think i spoke in the light of those considerations. for if i were to say that i expected the u.s. senate to underwrite a latin american common market. that would be a blank check. because we may very well turn down a common market treaty. if we are going to be a party to it or in any way support it. that we consider to be inimical to the interests of the united states. but what the resolution of the house of representatives calls for is  that. what it calls for is this: that the congress supports the concept of a latin american common market and. after appropriate steps have been taken toward progressive establishment of such a market. will give full consideration to providing through the interamerican development bank standby resources to be matched by latin american countries to facilitate the transition to a fully functioning latin american common market. in short. we say. ". with our backing you can  negotiate for a common market." i think that is desirable. especially with these few carrots of additional resources for educational and agricultural purposes. they are things that we want. i believe that the senator from idaho wants that also. we want a successful negotiation. and that is the only thing that i have in mind.
. i call attention to what i consider to be a most extraordinary. eloquent. and important declaration by two new york banks. as published in the new york times of today. the chase manhattan bank and the bank of america. in which both declare. as a matter of policy. that in a showdown. the dollar of the united states is superior to gold. and therefore that if there should be a run on gold in this country by the central bankers of the world. to whom we owe over $20 billion. and we should shut down on our gold payments. they express the confidence that our dollar standing will prevail in terms of stability in the world market. and end the myth that gold is needed as an underlying guarantee in the united states. this would be revolutionary and would end all over the world the very depressing and oppressive influence which has dampened down business efforts and the ecoy. to have these two banks declare that as a matter of considered policy is a position which. in my judgment. would evaluate things as they really should be evaluated. and would be more dramatic news than anything else that has happened this year so far as domestic policy is concerned. i ask unanimous consent that the flne news article on the significance of this declaration. written by edwin l. dale. jr.. in this mornings new york times. may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i send to the desk on behalf of the senator from massachusetts . the senator from new york . and myself. a bill to provide for federal regulation of foreign banking corporations doing business in the united states and its territories. the banking worldand many persons in this countrywere stunned by the failure of intra bank. whose new york office held deposits of many individual investors in addition to an estimated $21 million loan from the u.s. commodity credit corporation. i am informed that under ccc regulations the intra bankor any foreign bank with a branch or agency in the united statesis classified as a u.s. bank and. therefore. becomes eligible for creditsin this case for wheatat a rate of interest 1 percent less than a "foreign bank." although intra was treated as any other u.s. bank by the ccc. there was federal supervision whatsoever of the banks activities by any agency of the federal government. i am informed that in spite of its loss in the intra bank situation. the ccc continues to treat foreign agencies or branches as "u.s. banks." federal legislation is needed to protect the private investor as well as the government from such activities and to give added respect to the many foreign banks in this country carrying on highly reputable business transactions. it is in the public interest to have federal supervision of the foreign banks because of the degree of kledge and expertise required to examine and regulate foreign institutions. because these activities constitute such a small proportion of the supervisory functions of any state. the desired specialization in the international banking field has  been developed. although the constitution provides that the congress has responsibility for controlling money and for managing the international monetary affairs of the nation. e of the various federal banking agenciesthat is the comptroller of the currency. federal reserve. the fdichas any jurisdiction over foreign banks. i feel that the legislation is even more necessary in order for us to gain an overall picture of what is happening in the foreign banking field. i have made certain changes from my. proposal on this matter made last year. i think the changes help to make the proposal more practical. while i still feel there is a need for overall supervision by one agency of all activities of foreign banking corkorations bperating within this country. i also believe that the dual banking concept should be applied to branches and agencies of foreign banks. my new proposal would allow a foreign bank to.go either to the state or to the federal govrnment to receive permission to do business in this country. under existing law. only the states can give such permission and only massachusetts. new york. and oregon have done so. a foreign banking corporation which decides to obtain federal permission must apply to the secretary of the treasury who will consider among other things the convenience of the business community where the agency. branch. or controlled subsidiary is to be located. the number of other offices which the foreign banking corporation may have. in a particular state. and whether approval of such an application would be in the national public interest. the national public interest is defined as. among other things. the encouragement of legitimate activities of foreign banks in the united states. the encouragement of other nations to grant reciprocal privileges to banks chartered in the united states which operate or wish to operate abroad. and the promotion of foreign commerce of the united states. in addition. the secretary shall  approve the application of any foreign banking corporation to operate an agency. branch. or controlled subsidiary in any state if. under the laws of such state. an agency. branch. or subsidiary would  be permitted to carry on the business of banking. thus. the foreign banking corporation can only operate where state law specifically does  prohibit its activities and such corporation must also comply with the branching laws of the state in which it will operate. although. there is specific renewal time period contained in the bill. there is a firmbut appealablerevocation and suspension procedure. administratively. thesecretary shall cause the foreign banking corporations to be examined at least as regularly as national banks and also the federal reserve shall set reserve requirements which in event would be lower than those required of national banks. where a foreign bank chooses to go to the state for permission to operate. the bill provides that the secretary of the treasury must determine that the granting of this permission is in the national public interest before the state may grant permission. also the secretary will receive reports of all examinations from the appropriate state banking agency and if necessary conduct examinations of his own--or an authority he may delegateto insure that there is one agency which has some supervision over the activities of all the foreign banks operating within the country. it is too easy under present law for a particular interest to move into two separate states without either of the state authorities king of the dual activities. under my proposal. then. the secretary. will  only examine the banks which have obtained federal permission to operate but also will receive examination reports from state banking authorities regarding operations of foreign banking corporations. who have received permission from the state to operate. if in the view of the secretary. examination reports reveal any agency. branch. or subsidiary is conducting its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. the secretary shall ask the state to take necessary action for the protection of investors. finally. whenever the secretary determines. with the approval of the secretary of state. that continued state permission to operate a certain foreign banking corporation is contrary to the national public interest. he shall so inform the appropriate state banking authority. and that authority shall act to terminate the operations of the foreign banking corporation. there seems reason why the foreign banking corporation should  have the same choice as our domestic banks of whether to go the federal or state route in seeking permission to operate. the distinctions between the foreign and the domestic situation. i think. are settled by giving the federal government a "veto" power over the state when the national public interest is involved. there will doubt be much debate over some of the details of this legislation. but my intention is to arouse sufficient interest in the general proposition to which the bill is committed. that is. that the federal government should oversee foreign banking operations. i intend to seek hearings on this proposal as soon as possible as i believe we must enact a federal law  to better protect our citizens from a repetition of the intra bank closing. the idea behind this proposal has been brilliantly set out by prof. jack zwick. of columbia university. in a paper entitled "foreign banking in the united states." prepared for the joint ecoic committee of the congress. professor zwick points out that foreign banks would  be a threat to the small depositoriented bank. but rather foreign banking operations are likely to be limited to a handful of major foreign trade centerswhere it would be ecoical to operate. although at the present time credit balances of foreign banks represent less than 1 percent of aggregate balances in the states where the foreign banks are located. increased involvement is anticipated in the future. with few exceptions. foreign banks concentrate on the financing of international trade between the united states and their home nations or third countries and operate to a substantial degree with dollar balances obtained from u.s. residents. foreign banks have expanded the volume of international trade and trade financing which domestic bankstogether with branches. subsidiaries. and agencies of foreign bankshave financed to an increasing degree. certain of the foreign controlled subsidiary banks. particularly the puerto rican and israeli banks in new york. and the japanese banks in california. are established principally to serve their respective ethnic communities. these banks have offered banking services. such as installment loans in the case of the puerto rican branches. which domestic banks often did  provide. it is believed that these banks to some extent have attracted "mattress money." which in their absence would have been held outside the banking system. my proposal also calls upon the federal deposit insurance corporation to submit within 90 days to the congress a proposal which would allow those foreign banking corporations who so choose to obtain deposit insurance. in neither new york  california. where domestic bankers were interviewed. have there been complaints regarding competition provided by foreign banks. on the contrary. virtually all bankers have suggested that the existence of foreign banks has increased the prestige of u.s. money markets. expanded the volume of trade financing. and has facilitated the overseas expansion of american banks on a reciprocal basis. the balanceofpayments effects associated with the existence of foreign banks can be assessed unequivocally. the general nature of foreign bank activities here and the fact that the presence of foreign banks here has facilitated the opening of branches and subsidiaries abroad by u.s. banks have contributed to the conclusion which is open to rebuttal: that our balanceofpayments position has been aided. one thing is certainforeign trade has been aided and there the balance of payments in our favor is clear and needs to be increased. the bill has been under preparation by me for a long time. it has been discussed much in the press. i introduce it after having worked out what i considered to be the problems of federalstate relationships and also rebutting any idea that we are seeking to retaliate against canada or any other country in connection with the handling of foreign banks in the united states. i hope very much that early hearings will be had in the committee on banking and currency. i have already acquainted many of the committee members beside senator brooke who serves on the committee with the proposed legislation. i send the bill to the desk and ask that it be appropriately referred.
. today marks the 175th anniversary of the founding of the new york stock exchange. from an original group of 24 merchants who had agreed to meet daily branch offices of member firms who exchange has grown to include 3.800 branch offices of member firms who exchange some 86.000 orders representing $579 million in stocks on an average day. the growth of america has been mirrored in the new york stock exchange. and i think it is fitting that we take a moment to recall that growth here. for this reason i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record an article from the new york times on sunday. may 7. which depicts this growth. . there being objection. the article was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
 to state again. within the present framework of britains pending application to join the european ecoic community. that the united states strongly favors britains entry into the eec. and that we subscribe to the europeanization ofbritain. for britains entry into the cxiii---819part 10 common market has been the longstanding policy of the united states. and we should  be too diffident to say so . we have repeatedly said that we want a strong europe which would be in a position to play a strong and constructive role in world affairs. and to effectuate that objective. we said. beginning with the marshall planwhich i helped bring about as a member of the house foreign affairs committeethat to do that. britain should get into the common market. we should reiterate this . and underscore the fact that britains desire to join europe has our full support. a great power such as the united states should  leave its desires and intentions subject to false interpretation. but should be ready to state a clear position at critical moments such as the present one. we should declare our position that it is in our interest. as it -is in europes interest. that great britain should be a member. because we believe british entry intp.the common market is vital both to britains interests and to. the security. peace. and prosperity of the world. i am convinced that the united kingdom genuinely wishes to join the eec. and that prime minister wilson is ready for it to assume the full obligations of the treaty of rome. i do  believe that britain is required to assume any more or less obligations than the other members of the eec. or to join the market at any price. or to participate in negotiations for a very long time--once they may appear fruitless. i believe that britains biggest proof of "europeanness" is its readiness to accept the treaty of rome. and it has shown other proofs by collaborating with france on the supersonic transport concorde and in its development. its offer of techogical cooperation with the other countries in the eec. its call to.the european free trade association also to join the european ecoic community. and its participation in european space activities. finally. should it. after some months. become clear to the united kingdom that its application will be rejected. the friends of peace and security in the worldand especially the united statesmust be prepared to offer britain an alternative. to enable britain to secure its ecoy. and to enable it.to continue a major role in world affairs. but in the interim. we must do everything we can to encourage and to assist the united kingdom in its present endeavor to join the eec.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from pennsylvania be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide certain federal controls over foreign banking corporations operating within the united states.
is it fair to say that. as a part of the legislative history. the banks can say that there is an open mind in congress. and that the reason the 1972 date is setand that it might even be extendedis to see whether pragmatically this can be worked out. so that by 1972 legal inhibitions and policy inhibitions are gone. and if they are . at least consideration can be given to continuing this practice.
i thank my colleagues. may i ask one other question of the chairman and the ranking miity member of the committee. there is also a feeling in the new york banking community universal. but i believe it deserves a reply on the recordthat it would be more fair and less discriminatory. and that greater comparability would be introduced into the revolving credit proposition. if the 60 percent testthat is. 60 percent repayment within 12 monthswere to be amended to require annual disclosure only if less than 45 percent of the unpaid balance. on an experience basis. were paid off within a 12 month period.
. it seems to me that that is the most eloquent evidence on the subject that there is discrimination in housing. i close as i began by saying that we should  give a dividend or a premium to the legislature of the state of illis for failing to act on this matter as it should. if it really wants this installation. i k that their senators want it. but. apparently. the legislature of the state of illis does . i do  believe that the senate of the united states should give it to them so long as they have in this way defied one of the basic conditions of the grant. i hope that the amendment of the senator from rhode island will be supported.
the senator ks how deeply i feel about the senators amendment. i am wondering how the senator feels about the following suggestion. if we do what the senator suggests we run one danger. and that danger is that diplomatic relations may be unilaterally restored by any of these arab countries. king the senators views as i do. i doubt he would change his mind very much if one or more of those countries had diplomatic relations restored. to qualify for aid. i make that suggestion only because i think all of us interested should give thoughtful consideration to what is the most constructive thing to do at a time when the senator ks and i k that the state department is again playing around with the idea of being "even handed" between the arab states and israel. we k well how bankrupt that policy has been demonstrated to be. but i have made my suggestion for the senators consideration before he actually calls up his amendment with a view toward thinking through whether he would wish to phrase the amendment in some other way.
. a bill of this character is naturally very important to the securities markets and to those who -hold securities. there are millions in our country who do. so i .hope the senator from new jersey will  mind if i ask him a few questions. first. was this measure unanimously -reported from the banking and currency committee._.
the second program in the private enterprise category. for which some $83 million was added to the budget request of $22 million. is the socalled kennedyjavits special impacts program found in title id of the act. many of the changes in this program have come about by virtue of a bill which i introduced entitled "the business and industrial development act." s. 2203. on the ecoic development aspects of that bill were separated in committee from the small business provisions. and senator kennedy and i jointly worked the ecoic development aspects of my bill into the special impacts program. many of these changes were. in fact. within the intent of the special impacts program as enacted last year. but were  implemented by the department of labor. thus. we have  specified that incentives may be provided to business to locate in or near eligible slum and depressed rural areas in order to provide jobs for persons in those areas. unlike the program  in the act. the new version of the special impact program recognizes that rural areas must also be covered. since outmigration from these areas is one of the key causes of urban poverty. and that all installations need  be located in the areas themselves. so long as they provide employment for area residents. thus. it may be preferable. from the point of view of land availability and relocation costs. to place an industrial plant outside the slum and then reimburse a company for providing transportation for its workers. other new provisions added to the special impacts program are a requirement that emphasis be placed on developing ownership and managerial skills among the poor themselves. and an application of other federal resources under urban renewal and the ecoic development act to the special impacts package. we contemplate that the ecoic and small business development aspects of the new program will be delegated to the department of commerce. the third of the new programs encompasses $25 million for small business counseling and technical assistance. to be administered by the department of commerce. under this program. special effort is to be devoted to urban ghetto areas and to using the full resources of the private sector to provide business counseling and training. thus. the bill looks toward the development of an onthejobtraining program for new entrepreneurs in existing businesses. and provides incentives to business -to award subcontracts to enterprises in slums and ghettos and to aid in the upgrading of these potential subcontractors.
i may  have made clear my point on the chickens. it is a fact that u.s. chicken exports to the common market countries have been cut in 1963 by $26 million. but we retaliated against that by cutting $26 million of their exports of brandy. trucks. dextrine. and potato starch to us. that is an entirely different picture than what is before us in the matter of these quotas.
well. i would say to the senator that the words "in order to overcome racial imbalance" mean that the basic purpose of busing must be in order to overcome racial imbalance. but if the the basic purpose of busing is for some other reason. such as overcrowding. and the incidental fallout of that busing may result in overcoming racial imbalance. that would  violate the law. the only reason i ask this question of the senatorhe ks my strong feeling in this and i k his relative to agreeing to a policyis that we can agree to what the language means. that is very important to the administrative officials. i would  have questioned the senator at all. i would have taken my chances with the corporation counsel of the district of columbia had we  come to some meeting of the minds relative to a previous situation in a measure which had exactly the same language. but i am willing to leave the colloquy where it is. i do  think either one of us can change the law by colloquy. i have stated my willingness to accept as a proper interpretation of the languageand i speak as a lawyer as well as a senatorthe construction put on it by myself and the senator from west virginia on aher occasion. that is the only thing i wanted to clarify. i am satisfied that it has been. i am willing to rest the matter at this point.
unfortunately. . when the senator made his argument. he did  quite use it in that way. he was telling us how immoral and iniquitous were the odds. his argument was  directed at whether the banks should or should  handle lottery tickets.
. these institutions are  being discriminated against. for they have other powers which commercial banks do  enjoy. and. therefore. they do  have. according to the determination of the general counsel of the federal home loan bank board. the authority to engage in this type business in new york. but  having authority to engage in this business does  mean that they are being discriminated against.
the state would have to use other means of selling them. it might very well be supermarkets. it might be liquor stores. it might be some other form of establishment. it might be kiosk newsstands. i have idea what the state would do. but i will say to the senator from illis that on the test of respectability. which the senator from wisconsin has set. distribution through banks is the most respectable way in which to sell lottery tickets. indeed. it is the most effective way in which to discourage those who would deal with these tickets improvidently. most people would be very timid about going into a bank to buy lottery tickets when they knew very well in their hearts that they could  afford them. but would feel much more easy about it if the purchasing could be done at the corner periodical stand. or at a supermarket. or at a liquor store. also. the hours would be much more conducive to that kind of rather unthinking gambling. if that is what we want to call it. so on the issue of respectability. the system to which new york would have to go would be less desirable. i think it is a great credit to our state that it acts as it does. as the senator from new hampshire said. both gover rockefeller and i were opposed to the lottery. but this is  a question of our personal view. the people voted for it. and the legislature voted for it. in the most considered ways. by a huge majority. hence it is our duty. and i think it is the duty of the united states. as well.  to obstruct this public policy of a state. the argument must be based upon what is the concept of a government of limited powers. the united states is  all supreme. it is amazing to hear me. a devoted civil rights advocate. argue that. but it is true. i feel that way. i have never challenged the fact that we have to bear the burden of constitutionality. and i think we have to bear the burden of the rightness of federal policy. it seems to me that this bill before us represents a very real case in point. in which people who believe even more strongly than i. will have the opportunity to practice what they preach. on the issue of principle. it seems to me that we are quite unwittingly. in a relatively peripheral matter. opening the door to a tremendously new concept of what it means to regulatein this casethe banks. we could apply the same principle to insurance companies or to railroads. or to many other industries.
. i deeply believe that it is good. sound policy if the board of directors of that bank. which is very much interested in receiving deposits. believe that it is consistent with the policy. the soundness. and the standing of that bank. one has to buy a lottery ticket.  does any bank have to handle this business if it does  wish to. the overwhelming majority of the banks of the state of new york have chosen to do so. and i believe that is the best answer.
. on behalf of myself. the senator from maryland . the senator from kentucky . and the senator from indiana . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to establish a federal commission to carry out a much needed review of the antitrust laws of the united states. and i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
s committee on world ecoic practices. 1959. former gov. thomas e. dewey. 1961. former attorney general herbert brownell. 1962. the white house conference on foreign trade. 1963. and the committee on international trade regulation of the section of international and comparative law of the american bar association. all these experts have concluded that uncertainty about enforcement of u.s. antitrust laws extraterritorially is the greatest single inhibitor to increased foreign trade and investment. the report of the aba committee on trade regulation in 1963. for example. highlighted the following principal specific areas of uncertainty in this field: first. uncertainty as to the terms under which a u.s. business may enter into a joint venture with a competitor. either american or foreign. to engage in business abroad. second. uncertainty as to the extent to which u.s. business may cooperate in association with foreign competitors. even when the association is required or permitted by the laws of the foreign country where the activity takes place. third. uncertainty as to the extent to which a u.s. business may include territorial and other limitations in patents. trademarks. and khow licenses. fourth. uncertainty due to conflicts between antitrust laws of the united states and the laws of foreign countries and most unfortunately. ecoic communities. such as the european common market. and fifth. protests by foreign governments due to extraterritorial application of u.s. antitrust laws to their nationals. other areas for study include first. the extraterritorial application of the antitrust laws where potential united states and european private enterprise cooperate for development of underdeveloped nations. second. the development of business organizations along the lines of the communications satellite corp.. including the possibility of widescale joint cooperative efforts by government and industry in partially public. partially private. corporations to undertake vast ventures in the realm of space and atomic techogy. the size and complexity of the subject matter and the public interest involved in such undertakings may make wholly private ownership unfeasible and the productive capacity of private ownership and techogical risks involved make wholly public ownership unsatisfactory. numerous other potential applications of this el and very hopeful technique make a thorough study of antitrust implications highly important. some legal experts. for example. have stated that the existing laws have contributed to rigid domestic price structures and prevented the ination of marketing techniques and the full utilization of research and development. others claim the uncertainties of post facto antitrust suits or prosecution is very inhibiting to business progress in the public interest. the list of critical cases which the proposed commission would be charged with studying could be elaborated at much greater length. but these are some of the major areas of concern. in the last analysis the emous job of studying. recommending. and enacting the antitrust laws is with the congress. the tendency has been in recent years for a major part of antitrust policy to be articulated by the enforcement agencies and the courts. the commission. i propose. would reassert a firm congressional voice in basic antitrust policy. i offered a similar bill in the 89th congress and other congresses and i hope action will  be taken.
i violently opposed this bill and voted against it and brought about a rollcall vote. and i still oppose it. i shall oppose the conference report. although we all k it is water over the dam. i should like to ask the senator a question about the meaning of this particular provisionthat is. the intent of this change. as i understand it. the conferees were seeking to prevent the authorization from making lawful what might otherwise be unlawful. if. under federal law or state lawin the case of new york state. it would be the state lawthe services which have been specified in the senate bill were lawful. then the banks would be able to carry them on within that state. if in aher state those specified services were unlawful. the banks would  be able to carry them on. i ask the question of the senator because it is rather axiomatic in the law that if you change something from specific to general. it will be assumed that the change means more than it perhaps actually means. unless it is very clear what the change was really intended to do. so i repeat: as i understand it. what the conferees were seeking to do was to prevent the authorization itself from making something lawful which within a given state was unlawful. but they were  intending to make unlawful something which in a given state was perfectly lawful because of this change of the specific to the general.
. by putting this in the report you put it beyond the reach of amendment and you put it beyond the reach of being affected in any way at all except by some other report or legislative history. it amounts to an injunction to the administering agency that will incur the displeasure of the legislative committee in the other body. and perhaps of the other body itself for all we k. although we can tell as this was  susceptible to action on the floor of the house. our approach. as shown by the report. and this was the subject of statement of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania a few months ago. provides that the amount of money which is ultimately arrived at "is to be distributed by program in accordance with the authorization act." that means to all programs. whether they be essentially old programs such as community action or special impact or small business assistance or new programs such as day care. there is also pointed out in our report what is elementary commonsense. our committee states that the oeo should be constantly evaluating its programs and it should weed out those programs which are inefficient and replace them with new or proven programs which are more promising. there are a number of rewritten or new programs in the authorizing legislation which give the director a range of directives. for example. there is a meeting  in session in the conference room of the committee on agriculture. being presided over by the administrator of the small business administration with directors of small business development centers from the slums and ghettos all over the united states. i had the ho to arrange for that meeting myself in which the administrator of the small business administration is seeking to develop with the directors of these small business development centers the best business assistance program for people who live in the slum areas. this program. which is a rewrite of an old program. aims at people who are able to go into business themselves and who could be helped in going into business for themselves by being given technical assistance. this is the kind of creativity and revision which is needed in this program. there is also a great interest in the legislative committee in a bill which originated with the distinguished senator from mississippi to provide emergency food and medical services in the amount of $25 million. since we had found there was starvation in some areas of the united stateswhich was absolutely unbelievable to us. with the help of the distinguished senator from mississippi and the help of many other legislators of good will. we have developed an emergency approach for that problem. i  wish to ask the distinguished senator from rhode island . if he feels free to answer. and i k full well his views on the subject. whether he feels the kind of directive he has in our report to be the more sensible business approach. based upon an evaluation of the worth of all programs. then. i wish to ask the senator whether he feels the effort in the report of the other body to earmark very large sums. well over $1 billion. is  binding on the director of the oeo. in view of the fact that the senate has  taken a different and. i think. far more businesslike course.
when we speak of authorized programs in the committee report. we include even programs in which we have eliminated the concept of floor. that all programs. including previously authorized or old programssuch as community action. special impact. and small business assistanceas well as newly authorized programssuch as emergency food and day careall stand on the same footing in terms of their eligibility for funding.
. it is in this same connection that i wish to offer from our side of the aisle the thought. which i shall press. as i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. of the need for institutionalizing the cooperation between business and the u.s. government in respect to job opportunities and job giving. together with 23 of the members of my party. i introduced a bill in the senate last year establishing an ecoic opportunity corporation. a measure founded upon the principle that such a new corporate institution is needed to assist in channeling the private enterprise system into the solution of social problems. the profit ecoic opportunity corporation. for which i will seek hearings this year. seeks to provide both those things. first. it would serve as a central source of case studies and information for industry and labor on program ideas and sources of federal assistance useful in participating in individual antipoverty efforts. second. aside from this clearinghouse function. the corporation would seek to facilitate ways in which private firms could enter the war on poverty. it would do this in part by publicizing and encouraging the provision of public services on a contract basis by industry. most federal antipoverty programs  offer the possibility to industry to participate through contracts and subcontracts. this form of participation is becoming more prevalent in particular in the area of manpower training. the corporation could also organize subsidiaries which might be joint ventures between it and existing companies for the purpose of developing businesses designed to engage profitably in the war on poverty. i have received a great many communications from business confirming me in my belief that such a corporation is needed to perform these specific functions. as an example of one of those communications i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from the readak corp.. which states that that company is seeking to participate more meaningfully in the solution of the nations social problems but is limited by present law and structures and by a lack of information on how it might help. the position of this company is typical of many firms around the country. i commend this brief letter to the reading of senators in the hope that it may encourage them to support the purposes of s. 2573. a bill to establish an ecoic opportunity corporation.
 of the united states. and it is under consideration by one of the subcommittees of the task force on travel. could  the senator conceive of the fact that through the action of the banks of the united states. working in cooperation with banks in touristobjective countries. it might be possible to take this very plan. which is based only on excess currency. and extend it. perhaps. to other currencies which are  excess. thereby. foreign nations could encourage tourism from the united states. and under our balanceofpayments problems. they would be willing to lend us their money for a long time. such as 20 or 30 yearswe are perfectly good for the moneyand thereby continue tourist interchangeand this may be very much to the interest and the enjoyment of our peoplewithout embarrassing the american balance of payments. so the plan would  necessarily be confined to those countries alone. it would restrict tourist opportunities to imaginative use. rather than to use the discriminatory hand of a consumer tax. which is what the administration is talking about. it would use a little imagination in terms of world finance and world business. it would produce a plan by which both would be served. that is. the ecoy and the problems of our balance of payments. and the opportunities it would afford americans to travel. i might point out. too. that it could be a cooperative arrangement. in which dollars would be made available. that is the big factorthe fact that  egh foreigners are being induced on a concessionary basis to travel in the united states.
. last year my amendment was included in the ecoic opportunity act of 1967. to require the small business administration to increase its efforts in providing management training and technical assistance for miity group businessmen. during the consideration of that amendment and subsequently. i became more aware of the difficulties of miity group and small rural enterpreneurs to become a viable part of our ecoic system. the statistics sharply point up that successful negro. puerto rican. mexican american. and rural white businessmen are hard to find. for example. in new york city only 10 negroowned businesses employ more than 10 employees. in rural america. nearly 1.5 million small farmers earn less than $5.000 per year. this weeks issue of newsweek magazine contains a piece entitled "the ordeal of the black businessman." the article discusses some of the often insurmountable problems which these businessmen face every day. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the rzcord at the conclusion of my remarks. certainly we in congress have an obligation to find out how government. working together with the private sector can better assist these businessmen. it is my hope that the small business committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. will hold hearings on this subject this spring.
technically speaking. under the imf articles. a country can also merit its obligations to support fixed exchange rates through foreign exchange operations. however. the second question i should like to ask the senator is. in rejecting the proposali do  say that unkindly. the senator has given very important reasons. and i will answer thembut in rejecting the proposal i have madeand incidentally. senators ascribe to me a power which i do  have. in saying that i "shook the gold markets of the world"-but in any case. in rejecting my proposal. the senator said the central banks could. through paying their own nationals in gold. in essence have a guerrilla gold market instead of the organized london market. i do  think the senator was aware of the fact that what i called for. and what i do call for. was a negotiation immediately following suspension of dollargold convertibility with individual central banks. which would include  only their status as to how much gold we would allow them to draw. but also the way in which they would deal with their own nationals. in other words. once you have a standstill. under my plan. the negotiation would have to include that. the senator is absolutely right about that. and i have said that. i just wanted the senator to understand that i was  improvident.
i think the answer is that it is felt that a twoprice systemi am  being sort of a devils advocate. but i will give you their answerfor gold will be disadvantageous for the united states and for other countries as well. because matter what arrangement we make with the central banks. there will be gold leakage from some of the central banks to their nationals for operations in the london gold pool at higher prices. and ultimately the force of parkinsons law will operate. so that the market price of gold will have to be officially recognized. that will represent a devaluation of the dollar. and other currencies will have to devalue in accordance with that devaluation.
i would say that my answer to that would bei wish the senator would  use the word "anybody." that makes it hard for me to answer. if he said. "would he break faith with the buyers of the london gold market." my answer would be decidedly  because the only people with whom we have a faith agreement are other central banks which have held off. unlike the french. who have been very mischievous in this matter. but other central banks have held off buying gold from the u.s. treasury. at our request. so that we have an obligation. a gentlemans obligation. which i certainly would ho and support. to them. we do  have an obligation to the gold boarders and speculators who buy in the london gold market.
it will . but what it will do. i gather. is to encourage. at least for the moment. the other nations who participate in the london gold pool to continue to participate in it. it will give us time to put our affairs in such shape that the speculators of the world may conclude that they were wrong in supposing that gold was going to reach a higher price. and that therefore it is unproductive to continue to buy and hold gold. the senator has made a very elucidating point. it is really  a good deal to buy and hold gold if it is going to stay at $35 an ounce. because gold costs you money to insure and carry. and it does  earn interest. as do dollars. hence. it is really  productive. unless you have a reasonable expectation of an increase in price. as long as the united states commitment to sell gold at $35 an ounce remains in effect. the speculator has  been taking any chances except for the reasonable amount that he lost. to wit. in interest and in carrying charges. but if it becomes very clear that that is a vain hope. then there is a reasonable expectation that speculation and the drain on the london gold market would lessen. what i am arguing is that i do  see any such likelihood under such present conditions. and therefore i would hope that the administration would move in more productive directions. for example. i have made the suggestion that we stop feeding the london gold pool. and make agreements with the other central banks before it is even later than it is . and it is late egh. there is black and white in this. it is always a gray area. i do  see that it is advisable to turn the administration down on this matter. simply because i do  think they are doing egh in the other fields in which i want them to act.
. the senator from colorado has signaled to me his permission to answer the question of the senator from nebraska and also the inquiry of the senator from alabama. a twoprice system would be created. because under the plan i offer. the united states would continue to maintain its relations with the central banks to whom there is an obligationand certainly a gentlemans obligationto buy dollars from them and give them gold at $35 an ounce upon an agreed basis. we would  supply the london gold pool where the gold price would float free. as the financiers say. because there is $35ance guarantee there. it might go higher or lower. the general expectation is that it would go higher. at least for the present. so the central banks could get gold from the united states at $35 an ounce. but gold would sell momentarily for considerably more in the london gold market. that is the big issue.
. i invite the attention of the senate to an article which appeared in the february 4 issue of the new york times regarding the outstanding record of deltec in developing capital markets in latin america. deltec is a product of the vision of clarence dauphi. jr.. a former citizen of new york. who 21 years ago dedicated himself to the strengthening of private enterprise in latin america. he said: ecoic progress through free enterprise requires widespread opportunities to acquire ownership interest in productive facilities. capitalism. in order to survive in latin america. must create as many capitalists as possible. the distribution of corporate ownership among executives. workers and saversin medium. and even small amountsis a most effective way to accomplish this. i have particular interest in this matter because of my role in the development of the adela investing co.-one of the great world success stories in bringing private enterprise opportunity to latin americans from the leading financial and business interests of western europe. canada. the united states. and japan. deltec started in 1946 on a financial shoestring and. according to the new york times story. this year it expects to become a $200 million operation. its shareholders include major banks and financial houses from all over the world. it is dedicated to the proposition that unless there is a mechanism for the slowly emerging middle class in latin america to invest its savings in latin america. balanced. inflationfree ecoic growth will be slow to come. deltecs experience and success in broadening capital markets by organizing mutual funds. financing corporate expansion. expanding insurance operations in latin america has led to a request to deltec from the interamerican development bank for major studies of the capital markets of argentina. brazil. peru. and venezuela. these have been completed last year. i believe that the private sector has major responsibilities in latin america to demonstrate the viability of private enterprise to assist in raising the standard of living and in improving the social condition of the people of latin america. the work of such organizations as deltecand of the adela investment co.. which i helped to initiateis emously important to free institutions and a just social order which private enterprise can help to succeed in latin america. as foreign aid comes under increasing attack the burden of exporting capital and khow will fall increasingly on private enterprise. deltec has shown by its record today that it is more than willing to share this responsibility. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article on deltec. published on february 4. be printed in the record.
second. where the governmental entity itself lends the proceeds of its bond issues to a large number of different small business venturesin other words. where it is using the proceeds itself for a quasibanking type operationwould it be excluded under the provisions of (v) (5) .
the peace by investment corporation would be an effective instrument of increasing private investment to the underdeveloped regions of the world. the concept embodied in the corporation has attracted the support of the subcommittee on foreign ecoic policy of the house foreign affairs committee. in its report of march 31. 1968. the committee called for the creation of such a corporation. earlier. the advisory committee on private enterprise in foreign aid. chaired by arthur k. watson. chairman of ibm world trade corp.. said that this approach "deserves the most careful consideration as a way of helping to fil the capital gap with private resources." also david bell. while administrator of aid. in a letter to chairman fulbright supported hearings by the senate foreign relations committee on this measure. i therefore urge that the senateparticularly the foreign relations committeegive this concept its most serious consideration. . i think it is  an idea which has definitely come into its time. and i wish to do everything i can to get an early hearing and early action by the senate
. the first of the three amendments has to do with helping small business in the ghettos. aher one involves housing assisted under state or local financing programs. such as new york states mitchellama housing program. which would be made eligible for an interest subsidy. the third. which the senator has also seen. relates to subsequent tenants in cooperatives taking over from the preceding tenants. aher amendment. which is of interest to the senator from illis . who is  available at the moment. which would put the senate on the track of trying to do something about local contractors. especially ghetto small business and miity group entrepreneurs who can get bonding. in the hope that some government plan could be arranged to help them get such bonding capabilities so that they would get a better break in trying to get some of this business. that is the big problem. especially with miity people in the small business field. i shall hold that amendment until i have an opportunity to consult the senator from illis and will  present it until he has had an opportunity to consider whether he will join me and what he would like to see done about it. the fifth amendment is one which i have discussed with the senator from alabama and the senator from texas and it is my hope that the senator from texas will give it earnest consideration. it relates to the composition of the proposed advisory commission on lowincome housing. i shall  state what it is about at this time. i just identify it that way. i expect to hold that one. too. in the hope that the senator from texas may give it favorable consideration. perhaps at a later time today. thus. there are five amendments. three of which the senator from alabama has seen. and two to which i have just referred and which i shall propose to the bill. as i say. if. under those circumstances. the senator would be prepared to give favorable consideration to the three amendments. i am prepared to proceed.
s declaring a major disaster. we all understand that is an extremely difficult thing to come by. and yet that is the only way to get certain ecoic relief under the small business administration act. it is especially bedevilling in many of these cases where they are dealing with  one riot. but a series of riots taken together. because they are one catastrophe piled on top of aher. i am deeply interested in the housing bill and i do  wish to get into an extended controversy on the floor of the senate at this hour with respect to passage of this important legislation. therefore. i would like to address myself to the manager of the bill. first. with respect to interpretation of the law. and second. on the question of whether the senator might  consider a hearing upon my bill and other bills which will take together everything we have been talking about on this matter. what we have done. what needs to be done in light of the facts. and see if we could possibly come up in some other bill. or separately with necessary legislation to deal with the problem as far as the small business administration is concerned. with respect to the law. it will be ed. that in the small business administration act. section 7(b) (1). loans which may be made by the administrator in the event of a catastrophe. as it is called here. there is the following language: (b) the administration also is empowered(1) to make such loans (either directly or in cooperation with banks or other lending institutions through agreements to participate on an immediate or deferred basis) as the administration may determine to be necessary or appropriate because of floods or other catastrophes. as i understand it. that language has been construed to relate only to certain brick and mortar loans that do  include inventories or anything that enables them to open their businesses. i would like to ask the manager of the bill. considering what we have been doing with respect to this matter as it may affect the state of the law. whether it is clear such loans. whatever may be the interest rate. can be made. i realize there are some problems. but i wish to ask about the ability to make them.
s. as follows: to combine efforts to strengthen and perfect international agreements. particularly the international coffee agreement. to obtain favorable conditions for trade in basic products of interest to latin america and to explore all possibilities for the development of new agreements. to support the financing and prompt initiation of the activities of the coffee diversification fund. and consider in due course the creation of other funds to make it possible to control the production of basic products of interest to latin america in which there is a chronic imbalance between supply and demand. the significance of the agreement and its diversification fund was also emphasized at the eighth united statesmexico interparliamentary conference held in houlu in april 1968. more recently. the chairman of the international coffee council and head of the mexican coffee institute. mr. miguel angel cordera. speaking to coffee leaders from around the world meeting in mexico city to discuss the diversification fund statutes. recognized the importance of dealing with the basic productioncontrol problem when he said: the production of surplus coffee  only constitutes a waste of manpower. land and ecoic resources. but also exerts pressures on the market and weakens prices.... our responsibility is very great. because the agreement is recognized as being capable of sorting out the most difficult situations. of making constant progress. and of opening paths which had been regarded as impossible. the intelnational coffee agreement has been in full operation for only 3 brief years. and will expire on september 30. 1968. our coffee legislation will also expire on september 30. 1968. i would like to emphasize that the participation of the united statesthe worlds largest coffee importerwas essential. in the first. formative phase of the agreement. this participation will be even more significant in the second. decisive phase of the pact beginning october 1. 1968. the punta del este summit meeting will long be remembered by our neighbors to the south in that we have lent our support to their initial steps in the establishment of a latin american common market. it will also be remembered because of our pledged support to the international coffee agreement.
. the senator spoke about a limited time. there is time limit under the senators amendment relating to the action by the open market committee. i understand the senators proposal and the legislative draft to be that this authority will be limited to a 2year period.
second. is there anything mandatory about this on the federal open market committee except that it gives them a set of directions. which we expect they will follow. but do they  have a very wide discretion as to where. when. how. the amounts. and so forth.
. i had prepared this amendment to be offered by myself. the senator from new jersey has very graciously agreed to handle it as a joint measure for both of us because of exigencies which require me to leave the senate. before i leave. i would like to commend it to the senate. it is a matter that i believe commends itself. on the basis of the questions and answers raised on the record. if the senate should think well of thp amendment of the senator from new jersey . it seems to me the way it can be made most fair to the high fiduciary standard which we wish to impose on mutual funds is by giving the benefit to the amendment of the senator from utah of a presumption which thecourts will observe. and leave the corporation and directors in that condition relieved from any burden of proof. if assailed. the burden of proof will be laid upon those who wish to assail. but it will  cut off absolutely the right of anybody to agsail it in court. it seems to me it is a fair middle ground. considering the situation. the senator from new jersey agrees with me. i am hoed that he will join me in the amendment and that he will be carrying the burden of it. but i think this is a fair way in which the senate should go if it chooses to go the bennett route. i thank the senator.
. congress. and the public so that it may reflect the cooperation of all three which is needed to develop a new foreign aid program that will have the renewed support of the american people. but i assure the senator that the corporate concept is the creative aspect of the amendment. it has had many refinements and much study. i am  pressing the specifics of the corporation idea. which i had originally sponsored and have for many years. and which is the development of the thinking of my brother. benjamin javits. and of leon keyserling. but i do think the concept of the corporation. is really the creative power of the amendment.
i wish to spell out the cosponsors of the two amendments i introduced in this connection. the amendment  919 which deals only with the corporation concept and calls for a report by the president on the corporation by june 30. 1969. is sponsored by senators brooke. hartke. hatfield. magnuson. miller. pell. and percy. it has very important bipartisan sponsorship. the amendment with relation to the review committee. but which also calls for a report on the corporation. has the sponsorship of senators brooke. cooper. hatfield. kuchel. and mundt. it is interesting to me that bipartisan sponsorhsip cameand we offered both to our colleagueswith the corporate idea which represented a matter of the greatest interest to me. i feel that we can turn to a new path in the foreign aid field. we are beginning to appreciate the emous resources available in the private field. both from investors and from the business concerns which are available. it is well kn that i am considered to be the father of something called the adela investment co.. which was one of the really great creative efforts of private enterprise of the great industrial countries of the world to do something with respect to private enterprise efforts in latin america. it has been supremely successful. and the concept which is contained in this corporate idea follows very much along the lines of the adela investment co. thus. i shall rest my case at this point. and greatly appreciate the attitude of the senator from alabama. he gives me great faith that both of these ideas. the one he is sufficiently acquainted with and the one toward which he does  feel entirely oriented in terms of kledge. will have very just treatment at his hands.
 of the xerox corp. they have shown that a grassroots organization and a part of the "establishment" can cooperate productively in an effort to create jobs and business ownership for the poor. and i hope that other companies in the rochester area will follow the xerox example in purchasing the products of fight to make it a success. already. several corporations are supporting this project through the established development corporation kn as the rochester business opportunities corp.. which will hold the lease of the building fighton will occupy. this kind of program. unlike the usual antipoverty serviceoriented effort. can put the poor in the mainstream of corporate america. for my part. i will support this program in every way and will be working hard to insert this idea of communitybased business ownership into the republican platform at miami beach. and i hope my colleagues will be able to profit from this example in new york state in stimulating similar efforts in their own states.
. there are two itemsif i may have the attention of the senator from alabamawhich i have already discussed with him. and which i thought would go into the committee report but did  appear in that report. provided that we can get the matter clarified here. i see hing lost of that account. but i feel that those items deserve clarification. first. when we were discussing in committee certain aspects of what could be done about poverty. we also discussed the concept of what could be done for the small business community in the slums. these businesses need an emous amount of help. and this is provided for by the general legislation under the poverty program. with the small business administration  administering that part of the program but with the oeo act providing the funds for it. it was understood that we would instruct the oeo and the administration to utilize or earmark $10 million of the fiscal year 1969 oeo funds for this small business program under title iv of that act. specifically sections 406 and 407. it is my understanding that through inadvertence. that request did  appear in the committee report. if the chairman would be kind egh to comment. i hope that we could then at least have the record clear.
i referred to the fact that when we were considering the bill in the appropriations committee. i raised the issue of earmarking $10 million for the small business program in the slums. and it was agreed that it would be included in the report but. through inadvertence. it did  appear. does the senator from alabama agree with that.
. congress. and the public so that it may reflect the cooperation of all three which is needed to develop a new foreign aid program that will have the renewed support of the american people. but i assure the senator that the corporate concept is the creative aspect of the amendment. it has had many refinements and much study. i am  pressing the specifics of the corporation idea. which i had originally sponsored and have for many years. and which is the development of the thinking of my brother. benjamin javits. and of leon keyserling. but i do think the concept of the corporation is really the creative power of the amendment.
i wish to spell out the cosponsors of the two amendments i introduced in this connection. the amendment  919 which deals only with the corporation concept and calls for a report by the president on the corporation by june 30. 1969. is sponsored by senators
 of rboc. meriting special mention and credit. finally. i would like to congratulate mr. john f. blake. the talented general manager of rboc who took leave of absence from his job as training coordinator of the ritter pfaudler corp. to give his indispensable talents to the effort. on the community side. credit must be given to the fight organization. whose efforts to organize the community led to much of the corporate interest in rochesters innercity and whose particular project. the organization of an industrial plant called fighton. is one of rbocs most interesting projects. i would like to insert in the record at the conclusion of my remarks a case study describing in full the formation and workings of rboc. this case study is one -of several excellent publications prepared by the chamber of commerce of the united states in its farsighted effort to inform businessmen throughout the country of promising experiments in the private sectors effort to deal with urban problems. the case study was prepared on a consultant basis by mr. robert e. patricelli. who is miity counsel to the senate subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty. i ask unanimous consent that the case study be printed in the record.
. i oppose the substitute amendment. and i would like to have a rollcall vote on the matter if that is the way it is to be. the fact that the record does  contain any information on what is going to happen to contracts does  mean that contracts are ok. and i do  want to see an arbitrary shift from research in universities and colleges to research under contract with individual firms. or vice versa. i think we would be going very much further than we should if we were to accept the substitute rather than to dig into this question. which is fine with practically everyone here. we would be casting our vote in favor of a certain type program against other types. at least by implication. the fact that there is evidence in the record with relation to one type does  mean that they both should be adopted. in view of the fact that we often face a situation in which we can do everything in a completely finished way. i think most of us were willing to go along with the distinguished majority leader because of the great respect and confidence we have in him. in order to have the matter looked into by the conferees. if we are going to impose a limit on the cost for these universities and colleges and leave the corporate contractors out of it entirely. we will be making a decision that we should  make at this time because there is evidence to support it. the fact that there is evidence on one side and  on the other does  make the decision right. therefore. i believe we ought to do what we originally planned to do. let us turn over to the conferees the whole problem. but let us  opt for one type of research program as against the other. the senator from colorado very frankly. as is always so characteristic of him. said there is evidence with respect to the other type. i think the proof. rather. is on the ground that we ought  to accept the substitute. there is evidence with respect to one and evidence with respect to the other. there is reason that we should do something of this sort. i hope very much that the senate will reject the substitute. as i understand it. the manager of the bill is quite willing to accept the amendment of the distinguished majority leader.
it will be remembered. in connection with those items. that we also covered in colloquy on the floor the fact that we had asked the oeo to allocate a certain sum of money for small business activitiesi believe it was $5 million.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the anncement made yesterday by the corporation for public broadcasting concerning mr. macys new role. and an article published in this mornings new york times on the same subject.
. on behalf of myself. the senator from illis . the senator from maryland . the senator from kentucky . and the senator from indiana . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to establish a federal commission to carry out a review of the antitrust laws of the united states. i ask that the bill be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the names of the senator from kentucky . the senator from kansas . the senator from nebraska . the senator from iowa . and the senator from california be added as cosponsors of the bill to establish a commission to study the antitrust laws.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the names of the senator from iowa . the senator from kentucky . and the senator from kansas be added as cosponsors of the bill to establish a commission on the antitrust laws.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the names of the senator from texas . the senator from alaska . and the senator from hawaii be added as cosponsors of the bill to establish a commission on antitrust laws.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from tennessee be added as a cosponsor of the bill . for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from arizona be added as a cosponsor of the bill for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from california be added as a cosponsor of the bill for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states.
. "operation better block." a citywide community participation campaign. is helping a number of new york city neighborhoods to help themselves. the program is sponsored and financed by the mayors urban action task force and by bristolmyers co.. one of our active corporate citizens. the project was so successful last summer in assisting people to improve their surroundings that it will be continued on a full years basis. "operation better block" is aimed at increasing opportunities for people to participate. to determine their needs. and to share in decisions that govern their lives and their neighborhoods. it is a most commendable effort. i ask unanimous consent that an article published in the new york times of march 30. 1969. be printed in the record.
at the same time. i am one of those who. along with the senator from delaware . thought that we needed to have this surtax. i come from the most sophisticated financial and banking community in the world. i checked this matter. and. long before i came here. i represented all of these "moneybags." or many of them. anyway-
generally speaking. i find myself in accord with the senator from rhode island. but. with all respect. i very strongly do  . with all his implications that this is to butter up the banking community. it is the banking community that is setting up these high interest rates. it is the banking community that is behind the idea of the price inflation moving as it is. we will  satisfy them. and we will  serve the people. with a temporary extension of the withholding. that is  an extension of the tax. they k it and we k it. it does  in any way  will sign any bill we send him. we are holding ourselves hostage. in a manner disastrous to them. by the very extension of the debate against having an extension of the surtax. several senators addressed the chair.
. i find myself in a very difficult position. i want to do my best to help the senate in this situation. i was the author of a "statement of policy" which was contained in the bill as it came from the subcommittee seeking to discourage the denying of loans to students who do business with the bank. i think that is a perfectly proper thing to do. where we are giving incentive allowances to the banks. on the other hand. i have grave disquiet about this provision. in fidelity to the situation as we resolved it in the subcommittee. i shall have to vote in favor of the motion to strike out. i shall advise the senate. should it succeed. that i would expect immediately to offer the "statement of policy" which was originally contained in the subcommittee bill. i shall  try to go over all the ground which has been gone over. but there is one point which has been omitted which. to me. is decisive. i appeal to the senator from massachusetts and the committee. on the same ground. which will come as surprise to him. but is of very great concern to me. and that is the situation in which we can force a bank to make a loan.  do we have an analogy as we have in the employment situation where there are antidiscrimination laws where there is a job slot. so that we can apportion the demands of the slot and say that he has been rejected and is  eligible for the slot for various reasonsskill. and so forthonly because he is black. so we can make a finding on that score. however. we are  dealing with a case where banks have plenty of business.
this is  an open situation on money which is going begging because borrowers can be found. banks will generally give a break to the student. banks will generally do that because the student can be a good customer of the bank in the days ahead. but it is necessarily legally unacceptable as such. the senator from massachusetts did modify the language so that it is much more responsible than it was before. i think it would have been an absolute prohibition. again. what bothers me is the fact that the hew secretary must lay down rules and regulationsthis is the central pointthus it will jeopardize the banks getting its money out of the incentive allowance as a matter of law because the allowance is paid after.  before. the expiration of the quarterly period. it is paid  on the existing loan but is paid on the average of loan balances for all similar loans and this is provided for in the law. page 6. line 1. speaks of the average unpaid balance and disbursed principal. page 6. lines 23 and 24. says that the reimbursement shall be. "after the close of such period." therefore. one complaint to the secretary that a particular banking institution had set a condition for a loan. or proposed one. or indicated one. will hold up that banks reimbursement. it is a marginal proposition . there is real money in this for the bank. i appreciate the words spoken about profit. there is very little or profit in this. banks have plenty of other business. they do  need this except for customer relations.
can the senator tell me if he ascertained whether the antitrust language might be much more appropriate. could we say. for example. there is unreasonable restraint by contract or practice against the employment or improved techogies. techniques. materials and methods. i do  ask the senator to answer off the top of his head. this is a matter of first impression to the senator that he might take a few minutes to think about while other senators speak. i am  against the senator. i am only concerned with respect to the legitimate relationship between labor and management. lest that relationship be inhibited. sometimes by going too far we defeat ourselves because it just will  work. it will just inhibit the production of housing and it might cause a tougher attitude than would otherwise be present. i suggest the possibility of using the antitrust formula that there is unreasonable restraint by contract or practice against the employment of new or improved techogies.
. in suggesting consideration of the antitrust words i do  wish to imply that any effort or intention is being made to apply the antitrust laws to the trade union relationship. i suggest it because they are words well interpreted and words which have history. and the possibility of those words being more nearly the intention of the amendment of the senator from texas.
. as far as i am concerned. i rest our case with the senate. in the strain and effort to do something more than we have done beforeand we have given much time to this matterthe amendment which the senator from new jersey has offered for both of us will give aher year of relief. it will give 5 rather than 4 years. it simplifies the application. there is a 3year moratorium. then he gets 2 years more on one single application. it can be granted for many reasons. whether it is ecoic or the ability to acquire the equipment. then we have included in the bill the opportunity for small business loans. those are the two areas in which we have tried to accommodate the situation. and the substitute. as i say. goes even further than we did in committee: it provides for a simplified procedure and an additional year. one last thing: i think that one of the most important successesthe senator from kentucky does  have to agree with me. and i am  asking him questionsthat the senator from kentucky could have would be that a distinction is made by this substitute between gassy and gassy mines in respect to the time allowed. thus i think the principle as to which senator cooper feels so deeply is given some recognition. but we simply can go along with him on the basic issue of leaving out the gassy mines completely. for the reasons i have stated. assuming the senate agrees with us. we can only give our view. i assume that the senator from new jersey will speak for himself. but i think i have fairly represented the motivation and the attempt which has persuaded us that this is the way the senate ought to go.
so that in our legislative oversight. i hope very much that the committee on banking and currency. which reported the bill. will have that in mind. so that some accounting might be asked of the attention paid by the federal trade commission to the complaints of attorneys general.
. i have looked at the study on which the senator from massachusetts relies. let us remember that he is talking about $24 million in income. so it is di minimis. so the question is the essence of his proposition. that study is for gifts in 1962 and 1963 current- when. according to my recollection. the market was very poor. and it is a private study. it is  a public document. second. we inserted in the record. on october 7 at page 28944. a much later study. of 196869generally speaking. the years between 1965 and 1969from a list of colleges in the state of new york. which showed that they got $94 million in securities in those years. and that represented 46.5 percent of all gifts they received. inasmuch as this is di minimis. i think the senate should lay that beside what the senator from massachusetts is arguing for. and i should like to identify myself with the views expressed by the senator from louisiana
 i am sorry. it proves the other point because the senators definition includes every country in the world. the senators letter from the department of commerce just said so. as i said when i began my remarksand i am  sure the senator from rhode island was in the chamber at that timeevery country in the world can be excluded from the american market by the power of the president. this turns over the total authority over tariffs of the united states to the president. that is all the senate would be doing by passing this measure. i do  think the senate would be well advised to do it and i doubt very much that the senate -.ants to do it.
i think they are. . with all respect. we are dealing with a special category of credit unions. which is very small. and which we as a matter of policy favor. you can have a 75percent guaranty to the extent of the total investment. and the american investor could conceivably. under that formula. have a 100percent guaranteed investment. but other than thatand that is a pretty limited categoryi think everybody will agree that the guaranty. other than on loans. shall  exceed. on an investment as such. threequarters of the investment. i think that is the fundamental point passed by the other body. i might say to the senator from arkansas. i have submitted his amendment word for word exactly as it passed the other body. there has been change whatsoever.
the fundamental differences are three. first. the fact that a corporation is expressly set up to seek out opportunities which. with sensitivity and education. can be of interest to american investment as well as to the host country. this is essential. we are practical egh to k it is tough for a government agency to do. a private agency can do that. second. we  make possible through this corporation a mix of investment. you can get a consortium of small companies for which this kind of corporation can be the trigger. the senator will remember the new york plan in world war ii which enlisted small companies through a consortium. that is the only way they could have techogy and other factors which were needed. it must be enterprising or we will junk it. they can be linked up with indiges investors. which is a new concept in international investment. that is the second point. the third point is on the financial side. there is something of a better opportunity with respect to the 75percent guarantee than the 50percent guarantee of extended risk. even though the principal is higher. also. this corporation gives a little capital. has the opportunity to add a little money as long as there is a guarantee to sweeten the situation. these are the ways in which they can at least double the operations  going on under the program. that is why we suggest taking the existing program and making it more ambitious. the $20 million appropriated by the other body and the $20 million for the following year. making a total of $40 million. would come out of repaid loans. there is new money. it does  go down the drain. the united states owns the corporation. for it owns the reserve. the only question would be if it would be called on. the clinching fact is that in 20 yearsthat is how long this company has been operatingthere is an extraordinary actuarial record.
. i urge the committee. especially the subcommittee dealing with antitrust laws. to hold an early hearing upon this measure. and on many of the problems which are being argued here today. this should  be dealt with piecemeal or on the concept of restraint of trade which is  out of date. but some new standards. and some new criteria should be adopted. i point out especially that one of the great problems with this bill which is troubling its opponents is the fact that there will be followthrough once this exemption from the antitrust is granted. matter how it works out. what will have to happen is that congress will have to be called upon to act again. if it turns out to be a grave mistake. the antitrust laws have builtin difficulties with respect to adaptation to the ecoics of the country. but one thing they do have. as long as they are in the courts. there is continuous adaptability to changing conditions. incidentially. i am  arguing necessarily against the bill. i may very well end up voting for it. depending on its final form. but once we start in on piecemeal amendment. we will find deficiencies which can be repaired only by a completely new antitrust concept which the united states needs to adopt in its own interest. .both at home and abroad. i hope very much that this measure. s. 1478. in which i have joined with other senators. and in which former senator dirksen took such a very profound interest. may have early consideration by the antitrust committee of which the senator from michigan is chairman.
the antitrust laws. to which the senator from michigan has just given thedates. with interpretations by the courts. are still the laws. considering the way they are written. they date from the time of the beginnings of the major industrialization of this country. that is. about 1890. they certainly ought to be looked at again in the light of todays ecoy. i am very grateful to my colleague from michigan and hope very much that this will be undertaken. he has been opposing the newspaper bill  before us out of a deep sense of sincerity with vigor. i really must point out to him that the time and effort he spends on this could be much better expended in developing a general policy to make this a proper bill. i thank my colleague from michigan.
. i think senators ought to listen very carefully to the senator from michigan. we are going to vote this bill. and amendments which might have tightened it up. as i and other senators thought. have been sed under. we had better  go too far. because this is a piecemeal exemption from the antitrust laws. which is unwise. it could place some special group in the country in a unique position. with very wide implications. because this is the communication media. i think all senators who intend to vote for the bill ought to vote for the amendment of the senator from michigan and listen to him very carefully. in their own interest and in the interest of the security of this piece of legislation. which could turn very sour. i think the senator from michigan is proposing to the senate. in a lawyerlike way. a method by which at least criterion can be established intelligently for both parties to any such agreement and so there would be protection against serious improvidence which could result from exemption and a cutting out from the antitrust laws in a completely unregulated business. i say this because there is a technique herethe senator from michigan and i have been here a long timewhereby when amendments get sed under the theory is. "forget obout it. let us vote down this one." i think this amendment is one that is very important. especially for those who want to vote for the bill. i k senators want to get away. but this is an important measure. i k senators want to deal with it with the important consideration which it deserves. but it is more vital that senators listen to the senator from michigan. especially those who want to vote for the bill.
s proposal will go a long way toward meeting the need of small business and small business generally. i hope. and believe. that the senate will give these proposals every support. and i hope to join in sponsoring the implementing legislation.
. this is a very serious question for the banks of the country. of course. i represent the state in which many of the principal banks in the country are located. the article relates to their opportunities to serve society in the effective way in which they should. i e that we shall soon be debating the entire issue. and i shall be ready to articulate my own position as representing my state at that time. but i do think that any enlightenment we can get on the subject preliminary to that debate would be valuable. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that the article to which i have referred be printed in the record. and commend its reading to my colleagues.
. i invite attention to the passing of thomas f. corcoran and join with the senator from nevada . the chairman of the small business committee. of which i am the ranking member. in mourning the loss of mr. corcoran and call attention to his record of fine service.
. i was very pleased that the american bankers association recently set a goal of lending $1 billion to miity businesses over the next 5 years and committed itself to aggressively work for equal employment opportunity for miity groups. this news was annced after a meeting of the american bankers associations urban affairs committee. a newly created committee to aid in miity ecoic development. the committee was a result of a policy program developed by the aba after i had called together representatives of the new york city banks and the small business administration and asked them to explore ways in which they could work together to assist miity small businessmen. i congratulate the committee and the aba for their new commitment. this is a further step in the effort to help miity businesses which the nations banks are engaged in and i am sure the banks will continue their fine efforts in this important area. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "bankers plan miity loans" published in the new york times on may. 1970. discussing this new initiative by the bankers be printed in the record.
subsequently said: . a very interesting and important bill was introduced today by the chairman of the committee on banking and currency . together with the chairman of the committee on banking and currency in the other body. the bill is s. 4142. the bill endeavors to deal with the question of a presentday rfc and the problem of dealing with the present and longterm liquidity crisis in the american corporate field. this is also the subject of a bill i introduced on monday seeking an extensive program of loan guarantees to deal with the very same crisis. i think it is urgently desirable that action take place on such legislation. this proposal seeks a national development bank. i have discussed this matter with the senator from alabama and he is agreeable to my name being added as a cosponsor of his bill. inasmuch as i think action in this field is urgently required in the ecoic interests of our country. i ask unanimous consent. with the consent of the sponsor of the bill. which i have already obtained. that my name may be added as a cosponsor of s. 4142.
i have consulted with all parties in interest. including the distinguished chairman of the small business committee . of which i am the ranking miity member. and with the manager of the bill. the senator from arkansas . they have been kind egh to say that they will take an amendment for an additional $1 million. i have also consulted with the senator from nebraska . i think. considering the temper of the senate. that desirable as is the casei think they could really make a case for $5 millionthey should be accommodated. that is the attitude of the manager of the bill and the chairman of the small business committee. so i have agreed to introduce this as amendment.
. i have taken the time this morning to discuss a serious problem of an ecoic character in the country. and that is the illiquidity. in my judgment. of a serious number of employers of labor and corporations in the country so as to require our attention. neither the administration  the congress has yet moved to solve one of the pressing problems of our ecoy: the continuing and omis squeeze on corporate liquidity. in the midst of optimistic statements about the ecoy. it is critical to remember the abyss which may be at our feet. the abyss of illiquidity. it is  an overstatement to say that the ecoic cardiogram was flashing the danger signal in the wake of the penn central bankruptcy. the commercial paper market weathered this immediate storm and the administration has been reassuring the nation that all is  well. however. a nationwide survey i have just made has convinced me that all is  well and that the underlying conditions that lead to the first crisis are still very much with us.  is the time to take out the "life insurance" to guarantee that if aher principal member of the nations ecoic family fails. the overall health of the ecoy will remain intact. aher major corporation could fail without the bankruptcy procedures being able to insure continuance of operations over a crisis period. it is conventional wisdom to state that the behavior of the commercial paper market in the wake of the penn central bankruptcy indicates the strength of our financial markets. however. it is the truth to state that if there is aher failure like penn central. a major crisis would develop since the underlying condition of illiquidity has  been relieved. it also is clear that when penn central went bankrupt. a clear and present danger existed that the commercial paper market would cease orderly functioning and that the federal government lacked the necessary emergency powers to shore it up. we must insure that this possibility does  arise again. in recent letters to me. gaylord a. freeman. chairman of the board of the first national bank of chicago and frederick l. deming. a former undersecretary of the treasury and  a partner in lazard freres and co.. graphically spelled out the details of the liquidity problem. mr. freeman who gave me his kind permission to use sections of his letter of august 19 stated: i feel that the immediate crises of fear of commercial paper. which was generated by the penn central failure. has passed. however. the liquidity problem remains. corporations are quite illiquid. inventories have been rising (particularly in this part of the country where we have more manufacturers of durable goods than durables). and accounts are  being paid as promptly. thus. liquidity is impaired. and borrowing needs increase. (our loans have been running about $4billionsome $437million and 12 percent ahead of a year ago.) municipalities are also less liquid than before. and i am afraid that even the federal government has been a little short of cash. thus. though the crisis has passed. the problem is still with us. and one. or possible two. failures of large companies (and i dont see any immediate prospect of this) could cause a further loss of confidence and a real crisis. thus. it seems to me it would be wise for the federal government to have some standby authority. mr. deming wrote that: the high degree of uncertainty which characterizes our ecoy reflects concern about the corporate liquidity situation and some fear of a liquidity crisis. by almost any measure corporate liquidity has deteriorated considerably in the past several years. particularly in the last 18 months. some significant ratios for all financial corporations are listed below. were data available for mid1970 they would show further deterioration. 1964 1968 1969 (1) cash plus government securities as percent of corporate gross product (end of year) --------------------- 18.6 14.2 12.5 (2) liquid assets as percent of current liabilities (end of year).. 42.3 34.4 30.0 (3) internal sources of funds as percent of total finance re. ired for increase in assets ull year)-. .---- ---------70.3 57.1 52.8 (4) net interest paid as percent o h i of corporate profits before tax(full year) ........... 9.1 14.2 16.8 mr. deming continued: the odds against a liquidity crisis still seem fairly favorable but they undoubtedly have shortened over the past six months. in this kind of situation it would be well to establish some safeguards to prevent any real crisis. or if one occurs to ensure against any serious chain reaction. one month ago. i introduced legislation which would provide the administration with the ecoic war power needed in times of ecoic difficulty. basically. my bill would authorize the secretary of the treasury to guarantee loans made to certain businesses which are in necessitious circumstances. the continuance of whose operations are vital to the national interest. the secretary would also be required to certify that the purposes of the loan to be guaranteed must further the ecoic health and welfare of the nation or a region thereof. and that the business of the enterprise to be assisted is of a nature which makes assistance appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this bill. what these two conditions mean is that the business must be one imbued with the public interest. and one whose failure would seriously affect the ecoy of our country or the wellbeing of a particular area such as a city or a populous county. it could conceivably be a business undergoing reorganization under the bankruptcy act. so long as the necessary conditions are met. they further mean that the purposes to which the guaranteed loan would be put must be carefully scrutinized before any guarantee is made. that these purposes must be productive and must be such as to help restore or maintain the ecoy of the nation or the region. i am pleased that dr. arthur burns of the federal reserve system feels so strongly that such a loan guarantee power is needed that he would be willing to see this power lodged in the fed if the treasury did  wish to administer it. it is my understanding that my proposal has been actively considered at very high levels of this administration and that apparently the decision has been made  to support this bill at this time. reportedly. the administration fears that its support of such a bill would have an adverse effect on business confidence rather than buoy it up. in my view this judgment is faulty. since the american business community and the american banking community full well k their state of illiquidity. i would venture that almost every major bank in this nation is aware that at least some of its important corporate customers have a cashflow problem. the banking community also is aware that it is carrying more potentially troublesome loans  than it was a year ago. with the result that the domitheory of business failures still can be ruled out. banks also are icing a strong loan demand from companies that have never borrowed before. and a loan demand from companies lacking in liquidity. many. even the larger companies. have about exhausted their borrowing authority and many can pay bills on time. this is about the surest indicator that the crisis danger is by means past. many small companies that have been issuing commercial paper have withdrawn from the market and have returned to the banks for their financial needsagain swelling loan demand. finally. the budgetary position of the federal governmentwhich puts it further in deficitguarantees that the treasury will become a more active borrower in the financial markets. thus placing pressure on these loan markets. these facts are drawn from discussions i have held with financial leaders in new york. san francisco. chicago. dallas. atlanta. and winstonsalem. in citing these facts. i wish merely to point out that optimistic administration statements are  kidding anyone. the american business community and the banking community are fully aware of the liquidity problems they are facing and they would be relieved. indeed. to have the government and the congress do something to alleviate them. it would buttress business confidence if the administration would support measures such as an emergency loan guarantee authority to help insure that aher major crisis does  develop. the administration should do so . the actions of the congress in the ecoic area can escape criticism. either. legislation which addresses itself to the real ecoic problems of today languishes. while i and others feel that the emergency loan guarantee authority falls into this category. the penn central problem is an even more pressing specific example. in the very near future. banks throughout the nation will be asked to lend funds to penn central for operating costs which would be backed by trustee certificates. i have been informed that such trustee certificates will  be viewed as adequate collateral by some of the banks. and that without a government guarantee. the banking community probably will  lend penn central the required funds. thus. in the very near future. the administration and the congress may be faced with three specific choices. that they can either enact a loan guarantee bill. allow penn central to suspend operations with the macroecoic implications such a failure would cause. or nationalize the railroad. in my view it is the course of wisdom to opt for the first choice. but. the bill providing such loan guarantee authority languishes in the congress. a bill to provide brokerage insurance also faces an uncertain fate partially because of the administrations uncertain position in support of this bill. on the broader question of emergency loan guarantee powers. hearings have  been held by the key committees. this suggests that the twoway flow of information between the business and banking community and the members of the congress on the importance of such an emergency guarantee power could be faulted. i previously suggested that all members of the congress consult with the administration and the federal reserve on the need for an emergency loan guarantee bill. i  urge that the banking and business community make their wishes kn to the congress to acquaint the members of the congress with the status of the liquidity problems in their districts and states. i ask unanimous consent to have the memo frederick deming sent me on the liquidity situation printed in the record.
it could result in some increased payments but more than if the bank were involved. it would be exactly the same. except that these payments would be even less. because they borrow money at much lower rates than banks do. their mortgage charges are less than those of the banks.
i think i see the concern of the senator from th carolina and would like to introduce two fabts into the record. one is the fact that when the scheme of legislation in section 715 is read with the definition of the word "employer." which appears on page 26. lines 11 and 12. which excludes the united states or a corporation owned by the united states. this lends support to the argument made by the manager of the bill that section 715. and so forth. is an autoous scheme for dealing with employees of the united states. the second point which i understood the senator to make. which is more relevant. that under the broad construction given to eeoc. it may issue orders or such instructions as it deems necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibility. there is. as i understand it. the senators concern here about importing counsel fees and other provisions and parts of the bill which do  legislate for the federal government. in my judgment. i think this is important for the record. because the senator is perfectly right to take the precaution in the interpretation of the whole of the section i have just referred to. as made by the manager of the bill. in which i join as the ranking member of the committee. so that the eeoc would  be within its power and would  be making rules. regulations. and orders carrying out its responsibilities if it simply imported the procedures of this bill respecting other employees to apply in cases involving federal employees.
 denunzio testified before the senate that if any firms were permitted to operate while in a net capital deficiency. the exchange would have to accept responsibility for those firms. nevertheless. when plohn & co. was suspended from the exchange in august. the nyse was so omisly silent on the subject of protecting plohn customers as to be widely interpreted as refusing to help them. mr. haack has only this last week said that the nyse staff would recommend protection for plohn customers. however. the apparent quid pro quo for this recommendation is passage of the muskie bill. and the recommendation carries guarantee of protection. in recounting these items. one can but be impressed with the contradictory statements from industry officials about the ability and intention of the nyse to support fully the customers of failing firms. but. more importantly. with the apprehension and insecurity which must be dispelled for millions of investors. their confidence in the industrys ability to protect its own best customers should at time be in qoubt. i have long supported the principle of investor insurance. and in july i urged passage of senator muskies bill. i again urge passage. free of amendments which would substantially weaken it. if anything. the need for this legislation has increased since july. the issue here is  the legal merits of any claims against one exchanges trust fund. but rather the health of one of cur maor industries. the securities industry. and the safety of the savings of millions of americans. the time has surely come when congress must act to build up confidence in our uniquely free but currently distressed securities industry. if this is  doneand i believe it can be done with minimal material changes in the principles of selfregulation which govern the securities industrywe may see a reaction to these events of 1970 so strong as to serve neither the investor  the securities industry itself. this bill is one of the top priority items remaining to be enacted by the congress in this session.
that section says: it is declared to be the policy of the congress that information which may be needed by the various federal agencies should be obtained with a minimum burden upon business enterprises (especially small business enterprises) and other persons required to furnish such information. and at a minimum cost to the government. that all unnecessary duplication of efforts in obtaining such information through the use of reports. questionnaires. and other such methods should be eliminated as rapidly as practicable. and that information collected and tabulated by any federal agency should insofar as is expedient be tabulated in a manner to maximize the usefulness of the information to other federal agencies and the public. then there are various duties which are assigned thereafter with respect to this matter. so it is  because the senator from connecticut and i have a profound feeling that the senator from utah is trying to do anything that he should  do. or anything like that. but solely because we are trying to work out a bill which establishes a new agency and to keep. as far as we humanly can. the consistency of that agency with the agency structure of the government. the senator ks. to be very realistic about it. that by the exercise of authority of congressional committees. including any upon which he himself serves. practically any committee around here can reach any department or any director that it wants to. by the utilization of the senate floor and by our own political influence matter who is president. we can obtain pretty active redress. especially against someone who is making a decision. i believe it is unnecessary to make this a unique proposition. which this amendment. if adopted. would make it. so i hope very much that the senate will go along with the manager of the bill and me. who are trying very hard to accomso in original. plish this great reform which the country. i feel. needs and wants. and at the same time  put people in fear of it because we are carving out this agency for unique treatment in respect of mal agency procedures. for that reason. i hope the amendment will be rejected.
. i think that before we vote this amendment. which involves a very major change in the bill. we ought to consider its consequences -most seriously. i appreciate the feeling of the senator from maine that he is willing to take the amendment. however. i point out that if we do take it. it would  be without peril. i was  informed of any plan to offer this amendment. however. i am  on the committee. and i would  necessarily hear about it. i do  think the world ks about it. in general the people who are interested in this matter throughout the countiy assume we are putting a $50.000 guarantee limit on this and  cutting it down to $20.000. the $20.000 is  a magical figure. it is only the figure" for fdic and bank deposits. i can see the analogy to cash deposits but  to securities. so i would like to make this suggestion to the senator from new hampshire. whom i respect. and i do  impute anything to him other than the highest motives. might it  be possible. in his judgment. to separate the guarantee limits for securities and for cash. according to the thoughts of the senator from utah . and endorse a somewhat higher figure.  necessarily $50.000. but say $35.000. for securities. then. that issue. as an issue. will be before the conferees and we will have what the brokers call some "stop loss" in that the senate will  face the possibility of going to conference and finding that the house agrees to the $20.000 figure. i have been caught at the post like that before and the feeling is embarrassing. but it can happen here if we do  guard against it.
i am very sympathetic. the senator ks that. i appreciate what the senator has done. and i want to help him. did the committee analyze or get in the testimony the proportion of securities compared with the proportion of cash that would be covered. does the senator have any idea.
what would happen if i should offer an amendment to the amendment to cover securities up to $35.000. for example. to what extent would that upset the actuarial propositions which the senator is laying down in the debate.
may i ask the senator from new hampshire a question. would the senator from new hampshire be willing to take a $25.000 limit. i k that does  seem very different. but in that way the senate would present a proposal on which there could be negotiations. so that there could be a distinction between the money and the securities. i wish the senator would give consideration to that proposal. let us at least show a distinction between cash and securities when we go into conference. perhaps something good will come out of it. it may . but at least let us have a crack at it so that we will have the idea of dividing the money from the securities. would the senator consider that.
this could be dropped in conference. but the issue of the difference between $20.000 and $50.000 would be there. with the dynamics of different treatment for securities and for money. all i am trying to do is get something into the bill which would indicate that there is a field for settlement. for negotiation. perhaps it will  be done. perhaps hing will happen. perhaps the $20.000 will come out of conference just as the senator wants it. but at least let us make the distinction between securities and money. certainly. i recognize. and the senator from illis has just explained it very feelingly. that there is a difference between bank accounts and brokerage accounts. that there are different volumes of resources involved. i think. if we are to turn out something that is meaningful. we should  just shut our eyes and take the fdic figures. again. i respect the arrangements senators have made. but we are here on the floor to make proposals. we might just as well legislate in committee if we are  going to be permitted to say anything about it because the manager and the proponent of an amendment decided that they were going to get together.  we find ourselves locked out and asked to just be quiet. i do  think i should do that. and i do  think anybody would want me to do that.
well and happily. but i wanted to answer the question of the senator from new jersey. i do technically have the floor. " i just want to answer by saying we had  evolved* anything really. i had latched on to the suggestion that was made that we might differentiate between securities and cash. and thereby preserve all we could of senator mcintyres amendment. by limiting it to $20.000because when i heard his argument. he emphasized cashand provide a higher figure for the account which has securities in it. over and above .$20.000. so. if we adopted the formula i suggested to him. if a man had $15.000 in securities and $20.000 in cash. he would be covered for the whole $35.000. if he had $18.000 in cash and* $17.000 in securities. he would be covered. if the securities in the account exceeded $15.000. then he would be covered up to $35.000. that is really what i was shooting at. but the senator from new hampshire apparently does . find that agreeable. and the senator from maine feels that would force what he had understood was enabling him to keep the bill. and the objections to it are in balance. and this is what is giving me great concern. very frankly. 
. i should like to. repeat a question that i asked the manager of the bill. i asked him whether he had any figures on the division in brokerage accounts between cash and securities. at that time. ie was cas and ie. .  quite prepared to give me an answer. i wonder whether he is .
except that we k that there is 10 times as much in securities in the hands of brokers as there is cash. so it is logical to assume. as there are  that many differences in. the customers. that securities preponderate by 10 to 1. it seems to me that that bears very heavily upon the proposition that if we are going to do something really effective. we ought to do more. materially more. with respect to securities than we do to cash: i should like to read into the record the provision froni the bill of the house on this subject. it is on page 3. lines 8 to 13. and reads as follows: (7) the term "insured customer account" means the net amount due any customer from his account maintained withan insured broker or insured dealer (after deducting offsets of any debit balances of cash and the value of any debit balances of securities) less any part thereof which is in excess of $50.000. * that is.to be contrasted with the definition in the bill before the senate. which is found at page 65. lines 12 to 17. which reads as follows: (11) in order to provide for prompt payment and satisfaction of the net equities of customers of the d6btor. the.corporation shall advance to the trustee such moneys as may be required to pay or otherwise satisfy claims in full of. each customer but  to exceed $50.000 for each customer. . i ask the senator from maine whether he defines the words "net equities of customers of the debtor" to include both cash and securities.
therefore. the senator. when he goes to conference. will feel that he has a right to negotiate to make this figure higher in totothat is. we raise the $20.000 from the higher estimate. or separate the concept of the securities from the concept of the cash in the way of what is guaranteed. on the ground that the guarantee is intended to cover both in a particular account.
whether we can do anything about it or . i should like to state to both leaders the consternation and dismay with which the whole ecoic community of the united states will greet the fact that. after we have labored to produce an historic effort to assure the security of brokerage accounts. both in cash and securities. we will be unable to do anything about it. i understand that the difference is really very limited in one particular area. i can only tell the senators. i repeatone is finding fault. and members have every right to be as stern as they wish about their particular views. but i could  think of anything that would more directly be a matter of jeopardy in respect of the securities markets and the ecoic system of this country than to let this matter. which represents such a fundamental aspect of our national life and our national ecoy. die at the end of this congress. i would say that it is very close to tantamount in importance to the guarantee of bank deposits.
i should like to say that i can only appeal to the gentlemen concerned to study the subject and consult all the banking and securities authorities they wish themselves. i k what they say has aroused their consciences to pass this legislation.
 of the exchange. bob haack. and by the chairman of the board. bernard lasker. i have personally talked twice today with mr. haack about the draft of the telegram. so i can assure the senator that mr. haack authored the final version which the senator has received. the form in which the senator has it is almost the same form in which mr. haack. his lawyer. and i agreed over the telephone would be satisfactory. i think all the encomiums which have been paid to the senator are richly deserved. it is a fact that the stock exchange practice which he has described is. generally speaking.  vividly kn to those who have brokerage accounts. but the fact is that they do sign a customers agreement. or the broker will  take their accounts. that is one of the rules of the exchange. i have maintained brokerage accounts for family trusts. et cetera. and i have always insisted on receiving checks for cash received. and i have always asked that securities be delivered to me. that is what every investor should do. there is reason why every investor can protect himself and make sure that the firm is a good one. one reason why the brokerage houses have the cash and securities is that the customers do  draw them down. margin accounts are a different story. in that case the account is such that the client is speculating. he must run certain risks in borrowing money. and the broker must borrow money in his name. but with respect to cash accounts. there is one thing that every investor in the united states should understand and that is there is reason in the world why he should  draw his cash when he has a cash account. when he buys securities. he ought to take delivery on them. and when he has cash. he ought to draw it down. brokerage houses do  pay interest. therefore there is reason why the investor should  draw the money down. also i think it is only fair to say that agreement is required. as i say. to these customers accounts. we would  revoke sec legislation because of the doctrine of caveat emptor. that is what was argued once against the sec: you buy securities. and if anyone misrepresents them. they go to jail. but that is long after you have lost your money. it is the same here. if a broker becomes insolvent. and your securities and cash. even though you are entitled to them. are mixed up with those of every other customer. after that broker becomes insolvent. either you get them after a long time or you get a percentage of your money. obviously this is longer an acceptable procedure. when the hardearned savings of millions of investors are in question. i think the senator has performed a great service. he has put his finger on one of the real ills of this business. and one of the real reasons for having insurance. the senator is certainly  a man who decides these things lightly or can be easily influenced. but he finally decided what i hoped and prayed he would decide. that the jeopardy to the whole ecoy of the nationand perhaps of the world. because we are the center of international finance here in the united states. and especially new york cityif one or more houses went bad. or even if there was a serious threat that they would. was so great that it for the present outweighs the problem which he very properly pointed out. so he has obtained what i think are very solid and solemn assurances of three kinds. i would like to recapitulate them. because i think it is important that our colleagues understand them. first. from the committee members. that they will dig into this problem. second. from the sec. that it is going to use the regulatory powers in this bill and its other powers that it has always had. that was one of the senators big pointsand third. a commitment which i think is a commitment of ho from the new york stock exchange. to me. the most important sentence in the wire from the stock exchange is the last one. senator from wisconsin says. "well. right  they want this." they certainly do want it. they need it. that is why they want it. they need this bill urgently. senator proxmire says. "you have got them right ." i might tell my colleague. "you have always got them. there is such a body of legislation on the books with respect to securities and their regulation. that the members of this industry had better be in right with the banking and currency committee. or they will be in even more trouble than they are . so i emphasize the importance of the last sentence. which says: we assure you and your colleagues of our cooperation in a spirit of constructive reform. as we believe this provision represents a suitable objective of the regulatory structure governing our industry. that is the commitment which i think the senator wanted. and has got. one final point. and then i shall be through. i k the purpose of the senators comments today. e of this was designed to injure the securities business. that would be the worst thing we could do. hence. we had to temporize with reality. the fact is that these practicesfailure to segregate accountshave persisted for so long. and become so ingrained in this business. that we need time and some practical means for the phasing out of them. and that is what the senator expects the sec will do. and i would like to tell him i join with him in his expectation. after all. it is my state and my city which are most intimately involved here. and i am very conscious of the problems of the securities market as well as its great advantages to our country. but i assure the senator i will join with him to see that measures are taken promptly to deal with the problems. again i congratulate my colleague for performing what i think is a highly statesmanlike act in letting this legislation pass. because it is urgently needed right .
. it is because i feel that he can and will do this job that i am for his confirmation. the securities industry is critically important to the success of our country and the wellbeing of our people. its over 30 million individual security holders and its functioning as the capital market for the nation makes it a very valuable ingredient in our society. hence. there is a paramount national interest in a really effective chairman of the sec which must oversee that industry. from my kledge of him acquired over the years. i believe mr. casey will meet this test.
. on behalf of myself. mr. hruska. mr. cooper. mr. dole. mr. mcgee. mr. pell. and mr. tower. i introduce a bill to establish an antitrust review and revision commission. i ask that the bill be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a fine analysis and recommendations regarding the corporate liquidity problem and the need for an emergency loan guarantee authority which appeared in the miity views of the joint ecoic committees annual report. as well as the text of the bill.
 echeverrias position on accelerating the integration of latin america was clearly stated in his inaugural message to the mexican congress on december 1. 1970. he said: latin american integration calls  only for the union of markets but also for that of our productive potential. we must create largescale ecoies that will make the most complex industries profitable and competitive in the world markets. we shall propose the establishment of multinational enterprises that will integrate the initiatives of our investors. utilize the raw materials of various countries. and take advantage of the most advanced techniques and institutional sources of international credit. at the same time. we shall also propose the creation of multinational research centers. it is my hope that the echeverria administration and the enlightened mexican business community which has done so much to build a stable and prosperous mexican democracy will increasingly turn their attention to the affairs of latin america and assume a leadership role in developing latin american integration. cxvii- .84part 11 in all my conversations. i was impressed by the concern over the protectionist mood in the united states as evidenced by the near congressional passage of the mills bill in 1970. the reason for mexicos concern is evident since in recent years. twothirds of mexicos exports by value went to the united states. in 1970. the u.s. trade surplus with mexico reached $482 million. an increase of $61 million over the 1969 surplus of $421 million. i am convinced that continued access of mexican products to the american market is the key element in maintaining the excellent state of relations between the united states and mexico. in turn. any action by the united states to restrict the access of mexican exports to the u.s. market would run counter to the determined effort which the echeverria administration is making to promote exports and would create serious friction in the relations between the two countries. mexico would be particularly concerned about quotas on textiles and shoes and any changes in u.s. law which would restrict the market access of the products of mexican border industries. since the united states maintains a trade surplus approaching a half billion dollars annually out of a total trade of some $3 billionthere should be considerable sympathy in the united states for mexicos position. while in mexico city. i explored with mexican business leaders the type of relationship they wished to see evolve over time with the united states. many of the business leaders favor the establishment of a special relationship between our two countries which would accord mexicos production special access to the u.s. market. i believe that interest in the establishment of such a special relationship will be heightened considerably if the generalized preferences scheme fails of passage in the u.s. congress. or if the european common market fails to accord mexican and other latin american products greater and discriminatory access to the european market. in all my talks with mexicos leaders and with the press. i emphasized that resolution of the textile issue with japan is a must if there is to be any forward movement in u.s. trade policy. i ask unanimous consent that the speech i made before the american chamber of commerce of mexico on pan american day be printed in the record.
. as ranking republican member of the small business committee. with the senator from nevada as its chairman. i too. support the amendment and i shall vote for it. i realize our budgetary problems. but aid to small business makes revenue in a geometric ratio rather than in a direct ratio to the amount which will be provided as a means of financing and aiding small business. as this is a direct loan program. it is the most effective. immediate way to help small business in its efficiency and with necessary resources. i believe the amendment is highly desirable and should be adopted.
. this bill which is before us purports to vest in the trustees of the estate of mary baker eddy an exclusive copyright on her great work. "science and health." upon which a copyright still remains under various extensions of the copyright law for the one edition which was published in 1906. numerous editions published between 1875 and 1906 are  in the public domain. and. of course. other revisions may take place hereafter. at the specific request of the association of the bar of the city of new york i have previously asked that consideration of s. 1866 be delayed in order to give the association an opportunity to file a statement of its objections to the bill. the chief sponsor of the bill. senator burdick. has graciously agreed to delay consideration of the bill for a few days in order to give the association time to transmit its statement. i have  received the report of the civil rights committee of the association. which is authorized to speak for the entire association on matters within its jurisdiction. i ask that the committees report. together with the earlier telegrams to me from the chairman of the committee on civil rights and the com.. mittee on copyright law be printed iri the record at this point.
 of the united states. or his representative. in order to secure appropriate adjustment by other countries. is authorized on behalf of the united states to propose or agree to a change  to exceed 10 per centum in the par value of the united states dollar pursuant to section 5 of the act of july 31. 1945 (59 stat. 514). i also invite the attention to the fact that both the original bill and the amendment were referred to the committee on housing. banking and urban affairs. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to senators be printed in the record.
by cutting it down to $50 million. we really cut them down. i think that will cost us far more heavily than the amount is worth in our relations with those countries. when we recognize how these countries have been disadvantaged by the european common market in these special trade deals. and when we consider the potentiality of our own security. it is a modest price to pay. for all these reasons. and the reasons advanced in the arguments by my colleagues. i hope the amendment will be agreed to.
. earlier today. when i was  in the chamber. some discussion took place about the overseas private investment corporation and why we seemed to be resting content to have $25 million. however. $25 million. within reservations for it. which is in the bill in the other body. has  been inserted. and we were  moving with respect to it. i believe that the committee is and has been dealing with the situation and is contemplating a consideration of the matter after testimony. specifically. i believe that the senator from wisconsin . the manager of the bill. has very adequately given full accommodation to the consideration which such item will receive in the regular appropriation bill. but i gather that various statements have been made repecting the operation of the overseas private investment corporation. i was the author of that amendment. and the senate very generously went along with me. and it finally became law. so i feel a very special sense of responsibility for the operation of the agency for that reason. every insurance company. before it finally becomes mature and is a real moneymaker. has to demonstrate it by paying its liabilities. if it is hit with an important casualty and really pays. then it is a real insurance company. i have every reason to believe that the overseas private investment corporation will successfully surmount the chilean problem. so the reverse backing of the united states is very necessary to enable a private. productive enterprise to function. and such a program will typify what such an agency can do with its capital resources. i shall discuss this subject further. but -i wanted to go on record today before we. adjourned. since this question has been raised. i wish to thank the manager of the bill . and also the ranking miity member of the subcommittee . for the sympathy and understanding which have been manifested by them. "
. we all k. and k very well. the frustration and chagrin of miities in this country. we k that the feelings of injustice. in being discriminated against. have erupted in what was tantamount to revolution. and that the united states had a hard time dealing with it. and may again. by means is it an ended question. especially if we are going to run into. circa 1971. the same kind of attitude as to civil rights legislation that we faced for so many years. which has brought on emotions that erupted in violence and riots and brought our country to the brink of anarchy. so this is a moment in which to take counsel. we are a very experienced people. we shall overcome. i have doubt about that whatever. but it will be difficult. in the meantime. much human weakness is exposed. and it is our duty to remedy it. one final thought. it is very clearand the reason i speak of this is the naked display of what the power of the filibuster meansit is very clear. again withstanding the many obfuscations which come in speeches and declarations that it is a filibuster. that this action is expressly designed to make a majority of the senate accept the position which it has rejected  once. but in five votes. and that when that position is adopted. the bill may be permitted to pass. i think it is going to pass anyhow. because. as i say. the country can be marshaled behind it if those who are the major opinion makers  will indicate that they are deeply pledged to the success of the bill. the candidates for the presidencyand they are very influential and important in such a crisis as this. in respect to a very important measurecan make an appeal for it. this is the most important kind of campaigning they can do. i have campaigned a lot myself. and i have always found that there is substitute for doing the job. the majority leader was very eloquent on that score many days ago. i can hope to equal his eloquence. but i am hoping to underline and emphasize the substantive fact that faces us today. when we are about to have a second cloture vote on the bill. one further observation: we have about gone through the whole gamut of things which could be objected to in the bill on the grounds of policy differences. in each case there has been a resolution of the issue. we started with whether or  the office of federal contract compliance should be transferred. we decided that it should . a number of senators had disquiets about voluntary services to be used by the equal employment opportunity commission. we decided very sharply to limit the nature of that service. so we were willing to accept specifically what we had in mind. we had questions about alleged deficiencies in handling by the government of affirmative action plans. we worked out an agreement as to that. we had questions raised about the ambit of the exemption for religious institutions and educational institutions in respect of their right to discriminate. we voted on that. in addition. we took care of the small business problem. we compensated small business concerns which might be oppressed by lawyers fees. et cetera. by making provision for them. the remaining two issues are the transfer of pattern and practice suits. which is the amendment we are expecting from the senator from nebraska
. it is  reliably reported that the administration will submit the legislation to formally revalue the dollar this week. having secured significant short- and longterm trade concessions from our major trading partners. as was expected. the anncement that a "balanced package" of trade concessions had been negotiated with the european common market had the effect of calming the worlds monetary markets which had shown considerable nervousness in the preceding weeks. i ask unanimous consent that the excellent article published in the wall street journal of february 7. on the subject of the devaluation bill and the trade negotiations. be printed at this point in the record.
. addressing myself to the question asked by the senator from tennessee. there is a difference. and that difference is in the professional responsibility of lawyers and the need for the recruitment of able and effective lawyers in this program. therefore the bar association. it seems to me. has a place. which is  the situation with the price commission. but in addition to that. all of us are always wary of being holier than caesar. or holier than whoever is holiest. and the american bar association. which represents half the lawyers :n this countrywe have 330.000 lawyers. and 146.000 are members of the abahas sent a telegram to me dated june 15. which reads as follows: the american bar association supports the enactment of legislation establishing a national legal services corporation. having concluded that the corporation will tend to further the associations interest in preserving the independence and professional integrity of the legal services program. i would therefore urge that you resist amendments to s. 3010. the ecoic opportunity amendments of 1972. seeking to strike title ix. or wh.ch would threaten the independence of the corporation or the responsibility of lawyers providing legal services for the poor. this position is consistent with the associations longstanding commitment to equal access to justice for all citizens. signed.
what have we done to meet the presidents points which he made when he vetoed the previous socalled antipoverty bill. in the first place. we have a real problem here as to the freedom of the lawyer in terms of his professional responsibility to his client. if we want to have a legal services program. that has simply got to be observed. withstanding the irritation. distaste. or disagreement of many members of congress with the socalled law reform cases. that is. cases brought by attorneys in the legal services program under the oeo. which sought to upset some governmental dictate or some law or to challenge some decisions made by a government official. what are lawyers all about. and why. if that is justice. should it be denied to an individual who is poor. if you overturn a law. you are  perpetrating an injustice. on the contrary. you are carrying out an act of justice. if the courts overturn it. why deny that justice. is there something wrong about that. .are we  living in a country where. if you challenge a law. you are thrown outside the moral pale and we will have e of it. just because you are poor. are you to be denied that privilege. that is what we face. therefore. in order to deal with that. we have endeavored to establish a corporation which. within itself. would have such mechanisms as to prevent mischiefmaking and troublesome suits. specious actions. delaying litigations. and expensive costs to individuals who might be sued. there is such a thing as the tyranny of the weak. and that is what we are seeking to deal with and restrain. we have interest in that. any more than the senators who are sponsoring this particular title. s position. i am satisfied that that is impossible.
 himself feels that the legal services corporation is an excellent opportunity for all of us and that we should effectuate it and i urge that we do so. i believe that we have effected the best meeting of the minds humanly possible on the mechanism by which the corporation can be operated. and i hope very much that the senate will retain it.
i thank the senator from tennessee for his frankness. my answer is as follows: in the first place. i believe we go a long way toward insuring what i could call the integrity of the program. champerty is an established violation of the code of ethics of practice by a lawyer. whether in private or public life. i am sure that the senator ks that any lawyer is disciplinable. even if he has a job with the corporation on legal services. or works with the department of justice. that does  save him. unfortunately. i wish the bar were tougher on that than it is. they have the idea that if they work for the government. as the district attorney. or as the u.s. attorney. that kind of gives them immunity. that is dead wrong. aher thing that is very important is the way the corporation is set up with a heavy balance of the profession in it. i k they have the scrutiny which senators like the senator from tennessee and myself will give to any inees for directors of this corporation. i really think we have a grip on it. the last point i mention is explicit law. i mention it last because. like the senator from tennessee. i am pretty sophisticated myself. the written law is the last thing to mention. but it is a fact. and i mention it because the record needs to be complete in this regard. the senator will find a strong provision against solicitation on page 116. line 23. and i should like to read it into the record. though i again repeat i am  trying to mislead the senator into any idea that we have written it into the law and that is the end of that. it will erect something in the way of a standard. it should be the law anyhow. the basic professional ethic. as the senator called it "ambulance chasers." i used the word "champerty." many lawyers have been disbarred for exactly that practice. just so that the record will be complete. we have written into the law the following: the corporation shall insure that attorneys or other persons employed by it or employed or engaged in programs funded by the corporation shall. in any case. solicit... the client community or any member of the clfint community for professional employment. and funds of the corporation shall be expended in pursuance of any employment which results from any such solicitation. there are also various provisions about advertising. and so forth. we have written it into the law so that any one of us who runs into a case of this kind has a strong statutory basis for raising the question.
. there is an added reason for acting . which i would like to lay before the senate. gover rockefeller and i toured western new york. which has been hit very badly. i would say that the ratio to pennsylvania is probably about 1 to 2. here is the situation: the banks will  lend the money to small businessmen and homeowners who need it immediatelyas they go back. they need it at onceunless they have the feeling that the united states is going to come through. therefore. there is great validity to senator scotts argument that if we demonstrate that money will be available. it will encourage bank credit. i had meetings with mayors. local officials. and businessmen. together with gover rockefeller. and it was clear that the banks would come through. but they are small banks. unless they have a feeling of confidence that these people are going to be backed up and that the. federal government is going to respond fairly promptly. they are going to be very timid about it. i think it is an important added argument.
. i think this is a splendid amendment. it follows what i conceive the corporation to be. a legal aid society organized on a national scale. this is exactly in that line of professional responsibility and professional input. i hope that the senate will agree to the amendment.
one other precaution. because we do  k what the hruska motion is. as i understand it. and he will correct me if i am wrong. it is to refer the bill to the committee on the judiciary with instructions to report it back immediately. striking out the legal services corporation title.
 of the american bar..association. and a humber of other telegrams of support from similar . organizations and individual attorneysbe printed at this point ina the record. .:there being objection. the telegrams werelordered to be printed in the recorn. as follows: chicago. ill.. june15. 1972. hon. jacob k. javits. w.s. senate. old senate office blicling.washington. d.c. the americaribar assn supports the enactment. of -legislation establishing a .national legal services corporation having concluded that the corporation will tend to further the. associations interest in preserving the independence and professional integrity of the legal services program. i would therefoie urge that you resist amendments to s. 300. the ecoic opportunities act of 1972. seeking to strike title ix or which would threaten the independence of the corporation or the professional responsibility of lawyers providing. legal services to the poor. this position is consistent with the associations -long staiding commitment to equal access to justice for all citizens.
i would like to recall to the senator that the senator from new jersey and iand i have since discussed the matter with the senator from nevada . the chairman of the small business committee. and i am its ranking miity memberpropose to accept that amendment and hope it will be part of the bill. we appreciate the situation and are prepared to go forward with it.
. the explanation of this amendment may be rather brief. it responds to a problem which affects. generally speaking. older people who rely for support uponand i use that word advisedly. it is found on line 8 of my amendmentsurvivor. disability. or retirement benefits. it gives the administrator of the small business administration the authorityit is  mandatoryto suspend the payment of principal on a disaster relief loan during the lifetime of any borrower for so long as the administrator determines that to make such payments would constitute a substantial hardship for the borrower. what has happened is that many retired people concerned depend upon very small incomes. they have paid off their homes and one of the elements in their ability to stay afloat is that they have their homes free and clear. when a disaster strikes they have to rebuild the premises with a mortgage on the home and the question of repayment of principal may become really pressing in many cases. the incentive for this amendment came out of ontheground. onthespot reports from elmira. corning. and other cities in the socalled southern tier of new york. which i visited and which were directly affected. i hope very much that the senate will look with favor on this amendment. there is question about the humanity and desirability involved. we have taken two precautions to prevent misuse of this provision: first. it is completely discretionary. second. instead of establishing a means test. we will accept a factual status to determine eligibility. in other words. an eligible borrower is one who relies for support on survivor disability or retirement benefits. and so forth. thereby confining it. ipso facto. to people of modest means. i hope very much that. under the circumstances. the senate will see fit to approve the amendment.
. one last question. the bill dealsat pages 19. 25. and 26. and the followingwith the problems of regulation. it mentions three areas where consultation among the various regulatory agencies involved must take place as this bill deals with the amendment to sections 17a and 17b of the securities and exchange act.  the reference there to rules and requirements which are made in respect of such regulations are that these various rules and requirements may "accord with sound banking practices and fulfill mutual regulatory needs to the extent practicable."  the question i would like to ask. and again it is a matter of assuring the way in which this bill will be administered: is the consultation provided for by the bill and the cooperation called for by the bill to be considered mandatory.
. i also want to point out that when domestic copyright legislation is considered by the congress. as i hope it will be next year. we should at that time consider the effect which this new treaty has had on the position of educational publishers and authors of educational works.
also. we have developed a flow chart showing the relationship of the cost of this urban dividend amendment at each stage of the bill in terms of the number of years which go by. showing how it starts in the first year and ends up in the last year. and therefore how the $300 million growth dividend is accounted for in respect of this particular urban dividend. i ask unanimous consent to have that chart printed in the record at this point.
. you can have it both ways on the $1 billion. you can argue at one and the same time that it is a tradeoff for the social services program and also that it is an urban dividend on revenue sharing. it will  stretch that far.  do i think we are going to be bemused by the socalled cranking in of $1 billion. it may be clever but i think we have egh brains to see through it. they have cranked in $1 billion. you may be getting $1 billion more in this but you may be losing $1 billion or $2 billion or worse in the other provisions. so i hope that senators from states with urbanized populations will see that their interests have  been fairly served in this bill by this formula. that the urban dividend i have suggested is the way to correct that inequity. and that the senate will agree to the amendment.
. i would like to ask a few questions about this matter. i am the ranking member of the small business committee of the senate and have served on the banking and currency committee so i have some considerable interest in the situation which we are meeting today. is it  a fact that the sbics. both in total number and individual capital are very much larger than the mesbics.
. might we ask the small business subcommittee if they would be able to develop. if they do  have it already. in connection with the hoped for hearings on senator buckleys bill. anything on the utilization of that section of the small business act which allows. withstanding antitrust laws. small business to combine for purposes of research and development. as the senator said. personally my instinct is that we have moved away from credit inaccessibility. and the main scourge of small business. to managerial inaccessibillty. and the effort to allow them to utilize research and development was one of the main things we thought we had done in this area. i think it would be helpful to senator buckleys bill if we had some idea as to how that had gonemy recollection is that it had  gone too welland what were the reasons it had  gone well. and whether we could help it with this bill or what we might include in the bill. i would like to recall to the committee an experience. with which quite a few committee members are familiar. and especially the senator from alabama
there is question about that.  only have we tried. but each of usand i vouch for that from personal kledgehas gone to consumeroriented businesses. supermarkets. the grocery field. general merchandising organizations of every kindand i k manyand the managing executives. in an effort to give as much counsel as we possibly could. i have gone to the banks in new york with the same mission. this bill reflects what in all reasonableness is a fair allocation of responsibility. work. and authority so far as they are concerned. in my best judgment.
. this bill has  been called up. and i understand will  be. i hope very much that the importance of it is fully recognized. and i wish to express the feeling that when it is brought up next year for consideration. the method by which the concerns of the banks may be dealt with may prove to be useful in the final resolution of this matter. as quite a large number of senators are interested in it. i wanted the record to be clear that i had done my utmost and had worked out something to deal with the problems of the banks. which seems satisfactory. but we will deal with the matter when it comes up again.
. i send to the desk and introduce for appropriate reference. a bill to establish an antitrust review and revision commission. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. as the antitrust laws determine so heavily what will happen in the american ecoy. they should  be definitively reviewed. and i introduce the bill for that purpose. i am joined in the introduction of this measure by the senator from nebraska . the senator from wyoming . and the senator from texas as cosponsors of the proposal.
would the senator agree with me that there is a material difference here. which is one of quality. that is. where we are controlling an item of sale and the seller may have very real reasons to keep a work force going and keep a brand name current. while he has to sell his merchandise he would do his utmost to fly with a price limitation. but when we are dealing with money we are dealing with a subtle situation.  just in the local market but in the world market. which can be withheld without any great cost to the withholder. but is terribly disruptive to hear. one of the reasons we are so sensitive about putting controls at the production level on foodalthough i am for themis that i realize the supply could dry up. this would be even more true with regard to money. and i would be worried by this kind of inflexible rollback.
. i have long believed that public tvwith its reliance on a partnership of private sector and federal fundinghad a unique potential to serve as a freeflowing forum of ideas and entertainment for audiences that are smaller than those at which the commercial networks aim. if this goal is to be achieved. the local public television stations. represented by the public broadcasting service. should retain independence with responsibility for their programing. they should  be dominated by the corporation for broadcasting which. through the power of the purse. can influence programing. the controversy between the public broadcasting service and the corporation for public broadcasting regarding consultation versus domination and the inherent danger of the latter rather than the former is thoughtfully set forth in a recent buffalo evening news editorial entitled "perils facing public tv." i commend it to the attention of my colleagues and ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
i wish to ask the chairman of the small business committee a question. i am the ranking member of that committee. this amendment goes very deeply to our work in dealing with the whole small business field. i have discussed it with the chairman. he feels. if i understand him correctly. that we should allow this amendment to go into this bill. but that our committee will consider it. and if we think that any changes are needed to conform to the policies we advocate for small business. he feels that there is adequate room in the legislative process. by conference or in other body. to do what needs to be done. is my understanding correct.
. to complete the 5year span originally contemplated for the operations of the overseas private investment corporation and because of delay in its organization after authorization in 1969 an extension is needed from june 30. 1974. to june 30. 1976. today i had the ho to testify before the foreign ecoic policy subcommittee. representative john culver. chairman. in aid of legislation to this effect. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony be printed in the record.
the objection has been made that because the customer receives whatever he is to receive through the trustee. there is added an extra level of delay. and so forth. i have tried to research this. it is rare that we have a securities bill. we have one here. the article to which i have referred makes reference to the liquidation of a company called weis securities. inc.. which is in liquidation . it is  possible to ascertain whether the complaints made are or are  fully justified. under the circumstances and in view of the fact that there are a good many liquidations pending  in which this agency sipic is involved. i got the figures from the agency and they indicate 87 liquidations are going on . that payments have been made to trustees of about $12 million in 57 of them. weis securities is a big one. i have discussed this matter with the chairman of the committee. whether under these circumstances it might be justifiable so that the matter should be in conference. and with a full understanding by me and the senate that it might be dealt with in conference by perhaps being thrown out or included. he might include this amendment which gives the agency the authority. which is  mandatory. under whatever terms it feels appropriate. to get expedition directly with customers in whole or in part. the chairman advised me. and i accept this with great respect. that this very morning in a speech to an audience he alluded to precisely the same problem. so very much like the amendment of the senator from nebraska a few moments ago. i asked the senator if he could see his way clear to take the amendment to conference. with a full understanding that at least it would be then qualified to be dealt with if the work of the conference indicates there is a possibility in connection with that problem that requires some kind of remedy.
. i will vote for the committee bill and have already voted against the taft amendment. realizing that the best of intentions and a considerable amount of research have gone into each. at the same time. i would like to offer some views. which i feel go to the heart of the problems affecting the securities industry in a way which is  accomplished as yet by the legislation at hand. all the proposals are being made in an omis setting. during the first quarter of this year. member firms of the new york stock exchange lost $75 million. compared with profits of $394 million for the corresponding period in 1972. the summer monthsthe period we are entering right is traditionally a lean period for the industry. and thus a first quarter loss figure is  a good indicator for the following months. one of the reasons given for the current spate of red ink is the fact that negotiated rates for transactions above $300.000 have bitten into member firms gross receipts. and the sec estimates that pushing negotiated rates down to $100.000 would cost the industry an additional $15 to $27 million annually.  i am all in favor of cutting fat out of member firm operations. but there is such a thing as pushing matters too soon. and that is exactly what any forced switch to fully negotiated ratesor even negotiated rates for $100.000 and above transactionswould do. an argument for negotiated rates is that the present rate system costs the consumer so much. this is deceptively appealing. the consumer would be paying a lot more than $27 million if he were dealing with an illiquid industry or a less open auction market for securities. a forced switch to negotiated rates could force this state of affairs. for this reason i can vote for final legislation which i feel does  take these market realities into account. the primary flaw in both the committee bill and senator tafts amendment is the way they treat the subject of negotiated commission rates. the committee bill. as my colleagues k. links this issue with the issue of institutional membership. in effect. it forces the securities industry to decide which they like least. negotiated rates or institutional membership. and says that they need only suffer one of these until april 1976. thereafter they must switch to negotiated rates. the taft amendment. in effect. barred institutional membership right . but imposed negotiated rates on transactions of $100.000 and above by april 1975 at the latest. and at the earliest. april 1974. a third important proposal is the secs. their position is to favor negotiated rates for transactions of $100.000 and above. the sec hopes to institute such rates by april 1974 unless market studies show that such a move is clearly unwise. in acting on any such proposal. our concern must be to avoid irreparable harm to a vital institution which makes ours the leading money market in the world. the new york stock exchange and our other major exchanges are unparalleled anywhere else in the world for their inner efficiency and for the ease with which they permit american firmsand others all over the world. including governments and international banking operationsto raise capital. they offer to every american even with modest means the prospect of equity ownership in virtually any publicly held american. and many worldwide. corporations. they have made our financial markets the envy of foreigners. who themselves invest large resources in the securities of american firms. coming from new york. i have a particular interest in the viability of the new york and american stock exchanges. and in the overthecounter and those commodity markets in new york. but as an american. i must also be concerned with the health of our capital markets in general. i believe the key to the health of these markets lies  in the institutional membership or negotiated rate issues per se. but in the whole range of conditions which have kept many investorsparticuarly small investorsout of the market in the past few years. for todays individual investor is beset by genuine doubts and uncertainty. many investors are still holding substantial paper losses for 196970 period. and our tax laws do  encourage liquidating these losses quickly. in order to get into more promising investments. other provisions of the tax code. to which i shall refer shortly could also be changed to encourage investors to make greater use of our securities markets when deciding how to utilize their savings. the events of 19691970 have. in fact. given the securities industry a bad name. and many individual investors undoubtedly still treat with great skepticism the "buy" recommendations of brokerage firms. in addition. the inner workings and insolvencies of some brokerage firms have cast what i believe to be a shadow upon the workings upon the industry as a whole. the forced liquidation of a number of firms in recent years culminating in the recent weis securities incident can help but encourage people to find other avenues for their personal investments. in the first place. it is clear that our tax code could do more to encourage individual investors to participate actively in buying and selling stocks. three rather simple changes would be necessary to develop a much more suitable climate for such activity. the first would be to raise the dividend exclusion from $100 to $200 per person. making the exclusion fully applicable only to those persons with incomes of $15.000 or less. $15.000 is the approximate median income of people investing on the new york exchange. the second measure would allow investors to deduct brokerage fees from ordinary income. present law allows brokerage fees to be taken into account when computing capital gains or losses. which usually defers the impact of the tax advantage and in most cases gives it only a 50 percent effectiveness compared with a straight deductible provision. the third measure would increase the capital loss writeoff $1.000 to $2.000 per year. again with a sliding scale which would make this provision fully applicable only to persons with incomes of $15.000 or less. the effect of this latter measure would be to encourage investors who hold paper losses to rearrange their portfolios so as to take advantage of todays changed market conditions. these measures together could help provide a direct dollars and cents incentive for increased investment by individuals. however. as i have implied above. even monetary incentives would  be egh in a setting where many investors are deeply skeptical of the brokerage industry and where isolated incidents of brokerage house failures or wrongdoings grab large headlines. therefore. i believe that the congress must ask what needs to be done to create a new climate of confidence for individual investors. first and foremost. the industry must modernize itself. this is the sine qua  for any significant reduction in commission rates. and for a climate of confidence in the institution as a whole. and the key to modernization is automaticity with regard to recordkeeping. that is. abandoning the stock certificate for a computerized bookkeeping entry. i realize the problems involved heresuch a development would have to be done in such a way as  to run afoul of the distinction in law between shares held by the customer and shares held for the customer by a securities firma distinction which is. i believe. without merit. i am also aware of efforts being made by the new york exchange and the american exchange to computerize and modernize their operations. aher change we should look into concerns the securities investor protection agency. that agency. as my colleagues k. is charged with indemnifying customers of bankrupt securities firms against losses of as high as $50.000. it is often compared with the fdic. customers of fdicinsured banks can do business with the kledge that their claims against an illiquid bank will be relatively quickly resolved. but certain legal and situational provisions make this comparison suspect. and some customers of bankrupt securities firms have had to wait for more than a year to recoup their losses caused by the bankruptcy. my amendment. which was just accepted. is addressed to this problem. obviously. considering the overwhelming support this legislation has in the senate. based on the vote on the taft amendment. it is essential to get something underway and be able to have a creative impact on the final legislation. without. therefore. committing myself as to the form and nature of the final legislation. i intend to join with the majority. to bring this legislation to the next .stage of legislative consideration.
. as we all k the multinational corporation is under critical review. if  attack. at home and abroad. it is my concern that the pendulum could swing too far and cause damage  only to the americanbased multinational corporation but also to the american ecoy and in turn the world ecoy in a way contrary tc our national interests. i have found roberto campos voice a welcome and sane addition to the ongoing debate. mr. campos is a world rened ecoist. a former finance minister of brazil. a member of the pearson commission. and presently a distinguished leader of the brazilian private sector. mr. campos puts his finger on the dilemma the multinational corporation presently faces when he states: thus. a paradox occurs: in latin america multinational corporations are regarded as an ecoic ramification of american imperialism. while in their country of origin they are accused of disregarding the national interest. mr. campos then goes on to develop his thesis that "the multinational corporation is neither an angel  a beast." i commend reading of roberto campos article "the art of identifying enemies" which appeared in the brazilian publication 0 globo on may 16. 1973. and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record. in doing so i wish to disassociate myself from any adverse implication respecting the policy of any country as characterized by mr. campos.
. my purpose in raising this question is to ascertain the views of the chairman and the ranking member of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs on a matter which has been before us for some considerable period of time. and in which the members of the committee themselves have been quite active. it relates to establishing a domestic enterprise bank comparable to the world bank but concerned with domestic development. i would like to find out from my colleagues exactly what they think about going ahead with a concept of this nature. since 1967. there have been a long :uccession of measures introduced by many senators relating to the establishment of a domestic bank. the need for it arises out of the fact that we do  have a bank in the federal establishment which operates autoously in dealing with the entire range of banking problems. from financing private business efforts that provide employment in industries adversely affected due to techogical obsolescence. general small business development including ecoic development for miity businesses. and business adjustments which arise out of the need to meet the challenge of imports. these are some of the areas with which i am concerned. in this respect. the small business administration. eda. in the department of commerce. and other governmental organizations have authorizations to function in these general areas. there is desire on my part to consolidate these programs. but each of these efforts tends to be underfinanced. to lack the backing of techogical assistance and the kind of expertise which can be provided by a domestic enterprise bank. the same arguments which obtain for the world bank in international affairs also obtain for this kind of approach in domestic affairs. i should like to point out that measures of this general character have been introduced by senator kenmy and myself. and 20 other senators. as far back as july of 1967. this list consists of members of the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. and ably. and very importantly to me because of my very high regard for him. the chairman of the banking committee himself. who introduced such measures in 1969 and i would greatly appreciate it. therefore. if we could have some idea from the committee as to. one. their interest in this particular approach and. two. whether there is any possibility of having consideration of it through hearings. or in some other affirmative fashion. in order to bring to a head a concept that has been germinating here for so long.
king the senators as i do. i k you mean it sincerely but. i should like to point out the following in completing this record: one. we are much better off with a selffinancing organization. even though the initial capital sounds large. we must remember that it is a oneshot operation. once you capitalize the domestic enterprise bank. it has a rollover quality. such as any bank. two. as to the authority of $60 billion. we must remember that we still are an enterprise ecoy. an ecoy in which the overwhelming portion of productivity. distribution. and so forth. remains  only in private hands but also in the hands of relatively small businessmen. we are inclined to forget that most american workers are still working in what are called small business establishments. hence. the proletarian quality of this kind of effort is critically important. often our vision is so obscured by the ges. the ibms. and so forth. that we forget thlt this is  an ecoy in which the preponderance of business organizations are big companies. the preponderance of business organizations are still what we generally call small businesssome of these small businesses have hundreds of employees and millions of dollars in gross sales. king the two senators as i do. i will accept that assurance.
. . this conceivably could require the production of virtually every piece of paper generated by the staff of the antitrust division. outside reports of complainants and the like. as such documents may be considered in one way or aher to have entered into the determination of the government to enter the settlement and. thereby. would be "determinative." this is particularly troublesome in view of the further provision that the public impact statement describe and evaluate all alternatives "actually considered." presumably by the antitrust division staff. these two provisions. taken together. may require production of a wider range of staff documents. . in deference to that objection. which i thought was valid. because it could compromise trade secrets. or other material which is confidential. and could compromise the work product of justice department attorneys. it could compromise material which could be used damagingly by competitors and. in addition. could involve the disclosure of intraoffice memoranda which could be unevaluated in the office of the attorney general. in charge of the antitrust laws. the department of justice. as i understand from senator tumfiy. has drawn two amendments to bring about the necessary change which. at the appropriate time. i will offer as amendments to the bill and which i understand are acceptable to senator tunney.
. in response. i may say that these two amendments. i understand. were drawn up by the department of justice to cover this particular point. the department has other points of opposition. but i have  undertaken to stand for the departments position. other than as to these changes. which i favor. so someone else will have to take up the cudgels for the department. i do wish to make two other points. and i am glad the senator from michigan is in the chamber to hear them. i have for some time been working on a bill to establish a commission to study the antitrust laws and how they should be revised to accord with modern ecoic necessity in this country. i believe that the present bill deals partially with the problems of the antitrust laws. dealing with the methodology by which they may be enforced. what we are beginning to see is a piecemeal approach to changing the antitrust laws. a bill went through the other day. dealing with a unique aspect of the antitrust laws as it relates to bottlers of soft drinks. several years ago we enacted legislation giving special treatment to socalled failing newspapers. i find this trend toward ad hoc. piecemeal legislation disturbing. i k that the senator from michigan is willing to hold hearings on my bill. s. 1196. which takes a broader approach and i wish to ask him. while he is in the chamber. if he would be good egh to respond to the question of granting hearings on s. 1196. to create a study commission
. there are two central themes to the amendment. one is the central theme that we are only maintaining the exemption at its parity in depreciated dollars. and the second theme is that it is a necessary ackledgment of differences in ecoic circumstances between small business establishments in different parts of the country . the senator from texas . if i got his words exactly. said. "we have the mistaken idea that there exists ecoic differences." were his words. "between new york and. for example. the rural parts of texas." to answer that. first. we understand very well that there are those ecoic differences. that is why this minimum is  $3 or $3.50.
. since 1953. when the small business administration was established by a concerned congress. the agency has recognized the importance of keeping the small business community alive and thriving. the essence of the american ecoic system of free enterprise is open competition and the establishment of sba 20 years ago by the eisenhower administration was due recognition of the primary role small business plays in our ecoic system. for nearly two decades. the agency has sought to fill the major needs of the nations more than 8 million small businesses. this period has opened a dramatic surge of individual initiative in a competitive atmosphere where small businesses is such a dynamic force in our ecoy. sba has provided small firms financial assistance through loans and longterm equity financing. help in obtaining government prime and subcontracts. and management and technical advice and counseling. the agency also helps victims of disasters. and in a substantial way. broadens opportunities for individual imagination. initiative and enterprise. the agency places increased emphasis on identifying and analyzing small business problems. and has coordinated the combined efforts of public and private sectors to fulfill their needs. sbas role continues to be one of leadership in stimulating and coordinating all possible sources of assistance needed to develop new concerns and strengthen the competitive position of these already in existence. although the sba originally was established as a temporary agency with a 2year life span. the congress in 1958 made it a permanent fixture in the federal establishment. the wisdom of that decision is clearly evident in the agencys record of performance and in the growth and strength of small business. i want to recognize officially the sbas 20th anniversay year and to commend its dedicated employees and administrator tom kleppe through whose efforts the small business community is helped to continue to be such a vital force in our national ecoy.
 if i may. in colloquy with the manager of the bill. the senator from wisconsin . i would like to inquire of the managers of the bill concerning the purpose of a provision added to s. 4 by the compromise amendment in the nature of a substitute. i refer specifically to section 424 entitled "other risks" which authorizes the insurance corporation to insure. subject to all the appropriate limitations. the payment of other classes of benefits under a plan wherever feasible. to prescribe the terms and conditions of such insurance and to establish and collect such premiums as may be necessary. it is my understanding that this provision was adopted in order to deal with problems of certain plans which are negotiated in the basic metal. metal mining. and related industries.
. we are all deeply concerned with the problems of mental hospitals. i would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues an interesting recent article. which proposes a reasonable response to the common framework of legal. social. and other constraints faced by these institutions. the article. "es on organizational consulting to mental hospitals." is written by dr. kenn rogers. his credentials follow: professor of business administration. the cleveland state university. cleveland. ohio. formerly. professor of organizational behavior. the american university. washington. d.c. dr. rogers received his ph.d. in psychology from the university of london. england. and is a member of the american marketing association. the american psychological association. the british psychological association. the british market research society. the american academy of political and social science. the academy of management. the world association of public opinion research. and the association of voluntary action scholars. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this article be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "insurers  too keen on new plan." printed in the journal of commerce of october 19. 1973. be printed in the record. the article points out that the private insurance industry is unwilling to commit itself to the plan proposed by the subcommittee on multinational corporations of the committee on foreign relations to turn over investment insurance from overseas private investment corporation to a private syndicate.
. we will  let this agency. which has and continues to serve this vital segment of our business community. cease its major operations while we consider the culpability of persons in the agency. i commend my colleagues in their investigatory effort and i do  mean in any way to minimize the allegations but it is simply too dangerous to the small business community and the sba to hold the necessary ceiling increase hostage pending the outcome of the investigations currently underway and i feel my colleagues will give this state of facts their every consideration.
the two arguments which i screen out of the arguments by our distinguished colleague from th carolina. are. first. that the measure should be referred to the judiciary committee. and. second. that it will have an adverse impact on the judicial system of this country. his third argument is that senators should have an opportunity to offer and argue their amendments. and that those who have offered the some 95 amendments should have that opportunity. let me point out that if it comes to cloture. those amendments will be subjected to the test of germaneness. but they may all be voted on. senator can be shut off even if the time has expired. this corporation measure to establish a legal service has been considered twice before. the judiciary committee. as indicated by yesterdays vote. ackledges the interest of the committee on labor and public welfarereally because this is a successful and elemental part of the social program and. in terms of the sense of dignity and the benefit of the poor. it has  been sought by the committee whose ox is being gored. cloture or . the senator from th carolina can move to refer it and get a yea and nay vote on referring to the judiciary coinmittee right here on the floor. if senators are given a chance to dispose of the matter. that is why senators should vote for cloture. as to the argument of its impact on the legal system. who is a better judge of that than the american bar association. and the american bar associations president. mr. chesterfield smith. writes the following. and if i use my time reading that. i think that is fine. this is the best evidence. he says: the american bar association has long been interested in the creation of an independent national legal services corporation and has on three occasions adopted policy positions in support of this concept. i am pleased to inform you that s. 2686. as reported. fully complies with the associations insistence on assuring the independence of lawyers for the poor to provide professional legal services to clients. i urge that the legislation be speedily and favorably acted upon by the senate and that any amendments seeking to restrict the independence of lawyers or the access of their clients to our processes of justice be resisted.
i thank the senator. finally. i wish to express to the senator great appreciation for the way in which the overseas private investment corporation was handled. first. when it was here. an error was made in the amount of the provision. in the nature of the provision. too much of it having been stricken out when it came before the senate. the senator himself corrected it. so that they had basic authority. that was gratifying. second. i gather that the conference gave $25 million of the $50 million they sought.
. the american bar association. section of antitrust laws. has enacted a resolution which it seems to me is a very. very favorable one to a matter which i have been pursuing. which is the expression of support for s. 1196. introduced by my colleagues senators hrusxa. mcgee. and tower. as well as s. 2659. introduced by the senator from maryland . and the bill in the other body. all of which seek. by an appropriate commission. a review of the antitrust laws. this really should be one of the highest priority matters in our whole effort to deal with the business system of the united states. i commend the resolution to my colleagues and ask unanimous consent that the recommendations be made a part of my remarks.
. periodically our country is benefited in the public service by talented americans of exceptional vision. c. jackson grayson. former price commission chairman. is one of those americans. chairman grayson has written a very provocative article in the most recent issue of the harvard business review. judging from chairman graysons background. his demonstrated intellect and his obvious sincerity. the article is one which should be read by all interested in the future of our ecoic system. chairman grayson warns us that this system is shifting from a free market ecoy to one that is centrally directed and under public control. this change. he asserts. is  so much the result of revolutionaries and radicals as it is of congressmen and even business and labor leaders themselves. we seem to have talked ourselves into a mentality under which government is expected to protect business from competition. rather than foster it. chairman grayson implies. he sums up this attitude with the phrase that many businessmen "prefer regulation to the problems freedom poses." if this is the caseand chairman grayson makes a strong casethen we should be seriously concerned. competition and free enterprise are actually sophisticated devices for setting prices. allocating resources and labor. and "regulating" a socialist ecoy. as chairman grayson points out. it is virtually impossible to devise any controls system which is free of distortions and inequities. and the free market system is the best system of "controls" we have under mal conditions. chairman grayson lists 10 ways we can make our private competitive system function better. and how we can make what public control there is better quality control. i commend his article to the senates attention and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
there is question about that. and  only. as i say. is that the case. but let us look at the commitment of the white house and its limitations. what they have saidin the letter of october 4 written by melvin laird. counsellor to the president. addressed to senator nelsonis: therefore. we urge that final action be taken on the bill in this general form by the full committee and by the senate followed by an expeditious reconciliation of issues with the house passed bill so that the best possible measure may result and a national legal services corporation may be implemented at the earliest opportunity. in the same letter. they also say: while we differ with some of the specific provisions of the bill as reported. we believe it does include essential principles proposed in the administrations bill such as independence and accountability of the corporation. freedom of the attorney to represent his client. and maintenance of a vital program. the white house was absolute as they made this arrangement with me. i speak with the greatest personal kledge. the white house reserved its right to use whatever influence it has in the congress. and it is well kn that they favor some elements of the house bill. but that is all right with us. we can fight that. we say. ". let us get on with the business of considering amendments to the bill and getting it out of the senate. and then we will take our chancesand fightin conference." there is hing locked in about the bill. however. we believe that the great majority of us are in essential agreement. and wish to implement a pretty well agreed upon effort.
although the general intent of the bill is to continue the present program in a new framework as proposed by the president. the committee has taken care to permit flexibility on the part of the corporation in meeting the needs of the poor in a particular state. to that end. section 1006(a) of the committee bill authorizes the corporation to fund programs through individuals. partnerships. firms. corporations. and state and local government. as well as through profit organizations. the latter. as the senator ks. have been the principal vehicles for the program to date. additionally. section 1007(g) requires the corporation to provide for an independent study of alternative and supplemental methods of delivery of legal services to eligible clients. including the "use of appropriate demonstration projects." under this provision. a particular state might participate in a demonstration project. there is funding limitation on section 1007 (g). accordingly. we have sought to permit flexibility on the part of the board to depart from the existing system. either to insure the most adequate means of delivery in a particular state or to test out new concepts such as judicare.
. there will be a matter in conference on this question of what can be done with state govers and state agencies. the senate bill finds that there may be agreements between the new corporation and state and local governments. where the state or local government applies and there is a special determination by the board of the corporation that the arrangement to be made will provide supplemental service which can adequately be provided through governmental arrangements. the house bill leaves a very wideopen mandate.
the program for the overseas private investment corporation was set up in 1949. and i was a party to it.. john vorys. of ohio. a distinguished representative. and i sponsored it. the investment guarantee program was put in in the other body. it has been going since 1949. the only thing that varies. from it  is the form of a corporation. which has brought about an infinitely better management of the program. it is a very interesting program. and the committee itself started it. it started very small and really began to get rolling when we put it into this form. so the idea that other countries have started the same program does  prove anything. such as that they are going to dismantle their companies. but here it is proposed that we plan to dismantle ours. they are  trying to dismantle their corporations. but we are trying to dismantle ours. there is the significant fact that the other principal industrial countries have done it. but why. that is the critical question. it is very interesting that when. one does  like an argument. he does  make it. the fact is that the only argument the committee. has made about the rationale for this. particular investment proposition is the following one. i would like to read it. because i think it is significant to what is really at stake and why a decision such as we are asked to make is completely wrong. i read from pages 16 and 17 of the committee report. in which. under the heading "does the investment guarantee program assist ecoic development in the ldcs." the following is stated: the basic rationale for including the overseas private investment corporation in the foreign assistance act was that it would help promote the development of third world coiimtries friendly to the united states. this argument rests on two premises: (i) the investment guarantee program is an incentive to direct corporate investment in the. poorer countries. (i1) such investment is beneficial to the ecoic development of these countries. hing is said about the interest of the united states whatever. if one listened to what the committee said. he would think all we are doing is buttering up a lot of big corporations or trying to be beneficial to the ecoic development of those poorer countries. what of the implied benefit to uswhat about the exports of the united states which are affected by the investments and operations of these companies in underdeveloped countries. these other countries place great importance in that. and our country should place great importance in that. finally. to the question of raw material resources. oil is the tip of the iceberg. it is the beginning. the oil companies have done a lot of cutting and trimming and profiteering. i am sure. but suppose they were  operating at all. could we see a government corporation carrying on oil exploration and the other operations and the storing of it and having to decide where it goes. and so forth. this will apply to many commodities. if the united states were to go this route. we will live to find we have made a mistake. just as we did in respect of oil. in  awakening soon egh to the responsibility and the authority needed. that is a critical element of this whole proposition. . we are asked to dismantle something because. relatively speaking. considering the amounts of money involved compared to investments which are multibillion dollar ones. it is argued we. may have to appropriate $25 million for additional reserves. but without the remotest relevancy and comparison of what is at stake in this world in which we are trying to have a part. aher thing of critical importance which we have discovered in 25 years is that we are longer the absolutely dominant factor in the world that we were. we have much competition. and very keen competition. and we must take an accounting of that. and  cavalierly dismantle a measure which gives us an element of being able to do that which we would  otherwise be able to do.
he would have to have 25 percent participation in each contract or by the end of the year he would find himself holding the bag and government official can do that. one has a greater opportunity in terms of understanding this business and how it operates than the senator. but his position. as i see it. has also a certain amount of consideration to it because i was  involved. and you had a member on the subcommittee who wanted to eliminate thata very influential and senior member. senator cass. he and yousenator percy and senator churchare probably the most active in terms of the subcommittee. so. looking at it from this vantage point. from where the senator from illis was sitting. i could understand where he might say we have to see this thing through because it may be in jeopardy. second. which is very important. we are all very wise in ways of legislating. what i am really trying to do by my amendment is to say. look. do  cut it off automatically so that if you want to restore them we have to pass a law that is a much tougher one. and senator church and the majority may say. cut them off automatically because that is the only way. i appeal. when i ask the senator to change his mind and i say to the senator from illis. you are a very able businessman. as a matter of fact. it works. in my judgment. or will work exactly to the contrary. if you write this in. thinking you can make them do it. you will  make business do it. on the contrary. you will scare them off. an insurance company is private business. what you mean to get down to is a waylet us even assume this--and i am willing to assume itis that the way to get it done is the way i suggest. you will  merely get it done just with hopeshopes we will  pass these amendments. it is all very understandable. mr. mays is  getting into a fight with senators. he is leaving that to me. but from my point of viewand i have been. as it were. a protagonist for opic on everything which has passed on this floori say that there are people expecting us to get this to work and to keep control of it. which we will be doing under the amendments as proposed. but let us  have an automatic cutoff. because we can force a private insurance company to go into this because congress says unless they do it is out of business. we may be able to force opic. but we can force a private insurance company.
i thank the senator from rhode island. i respect him. indeed. it goes beyond respect. as he ks. as we have served together for a long time. i shall answer his questions specifically. first. as to socialism for big business. here are the facts. the facts are that the united states. since 1949. has been trying to substitute for elements of aid to the developing countries. that is all this is confined to--private investment which it considered to be desirable toward aid objectives. in pursuance of that. it has had a guarantee for private investment. it does  cover all private investment. it is estimated that it might cover as much as a quarter of the private investment in developing countries. question: if the u.s. government guarantees against certain risks  business risks. there is business risk insurancebut guarantees against governmental risk. guarantees against incontrovertibility and against expropriation and against war and insurrection. the united states should do that in order to encourage private investment abroad in which it considers it has a public interest because it helps the developing countries in a way which is the least expensive and the least onerous to us. it is  socialism for big business. it is conducive to our own foreign policy. and that is the way this thing has run for years and years. the reason we put opic into business in 1969 is that we wanted a more effilcient way to run it. as a matter of fact. it has proved to be more efficient. opic in that period of time has taken in about $30 million a year in premiums. and its actual payments on claims in that period of time. in round figures. has been $35 million. so on that trade offin other words. roughly $130 million to $35 millionit certainly has done very well. insurance company has. dollar for dollar. all the liabilities it incurs. neither has opic. opic has to operate with a given amount of capital and the capital was furnished by the u.s. government in the sense of appropriations. but it is a very profitable business in which capital is investedif we let it continue. with $30 million a year income for about $2 million a year in administration expenses for outgo. it is claimed. and this is incomprehensible to me. that this is socialism because it gives a guarantee. my goodness. we give guarantees to maritime companies to build ships. and to banks to guarantee deposits. and have mortgage guarantees and very many more. it is really quite difficult for me to understand how at one and the same time a senator can advocate the program and urge that it be continued and then make a speech which can lead to only one conclusion. that it should be terminated.  only on financial grounds but also on moral grounds. there must be something wrong with that argument. the senator from rhode island is on the commerce committee. we have spent a fortune trying to get export business. we have given them bank services and seminars. yet a very small percentage of american business is engaged in export. if we want overseas investment. we have to look to these massive companies. one has found a better scheme. so with all due respect i must dismiss the argument of socialism which implies some sort of handout. in the business judgment of any member. i wish to ask. is a large corporation going into foreign investment for the purpose of collecting the insurance. does that make any sense. it seems to me that it falls of its own implausibility. are they going to make investments in romania or yugoslavia for the insurance. they are going into it because they have made a business decision that it is a wise thing to do businesswise. then. they come to the next step. is it wise to do so so far as the government. or political system within whose confines they will be doing business. that is where this opic guarantee pushes them to an affirmative decision because it gives certain guarantees along those lines. we felt it was desirable for the last 25 years. and this committee thinks it is desirable today. withstanding all the argument. so we are only arguing about how it should be done. the other arguments are irrelevant unless we are going to defeat the bill and i do  think the senator from idaho brought the bill to the floor of the senate thinking that it would be defeated. although he did say he would  weep crocodile tears if it did go by the board. the next question was: are the industrialized nations copying us. i do  k whether they are or . they have organized corporations and we have organized corporations. all i k is they are  dismantling their corporations. and their premiums are lower than ours. the third point made by my colleague is: what does this mean to the interests of america. the fact is we are going downhill in foreign aid. 15 percent in terms of per capita income. or any other standard. withstanding all of our troubles and everything one can say about america. we are still the richest nation on earth. we do  want to be the rich man on a poor street. and this world is a poor street. we are in the interamerican bank. the international monetary fund. and so forth. we are trying to get out of the direct aid business. either in loans or grants and this is one of the great programs that helps us to do that. it is as direct and simple as that. it is an ecoical program. this is to the benefit of our country.
. the basic opic legislation has a ceiling on reinsurance of $7.5 billion. that ceiling is upped by the committee bill to $12 billion with the condition i just expressed. the amendment cuts back the $12 billion to $7.5 billion. as i believe and those who join with me believe that the $7.5 billion is adequate for the purpose of reinsurance. but the amendment does eliminate one provision which i have just read. and that is that the insurance company which has reinsurance has a deductible in respect of that reinsurance. that is. it can collect from opic on that reinsurance. more than 50 percent of the value of all insurance it has outstanding in the country in which it has issued the most insurance. subject to reinsurance by the corporation. what we contend. all other arguments in respect of opic having been made. is that. first. the purpose of the whole bill to introduce insurance coverage into this section will be nullified by this particular condition on opic reinsurance because insurance companies simply will  accept this condition. again for the same reason the previous amendment was carried. that it just represents an impossibility and. therefore. that opic will be unable to get the a basic insurance we want it to get through division with private insurance companies because it is unable to meet the condition the legislation would call for in respect of reinsurance. that is the essential point respecting the matter. i wish to refer specifically to the position taken by opic in this particular matter. they feel that private insurance companies that have studied the committee bill simply find the reinsurance section unacceptable to them. unless it is changed they will  write any political risk insurance. the company most prominently mentioned. the firemens insurance co.. has said: the proposed legislation stipulates the amount of reinsurance coverage which in our opinion are inadequate and stipulations that are unrealistic. i call the continuing liability of insurance companies "deductibles" but they call them "retentions." but it comes to the same thing. if the desire is to bring about a system by which private insurance companies insure these investors. subject to reinsurance by opic. we must have a realistic opic plan and this plan. according to the very insurance company that is being constantly cited by the proponents of the bill. is unsatisfactory in regard to reinsurance.
. as ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. i have for some time been concerned with the safety and health of employees in various work places throughout the united states. i cosponsored the original osha legislation and continue to be deeply concerned with the implementation of current department of labor osha regulations. in addition. as ranking miity member of the senate select committee on small business i am quite sympathetic to the problems small businessmen face in attempting to comply with the osha regulations and i have offered an amendment to the osha law which would provide onsite consultation by the dol to the small business community. it is in this dual capacity that i share the concern of senator clark as to the effect of the osha regulations on the small business community and at the same time concur with senator cranstons statement that though the sba legislative authority is broad egh to encompass a program of onsite consultacxx---815---part 10 tion. it is quite unrealistic to expect the sba. which is already overburdened with a variety of tasks. to provide the type of onsite consultation the small business community deserves. for this reason. i would like to join senator cranston in asking the administrator of the small business administration to survey the actual need for this type of onsite consultation. it would be helpful if the agency reported back to both the small business subcommittee of the banking. housing and urban affairs and the senate select committee on small business within 6 months from the enactment of this legislation with a more definitive statement as to the nature and scope of the needs of the small businessmen as they relate to compliance with osha. senator cranston has briefly mentioned a possible arrangement whereby the sba would be able to contract with firms approved by the department of labor. that have the necessary expertise in the osha area to provide the onsite consultation. i think this idea has great merit and should be investigated. in addition. i have considered the possibility of allowing approved private organizations to independently provide onsite consultation services to the small business community and be reimbursed a portion of their expense upon proof of compliance to the dol. which under the circumstances. is the proper agency to administer this sort of program.
that. . represents essentially the vital thrust of idaindeed the survival of countries that do  have important raw material exports which can profit from generally higher prices for raw materials in this country depends on this assistance. we do  want them excessively to rely on american exports because of our own marginal condition. as i have just described it. therefore. the objective is to get them to produce more of their own food. and for this it is absolutely essential that they have capital investments which they can afford and can service and which will bankrupt them unless it is done through the soft loan terms of ida.
may i differ. most respectfully. with the senator. i think it has everything to do with the powers and scope of their work. for this reason. we are dealing with an established situation in which these existing centers have been working in many cases with law schools and they have had a certain type of approach. what is left here is simply. are inhouse operations like those of any law firm. and that is what the house of representatives contended for and what the administration has indicated will be signed. after all. we can have a legal services corporation where the people who are working in these various legal services can do any research.
i am pleased that the senator from wisconsin. the chairman of the senate conferees has included in the record a complete statement with respect to the major elements of the conference agreement. as i did when the conference report was first considered here last week. in particular. i am pleased with the chairmans statement following statements by the managers in the house of representatives to the effect that the prohibition contained in section 1010(c) on the use of public and tribal funds received by the corporation is subject to important exceptions: one relating to the source of funds and the other relating to the entity receiving the funds. whatever their source. this will permit the continuation of federal funding for entities such as the legal aid society of new york without subjecting that funding to the restrictions contained in this bill. that society and others like it depend very significantly on contributions from the organized bar. as well as other federal sources. and during the conference we took care to insure that they and the other entities spelled out in the second exception. are exempt from the prohibition so that they can continue to receive funds as they do . without restriction. s desk. i do  think either one is justified. i think it is high time that this matter was at last brought to a definitive conclusion. i do  think the senate is going to fall for the kind of irresolution. which an effort is being made to introduce.  that the white house will. i hope very much. therefore. that when the time comes to vote we will disapprove the helms amendment which. by the way. it is agreed is to be voted on en bloc and with a backtoback vote on the original motion which i trust the senate will carry and at long last send the measure to the white house. where we have every right to believe it will be signed.
. i am pleased to join with the senator from new hampshire in introducing the federal domestic development bank act. this bill will establish a forprofit corporation patterned after the concept of the world bank and other successful international development banking concepts which will be authorized to extend credit and participate in extensions of credit to both government and private business. render technical and management assistance in connection with its activities and thereby aid ecoically depressed urban and rural regions which have suffered ecoic hardships. as shown by a variety of indices. in order to stimulate employment opportunity in those areas. promote the ecoic survival and preservation of jobs in those businesses whose markets are being threatened by increased import penetration. and contribute to a wellbalanced national ecoy by facilitating business ownership by persons whose participation in the free enterprise system is and continues to be hampered by historic. ethnic. social and ecoic considerations. senator mciwtyre has quite ably described the provisions of the bill. and has put the legislation in perspective relative to other federal government activities. i do. however. wish to make some observations as to the need for this legislation. the basic operating scheme and why i believe its consideration is so important to our national ecoy as a whole and to small businessmen in particular.
. when there is that kind of an inducement. when we k the market situation in terms of commercial credit to be what it is. and when we have a major interest in continuing the production of the f14. which  turns out to be an invaluable resource for our defense establishment. i believe a strong case is made to reject this resolution. therefore. i ask that the senate reject the proxmlre resolution -disapproving these urgently needed advance payments. i ask that my recent letter to senator .can which further elaborates my -position on this matter be printed at this point in my remarks.
. the reforms which are incorporated in the small business act amendments of 1975 represent a recognition of the fact that withstanding the size of great corporations. most of the business in this country and most of the employment is carried o1. still. under the heading of small business. and. therefore small business week means the most. in impersonal terms. to our nation as represented by its literally millions of small businessmen and their employees. these amendments will accomplish the following: first. improve the sba lease guarantee program by including within its scope "personal property" as well as "real property." second.. benefit the estates and heirs of retired and lowincome persons by authorizing the sba. under certain circumstances. upon the death of the borrower. to forgive a portion of disaster loans made to such individual to repair their homes. third. raise the equal opportunity loan maximum from $50.000 to $100.000. fourth. raise the local development company loan maximum from $350.000 to $500.000. fifth. raise the sba regular business loan maximum from $350.000 to $500.000. sixth. expand the sba displaced business program by authorizing the sba to render financial and other assistance to small businesses displaced by state and local urban renewal projects in addition to federal projects. seventh. provide authority for the sba to make loans for the "acquisition"
we hope that the cost will be hing. except that the guarantee authority of the united states poses a contingent liability. we have found in other guarantees. if the proper care is takenand i contemplate that in the billthe guarantees have proved to be profitable to the united states. . the point i am making is that there is question about the credit. the shortterm credit. of these various municipalities. even the reporting agencies say that. they just simply can get buyers for their securities. and when their own states are in trouble comparable to the cities they are up against a blank wall. i am the first to say that discipline in respect to firings or contraction of service. and so forth. is absolutely in order. and the bill contemplates thatand quite properly. but i do say that it is inconceivable that a municipality should go bankrupt in terms of the rendering of absolutely essential services which it must provide to citizens of the united states. and that is what this bill is all about. i thank my colleague. by the way. i thank the senator from virginia very much for enabling me to elucidate this point. i think. as usual. he has put his finger on a very critical point. the burden of proof is on us to show that the bill is exactly tailored to deal with a unique crisis. and only that. and that is all we intend.
. i wish to say that the confirmation today of the inations to the legal services corporation marks a real milestone in the progress of our country. though this is a recent program. it has been an absolute revelation in what it has meant to the poor. the breaking of the syndrome of poverty. and so on. we have had a very hard time with this. it has been almost 2 years before this corporation could get underway. it is . hopefully. underway with the board confirmed. while many of us. including myself. have had a lot to do with the legal services corporation in its final stages. in order to get the last two inees confirmed and to unravel what was really a can of worms with respect to these inations. bedeviling what was already a sadly deferred situation. senator cranston of california has rendered us all a distinct service by. in a sense. just taking it upon himself to put all the pieces together. calling upon any of us that he thought could help. including myself. to help. and. finally. swallowing very hard at the last two inees and concurring because he knew it was the way to get the job done. i think we would all be remiss if i did . as i k the facts so intimately. call these facts to the attention of the senate.
. i am glad the senator has offered this amendment. i am the ranking member of the small business committee. and considering the present ecoic uncertainty and the stimulus which increased credit will give. i think it is a very useful precaution. and i join the senator in appreciation for both senator pastores and senator hruskas constructive attitude.
the $15 million in the conference report obviously is a very small installment on what the committee on banking thought was necessary. it is true that we have had experience and. instead of seeking to amend or opposing. or anything like that. because i have too much regard for senator paoxzure. i am simply going to ask whether or  we could take it that. one. the committee will use its authorityas far as the senator can manage it. of courseto get after hud to see that it moves promptly to promulgate regulations on the guarantee. so that those who need it in a serious situation can at least test out the use of the law. and second. that the committee would monitor the $15 million provision in order to see whether the exigencies simply require more and if they do. it would give us a way to deal with that question in a supplemental.
if they do that. do they  have to wait until they give all increases before deciding whether they have invaded the ceiling so e can become operative. i can understand perfectly the 20 percent in individual market areas. but the 10 percent aggregate across the country. unless they get some guidance from the legislative history-
s council of ecoic advisers. the fed. as we popularly call the federal. reserve board. might easily come under that category of having solely policymaking functions were it  for precisely the kind of agency administrative functions relating to consumers which i expressly excluded from the amendment. the heart of the proposition put before us by chairman arthur burns is the following. and i would like to quote from a memorandum to me on this subject. speaking of the board. it is inconceivable to us that congressional requests. for example. for agency comments on proposed legislation. requests for experienced assistance in stated congressional efforts. or requests for responses to congressional inquiries. are intended to be kn by the public before transmission to the congress. at aher point in his memorandum to me. he really gives the essence of the federal reserves position. he says: with few exceptions each of the boards regularly scheduled meetingsand there are about 150 a year as this is a board that meets very. very frequently. an average of three times a week. winter. summer. spring and fallis involved with matters. the sensitivity and intricacy of which if exposed to public discussion would lead to misunderstanding. misinterpretation and disruptive and harmful speculation. examples include deliberative processes in monetary policy formulation. receipt. transmission and evaluation of national and international market information. and incident to the formulation of bank regulatory policy. discussion of confidential appraisals and sensitive judgments relating to member bank and/or bank holding company operations. remembering that the federal reserve is organized with 12 member banks in the great financial centers of the country. the major areas in which it is felt -g the chairman that these dangers are exposed are as follows: one. the definition of the word "meeting." that is found at page 44 of the bill. it is page 44. lines 7 to 11. it defines a meeting as being the following: for purposes of this section. a meeting means the deliberations of at least a number of individual agency members required to take action on behalf of the agency where such deliberations concern the joint conduct or disposition of official agency business.
the new york banks and the city pension system have agreed to take 10year. 6percent city securities in connection with a moratorium which is being carried through for the bank holders. who have $1.6 billion. to the extent of $1 billion in city es. which are going to be currently due. second. the new york banks and the city pension systems have agreed to take 10year securities in exchange for new york assistance corp.. which is a state agency. bonds bearing 8.9percent interest. and having shorter maturities. the maturities are relatively close. this was around 1980. these were two of the conditions which appealed very much to the president. in respect to what the senator from wisconsin has called a rollover.
that is reason whatever. i say unequivocally.  they would  dream of touching them. does the senator k that the new york banks have been considered by foreign depositors to be in some jeopardy. and that there was grave worry of huge withdrawals of deposits. and deposits in other countries. precisely because they tried to help the city in this way. i flatly deny that they bought them for the interest. they would be out of their minds if they run that kind of risk in order to gain 2 or 3 points in interest. you can buy socalled triplea state bonds of various states at 5 percent or 6 percent today. i could  conceive of a banker buying these bonds for the reason that he is going to get 2 or 3 more percent. running that risk. one could  find a market for those bonds in new york city. one could  find a bidder. levanthal and co.. the leading bond house in the city as far as city bonds are concerned. testified to that.
. i  have a chart. which may be of some use in this matter. of the distribution by states of signflciant holdings of the commercial banks in new york obligations. it indicates the number of banks in each state. the deposits in those banks. the new york state obligations and agencies. new york city obligations held. and the percentage of these banks represented by these holdings. by states. i ask unanimous consent to have this chart printed in the record.
second. i am constrained to identify myself with the remarks of the senator from massachusetts and the senator from wisconsin. which i think are very temperate. in the sense that i agree with senator brooke that when the new york banks bought new york shortterm es. it was a business transaction and it was important to their depositors and their stockholders. however. what i have referred to was the mac bond purchase. which was source: the data for state member and national banks were obtained from a review of examination worksheets conducted during july and august at the district and regional offices. the data were subsequently verified and updated by telephone contact with the banks. the data for state member banks were obtained from a survey conducted by the fdic during september and october encompassing a field of approximately 950 specifically selected banks. strictly a rescue operationthat is. the municipal assistance corporationand  the rollover. which senator proxmire has pointed out will cost a minimum of 15 percent and could go as high as 30 percent of the face value of those bonds in the way of a writedown. especially in the absence of any market. and because this particular plan is so minimal in its nature as to raise these questions as to repayment at the end of the time. the other thing i would like to call to the attention of the senate is the debate which took place about bank stockholders. i believe that this a very serious questionas to whether any stockholder or a bank would want to reveal whether that bank is in any trouble because of the holdings of new york city obligations. when a person buys bank stock. his principal interest is in keeping that bank open. the stock of the franklin national bank. it might interest all to kone was absolutely wiped out very recently. therefore. i think it is very proper to question whether this is information which in any really provident sense. even for the stockholder. should be disclosed. i do  say that it is or is . i do  think it ought to cast a reflection upon this legislation to make a decision of that character within this framework. especially as we do have figures which indicate the orders of magnitude which are involved by states. finally. . i think that what needs to be taken into account in this debate. and it bears directly upon the question answered by senator proxmire. is that we are  doing this because we are bailing out banks or bailing out any other interest. we are doing it because full faith and credit is all that stands behind any obligation in this country of any municipality or state other than the united states. ody else can print money. only the united states. so that is the place of last resort. but everybody else. and that represents something in the area of at least a third to a half of the debt which is raised here .every year. and all our states and all our municipalities live on it. depends on full faith and credit. what does that mean. it means that an obligation contracted by the people will  be invalidated by default or will  be invalidated by repudiation. that is why there is a broad public policy which is involved here. too. in addition to the precedent. and i am very conscious of what the senator from virginia says. and i wish to assure him that i have the greatest respect for the questions and the debate and his most prying inquiry. the senator will consult the record and will find that i was just as severe as any member of the banking committee. although i sat there by their invitation. as to what my city and my state had to do to qualify for any federal aid at all. i was  a bit satisfied with them when they said. very early in the game. well. they had done all they can. i thoroughly agree with that.  i think we have the horse down to where he is taking so little food that he may very well die. i think he will still be breathing. but that is about all. i do agree and i respect the inquiries. and i should like to assure the senator from virginia. as i am very much involved in the facts and figures. that i shall do my best to supply anything he may wish on this subject.
. there has been a good deal of publicity recently about the problems of our nations banks and the ability of our government supervisory agencies to deal with them. the publicity touches on some very sensitive issues. reading through letters from my constituents. i am struck by the alarm with which they view any news which casts aspersions on our nations banking system. the issues which they regard as important are basically two: the adequacy of our bank regulatory agencies. and. the extent to which the public should k about the kinds of loans which a bank has outstanding. as to the adequacy of our bank regulatory agencies i am heartened to see that the appropriate committees in both the house and senate are actively looking into the problem. i welcome the initiative which seems to be taking place in the congress to take a fresh look at our whole bank regulatory structure. with regard to the second issue. specifically. i refer to the issue of socalled classified loans. which has become a point of contention since the existence of such loans may reflect on the financial condition of the bank. according to some. the public has a right to k about the financial condition of such banks and in particular of the amounts of types of classified loans. this issue is very clearly explained in a recent article in the new york times by walter b. wriston. the chairman of one of our nations largest banks. mr. wriston gives a bankers opinion. but he introduces arguments into the debate over the responsibility of banks and bank regulatory agencies which i believe should be heard. for example. he es quite correctly that  all classified loans represent a significant impairment of the banks own finances. a headache. for example. is  the same as a case of leukemia. he also makes the vary valid point that if banks simply made loans on the basis of highest credit risk. the circle of credit extended by banks would contract until it included only aaa securities and would drop down our ecoy. i commend this article by mr. wriston to my colleagues and ask unanimous consent that it be inserted in the record at this point.
 i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a february 12. 1976. article from the buffalo evening news which describes the niagara frontier a & p case. and an article from the february 1976 institutional investor which contains the results of its survey on erisa costs.
. the techogy development corporation that is established in s. 3111 would provide the needed mechanism and funding authority to begin this new partnership. without it. i do  believe our energy problems will be solved for many more years than necessary because so much of our capacity will lie idle. capacity that we all k exists and can be tapped. furthermore. if we are to give any but the largest of our corporate enterprises any change to participate meaningfully in the next era of americas growth and development. we must provide the financial means to get good ideas moving. the speech by mr. fenster is strong evidence that such a new capability is needed in the federal government. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the rzcord.
 at all. but only arguing because there is uniquely a federal agency connected with the oversight activity of this committee. and that. in effect. it is this committee.  the committee on banking. which has oversight on small business that we ought to have the authority which goes with the responsibility. that is what i am saying.
because it goes into the agriculture department and other broad government departments which are  rifleshotted to a particular issue over which we have oversight. it is a very different situation. in my judgment. in addition. as i say. the small business community of the country has feltand i think justly so--that everybodys business was odys business. while we were nice fellows and we investigated a lot of good things and we made a lot of good reports. even when it came to confirming the director of the small business administration. it was  we who did it. but aher committee. i can see how a small businessman would really feel that this emous interest that he is a part of is adequately recognized in congress if we did  at least give this additional element of authority to our committee.
 but the senator is quite wrong in the range of jurisdiction which has  been availed of adequately. for one. there is research and development. for aher. there is marketing. both of which are critically essential to the small business community. for aher. there is executive training which has been much neglected. for aher there is consolidation of procurement contracts. which is one of the most neglected aspects of the sba. look. sir. your committee is great. but it can cover the waterfront. in this particular case i deeply believe small business has suffered. that is why the demand. and that is why approximately 70 senators have gotten together to meet that demand because they consider it legitimate. that is the fact. i have been working for yearsi authored the collective provision for small business to get into research and development free of the antitrust laws. it has hardly been touched.  we have a burning intercst in that. and the reason is that when you "have a grievance so widespread as this one you have got to have a remedy. and that is what this is all about. . when the rules committee decides to reorganize the committees it will reorganize this one like every other. it will take its lumps with every other. but. in the meantime. a year. 2. 3. 4 have already gone by since this matter came up.
but to use a provision of the law which says that small business may combine. withstanding the antitrust laws. to achieve collective research and development. that is in the law . that is  special consideration. and that has hardly been exploited. it has been remotely. and these are the grievances which small business has had to which we are giving attention.
well. the senator from new york has pointed out that in research and other marketing practices of a technical character and of a training character. in the consolidation of procurement contracts. there are emous possibilities in small business right . and we feel we have an infinitely better chance. as we do the oversight anyhow. to bring those to fruition for small business with this reolution than we have as we stand today
. this may be an important day for the small business community. it appears that senate resolution 104 which would transfer the legislative jurisdiction of the subcommittee on small business of the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs to the select committee on small business will pass the senate. there are several compelling reasons for the transfer of this jurisdiction at this time. first. the jurisdiction of the senate banking committee is broad and necessarily sweeping yet the business that that committee conducts that relates to the small business community is minimal. in fact. in the year ending february 29. 1976. the banking committee held a total of 124 days of hearings and only 6 of those were related to small business and conducted by the small business subcommittee. in contrast. the select committee. limited in its jurisdiction to investigations. held a total of 63 separate hearings on all aspects of the small business community. these hearings related to problems that most concern small business men and women in america today. the topics covered included. amongst others. small business tax reform. the paperwork burden. pension program reform. survival of the family farm and sba procurement policies. in fact. several pieces of legislation have been developed from these many hearings. a substantial portion of the small business act amendments of 1975 which passed the senate and are in conference was initially introduced by senator nelson and myself. the bifurcation of small business jurisdiction in the senate has in many instances led to confusion in the small business community. this is a critical segment of our society and ecoy and the small business men and women have had to bear the many difficulties in coping with the burdens imposed by government and the state of our ecoy. the general small business constituency can understand the reason for or how to deal with these two separate entities within their senate. the situation is needlessly confusing. second. the house of representatives has moved wisely in the direction we are advocating today. at the start of this congress they took the valuable and positive step to transfer jurisdiction from their banking committee to their select committee on small business and that change seems to have worked extremely well. only one additional subcommittee was created to handle the newly acquired legislative jurisdiction and they have taken the lead in introducing creative new legislation based on the existing resources already in place on the new full committee. it seems odd that conferences on small business legislation affecting the sba should be between the house committee on small business and a subcommittee of the senate committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. third. we advocate on sponsoring this resolution only the narrow transfer of the legislative jurisdiction function over sba from the banking committee to the select committee. there would be other impingement on any other committees jurisdiction. the select committee would. however. continue to play the oversight and investigative role as to all and every aspect of problems confronting the small business community that it plays today under its limited select committee status. in addition. we would  be asking for any additional staff if granted this jurisdiction. we feel that we have the existing competence and fulltime interest in this important area to pick up the job whenever we are granted the jurisdiction. the transfer of this authority would simply complete and fulfill the mission to which the select committee has been charged. we would have a clear focus on matters affecting the sba. seventythree of our colleagues have cosponsored senate resolution 104 which senator brock and hathaway introduced. amongst those cosponsors are five members of the banking committee. this would indicate that a vast majority of our colleagues feel the way chairman nelson and i do about this critical legislation.
 i would like to join senator kennedy in his statement respecting blood banks and similar activities and to assure the senator that we will give that consideration. i left it out because it would be takingthis is a bill that i authored--on an emous job which would stop us from a more prompt action on what is generally acceptable regulation in this field. and i hope the senator will bear with us. i am glad that he approves the bill. we did  intrude in any way on questions of jurisdiction because all questions relating to charges. and so forth. are simply informational. but in this field the fact that you have the information. that that information is available to the public. is itself an emous sentinel and ioliceman. but that. however. was as far as we felt we had any right to go. so i am glad the senator agrees. also. we have very heavily relied on state administration again to avoid complicated bureaucracies and overheads. finally. and very importantly. we made the responsibility for regulation that of the physician. all he has to do is to certify that he is doing what needs to be done. and that is the end of that. i think the matter holds together very well. and i thank the senator for his comments.
. this week i join with my colleagues and all americans in the celebration of national small business week. in new york state alone there are over 19.000 miity owned small business enterprises. during the past several months i have received numerous letters from these businessmen and women and i have met with them to discuss the particular problems of their businessesproblems which often go beyond the capitalization. marketing. managerial. and technical problems of all businesspersons. i am joining with senator brooke today in introducing the equal opportunity enterprise act of 1976. a bill designed to expand assistance undei the small business act to small business concerns owned by socially and ecoically disadvantaged americans. in hope that this bill will alleviate many of their problems. i plan within the next few weeks to annce the formation of a new york state miity business legislative advisory committee in order to enable new yorks miity businesspersons to initiate and comment upon legislation that affects their businesses. small business in america is a vital and major part of our ecoy. the statistics are impressive. small businesses: comprise over 95 percent of the businesses in the country. provide 55 percent of our private employment. and contribute 43 percent of americas gross national product. the "bicentennial salute to small business" sponsored this week by the business administration is indeed timely and appropriate. the small business person. from the beginning of our nation. has epitomized the american attributes of leadership. independence. ination. and progress. and these attributes are quite obvious in new york state. where my small business constituents are among the leading contributors to the civic. social. ecoic. and educational growth. as ranking miity member of the senate small business committee. i have been a strong advocate of the growth and development of viable small business in america and it is my belief that all americans must be afforded opportunities for access to and participation in our unique american system of free enterprise. within the general small business community. the particular problems of miity entrepreneurs have been most apparent. in fact. the most recent statistics from the department of commerce indicate that. while miity persons comprise over 15 percent of the nations population only 3 percent of the 13 million businesses in the united states are owned by miity persons. in addition. less than 1 percentor only about 0.65 percentof the $2.5 billion received by u.s. businesses are realized by miity firms. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record at this point.
. the senator from alabama. as usual. validates his reputation here for being very astute. of course. this could be a substitute for the bill. but senator hruska and i have been waiting for 8 years to get to the point where this could be done at all. those who believe in the existing antitrust laws are  prepared to lay them aside. and indeed i am  myself. because we have to have some ecoic policy on the books. and right  that ecoic policy is the existing antitrust laws interpreted by the courts. as to this bill which is before us . the senator again is technically correct. that we are dealing with the antitrust law. because the enforcement machinery is a very important element of the antitrust law. but i am dealing with the substantive law itself and that is  in any way changed or affected except as stricter means of enforcement may change or affect the antitrust law substantively. so. my amendment is completely consistent with the bill. but it does take account of the fact that. under different circumstances. senator hruska and i and before him senator wayne morse and i. tried for years to get this very thing done. it is very unfortunate that it was  done. we would be in a much better position to judge parens patriae. and everything else. if it had been done. but this is life. and it was . but within this frame of reference. when those who believe in the existing antitrust laws feels that they want to fortify questions of enforcement. it becomes very appropriate and even acceptable to them that the substantive law should contemporaneously be renewed at the same time that they make every effort to enforce the existing law. as the need in ecoic terms in my judgment and. i think. in the judgment of the most senators is so urgent. we have taken this opportunity which. as i say. seems generally acceptable to go ahead in this way. what i am saying is really  a valid argument against the senators proposition. it is simply an explanation of why we are where we are and why i can see that it is inconsistent. though i am sure in pure logic the senators proposition is absolutely correct.
i certainly would. may i point out to the senator that if they come up with a new concept of antitrust law. naturally. the remedies and the techniques of the enforcement would have to follow that new concept. i could give the senator many instances of that. but i am sure he could think of them himself so that we would understand. of course. that this is advisory to us. there is hing compelled upon us. but i certainly would look with favor upon whatever they recommended. either in the substantive or adjective field.
my answer to that is unequivocally yes. and i tried to cover it in the next subsection. which is headed "representation of varied interests" and reads: the membership of the commission shall be selected in such a manner as to be broadly representative of the various interests. needs. and concerns which may be affected by the antitrust laws.
. i shall vote for this amendment. but  on constitutional grounds. i was raised and educated in the same school in which senator hart has been raised and educated and debated in the chamber tens of hours. with our beloved colleague. sam ervin. who had a very interesting education in constitutional law as he argued these matters. he had the inestimable privilege of serving in the senate until he had a different view as to individual liberties and what the courts would do to safeguard and protect them. so i am  prepared to support this amendment on grounds of constitutionality. but i am going to support this amendment because i believe it is a realistic and practical way to deal with a totally new situation. the way in which it is set up here is simply too scary to the business community and the american people. that is really what it comes down to. it simply instills unnecessary fear. this bill has a hard egh time as it is. while this is a season when the fortunes of american business are in fairly low esteem because of bribery charges and other charges of unconscionable earning of profits. we should  allow the season to misguide us. the fact is that 85 percent of the american people do extremely well under this system. and it would be very unwise to turn the pyramid upside down and to throw the baby out with the bath water. so i do  want to scare the american business system where it is reasonably scared already. if it is unreasonably scared. i will have fear about it and will vote for it in a minute. but if it is reasonably afraid. i think we ought to.err on the side of giving american business a sense of reassurance that we k what we are doing. too. it was my feeling in this whole bill that this was where we slipped over the edge and that the painstaking efforts of 10 years which have gone into this bill had some attenuated sensibilities insofar as the business system is concerned. that we may have failed to perceive a legitimate. a reasonable reason for fear in this matter. we do  want to paralyze american business by fear of endless liability and emous costs. that is why i am against the contingent fee provision. i believe bob griffin was absolutely right. i have myself. as a lawyer. for years before i came to the senate practiced law and gotten fees from courts in exactly such cases as we are talking about.  antitrust particularly. but in the securities frauds of the. great era of the boom in the late twenties and the depression of 1932. they called me a strike suitor. too. and it never fazed me a bit. on the contrary. i lived to see the day when they hired me because i was that good. so i understand what we are doing here. but i also understand egh to k that we should  go this far. it is unwise. and that is the only basis on which i argue for this amendment and the only basis upon which i will vote for it.
 the words of art used with relation to a certain type of damages are reflected by the first section of the amendment which is before us. it appears at page 29 and begins at line 1 of the bill. the words used are as follows: procurement by fraud of patent (other than technical fraud) or the enforcement of a patent procured by fraud (other than technical fraud) in violation of the antitrust laws. my reply is as follows.. and i would like. if it is accurate. to have senator abourezk. senator percy. and. hopefully. senator hruska make any comment they choose to on what i am about to say. this is the statement respecting these particular provisions. the intent of all parties with respect to the legislation is to codify the language of the supreme court of the united states in walker process equipment. a case reported in 86 s. ct. 347. decided in 1965. that case held. and i quote from that case at page 350 of the decision. which reads as follows: walkers counterclaim alleged that food machinery obtained the patent by kingly and willfully misrepresenting the facts to the patent dffice. proof of this assertion would be sufficient to strip food machinery of its exemption from the antitrust laws. i interpolate there that by the word "exemption" we mean the exemption conferred by a patent because a patent is. in a sense. a trust. a mooly.
that is the end of my interpolation. and i continue to read from the decision: by the same token. food machinerys gooa faith would furnish a complete defense. this includes an honest mistake as to the effect of prior installation upon patentabilitysocalled "technical fraud." this explanation of intent is also to be added to by aher sentence from the decision also appearing at page 350 which reads as follows: it must be remembered that we deal only with a special class of patents. i.e.. those procured by intentional fraud. there is a e attached to the decision. a sentence in connection with the first quotation i read. and the e. e 5. reads as follows: this conclusion applies with equal force to an assignee who maintains and enforces the patent with kledge of the patients infirmity. . i ask unanimous consent that the whole decision in walker processing be printed in the record.
i just received the report on the bill which is referred to by the senator from virginia. it is calendar  713. s. 1907. and if we have a minute. i shall read the financial obligation. in the first place. it bears out exactly what senator brooke had said. to wit: we will consider this matter quite independently and there is prejudice one way or the other by the adoption of this resolution. the language of the report is as follows: although an appropriation is authorized by s. 1907. it would  have a foreseeable budgetary impact. since the fund is a standby arrangement. there is paidin capital. should member qualify and be granted a loan it is the expressed intent of the u.s. treasury to finance any u.s. portion of the loan through the sale of securities guaranteed by the u.s. government. only in the case of default on the loan by the member country would the u.s. government become financially liable and incur a direct cost. any conceivable loss would  be likely to become apparent until a fiveyear period had transpired. i simply include this here by way of information on this subject.
. i join today with my colleagues. senators allen. spaxaama. and buckley to introduce an amendment to s. 2872. the federal energy administration extension act. which will establish within the present entitlements program a new category to be kn as refiner constructors. the entitlements program. authorized by the emergency petroleum allocation act. was designed to eliminate the cost disparities created by the twotier price control system for crude oil. two years later. however. the congress discovered that in its operation. the entitlements program had resulted in the aaly of the nations small refiners buying $25.000.000 of entitlements per month. the congress. therefore. created the small refiner bias to alleviate this problem. more recently. the congress approved the pea proposal to increase the small refiner bias somewhat while terminating the exemption of small refiners from any obligation to buy entitlements. once again. the entitlements program needs to be amended to address yet aher problem caused by the twotier pricing system: the inability of a new grassroots refinery to enter the market equitably. our amendment authorizes the pea administrator. for the purpose of fostering the construction of new refineries by small or independent refiners in the united states. to promulgate regulations establishing within the entitlements program. eligibility criteria for a category of persons eligible to receive entitlements to be kn as refiner constructors. as ranking miity member of the small business committee. i have for several years been aware of the wallace & wallace chemical & oil corp.s efforts to build a new major independent grassroots refinery in the united states.
. i rise to deal with the provision for the legal service corporation. the corporation requested $140 million. the senate committee gave it $130 million as contrasted with the houses figure of $110 million. obviously. we are  going to move on so narrow a base as that. but i do express to the manager of the bill and through him to the committee and those who will be the conferees that the corporation is functioning well. of all the services rendered in respect to poverty. this one has proved to be the best morale builder. because it has an amazing impact on the poor because a poor man. also. can have a lawyer. having eliminated some of the bugs in the whole situation through the organization of the corporation. i express the hope that the senate conferees will do their utmost to stand by their figure in the conference.
if i may just complete one further thought. the irs is itself developing real concern about this particular type of plan called esop. and is today seeking to promulgate a set of regulations on this particular subject. i am reading from the wall street journal of this past monday. what they are calling to our attention is the followingthis is how they want to tighten up on esop. because they realize that it is far from an efficient and good idea in terms of plans generally: one. they want to provide that an employer loan or loan guarantee to an esop will be permitted only if transactions were arranged and approved by an independent third party. acting on behalf of the employee plan. second. they want to provide that an esop must be primarily for the benefit of the plan participants and beneficiaries. rather than merely for the benefit of the employer. third. they want to provide that after sptember 30. employees must be assured of a market for such stock for 2 years after they receive it. usually at retirement. fourth. the proposed regulations would prevent employers from insisting on the right to buy back securities from an esop before the securities are offered for sale elsewhere. one of the ways in which this is handled in these particular plans. other regulations seek to prevent a company from selling to an esop stock that is inferior because of reduced dividend rights or limited voting rights. all i am pointing out here is that the service itself has recognized the very serious deficiencies in esop and is proposing a series of regulations to try to make it tighter. i think that is fine. the point is that it picks up what i am arguing. and i think what my colleagues on this side of the issue are arguing. and that is the fact that we are  only discriminating but we are discriminating in favor of a type of plan which is far less efficient and useful for the worker than if left to evenhanded treatment for all types of employee stock ownership plans.
. i shall only take 2 minutes. it looks  as if we will go over and have an opportunity to inspect the amendments on the desk. and there will be an opportunity for the leadership to inspect them. also i thoroughly agree with senator long. that is all i wish to say. i have one other point. however. and that is senator robert c. byrd of west virginia may be interested in the suggestion i made to the leadership. i wanted to be sure that he understood it completely. i hope that senator clark. who is sitting in the managers chair. will report that to him. it would  only mean dealing with amendments which have been voted on before but also dealing with amendments which may come out of the senate bill which are  included in this compromise. what we must understand is that the matters taken in the compromise were agreed upon between people in the house and people in the senate. for example. something that i was deeply sold on was left outa commission to revise -the antitrust lawsin which i joined senator hauska. if i wished to. i could have sought to put that into the compromise at this stage. every member should have the right to do that. so i hope that whatever motion senator byrd makes will take into consideration the fact that anything that is in the senate bill is. even though voted on again. an entirely legitimate proposition for a member to raise here.
. who is elected by the people to appoint the commission. also. there is an amendment suggested by senator kennedy. which will enable us to review the cost and effect of exemptions from the antitrust laws in the regulated sector of the ecoythat is. subject to the regulatory commissionand the cost and effect of state laws that inhibit competition or prohibit anticompetitive practices.
in the first place. "which has a fair market value" i would define to mean over and above indebtedness by way of mortgage. i would  consider fair market value to include the gross value of the property without deducting the amount of mortgage. because a fair market value is a sales value and a sales value is obviously  a value that will include the amount of mortgage. assuming. again. this includes ranches and others which represent very large amounts of moneyi certainly would want to consider it. i shall  say  i flatly oppose it. i would like to consider it. i think the senator makes a very strong point. the reason i did what i did about investments is that the committee did  include household goods. whether it was paintings or antiques or anything like that. the way in which the words "for investment" were placed. if the senator will read it. at the bottom of page 5. lines 24 and 25. it says: held. directly or indirectly. during such calendar year in a trade or business or for investment or the production of income.... therefore. the words. "or for investment." standing alone. indicated that anything held for investment. even a picture. an antique-
i am pleased today to join my colleagues. the senator from wisconsin . who is distinguished chairman of the employment and poverty subcommittee. the senator from vermont . the senator from massachusetts . and the senator from california (senator cranston). in introducing the legal services corporation act amendments of 1977. i believe the bill we introduce today will. if enacted. and i do hope we can consider. it without delay. greatly enhance our ability to make legal services available to the poor of our country. as one of the "fathers" of the legal services corporation concept and the act of 1974. public law 93355. i am pleased that so much progress has been made in insuring that the poor have access to the best possible legal representation. the legal services corporation has made great strides since 1974 in supporting legal assistance to the poor. the basic mandate of the corporation. to wit: to insure that all poor people have available to them the legal services they need has been followed admirably. i commend the president of the corporation. thomas ehrlich. the members of the board. and the legal services projects and staff throughout the united states for their vision and dedication. in reporting the original legal services corporation act in 1973. the employment subcommittee emphasized that "recourse to an adversary system of law and justice for the resolution of public or private disputes should  be denied to individuals who can afford the legal counsel necessary to determine their rights and responsibilities under that system." the best evidence of the progress of the corporation and its grantee projects in following this mandate is the fact that more than 1 million legal matters were handled by legal services offices over .the past year. but even this impressive figure represents only a part of the legal needs of the poor. millions of poor persons. who have a right to food stamps or housing or medical care. do  have access to legal assistance. recent studies estimate that for every person served by legal services programs. there are six other poor persons who have legal problems and do  receive legal assistance. thus. although much has been accomplished. far more needs to be done. greater strides can be made by increasing the annual appropriation levels for this program and by enacting amendments designed to facilitate representation of the poor. in several important ways our bill contemplates insuring that improvements are made in the access of poor people -to legal representation and in the quality of the representation itself. first. our bill would specify that at least three persons appointed to the board of directors of the legal services corporation be eligible clients. this should enhance the sensitivity of the corporation to the needs of the client community. second. the bill gives authority to the legal services corporation to make grants and contracts. if it so wishes. to operate backup centers to assist legal services projects. this is an important provision because legal services projects and staff attorneys often require training and technical assistance in areas of the law. such as. for example. social security law or housing law. where much specialized expertise is necessary in order to represent the poor more capably. third. our bill authorizes the corporation to make- grants or contracts for the purpose of developing model projects to expand or improve the delivery of legal services to those segments of the population with special difficulties of access to legal services or special legal problems. including the elderly. handicapped individuals. and others. this is a particularly important provision because it would enable the legal services corporation to focus attention upon the unique legal problems of special segments of the population. in these and other ways that have been described already by my colleagues and cosponsors. the legal services corporation amendments act of 1977 will do much to support legal assistance to the poor in civil matters. unfortunately. in two important respects the amendments we introduce today do  go far egh in improving the access of the poor to legal services. first. the bill continues the existing restriction which prevents legal services projects from providing legal assistance "with respect to any proceeding or litigation relating to the desegregation of any elementary or secondary school or school system." i do  believe the purposes or mission of the legal services corporation. to wit: providing access to legal services for the poor. is well served by prohibiting representation in desegregation cases. i intend to move in committee an amendment to allow legal services projects to petition the corporation to permit representation of eligible clients in desegregation cases. where representation is  available from other sources. similarly. with respect to representation of clients who seek to obtain therapeutic abortions. i believe the legal services projects should be permitted to apply for permission to represent clients where other legal representation is available. however. i do  believe representation should be provided to compel an individual or institution to perform an abortion when that is contrary to the religious beliefs or moral convictions of that individual or institution. equal access under the.law implies that person who wants to have an abortion should be denied one solely because she is too poor to afford adequate legal advice and counsel. the supreme court has established law and conditions that states may  restrict the right of women to have abortions. i believe that poor persons who decide to seek abortions and are prevented from having them on legal grounds. should be able to obtain representation. if other representation is available. i intend to offer in committee an amendment to secure this right for the poor. - in conclusion. . i am pleased that this bill enjoys such bipartisan support. i understand hearings have been scheduled for next week and that our markup is shortly thereafter. i hope we will move swiftly on the bill and continue the progress that has already been made in providing the poor access to legal assistance. by mr. brooke:
. as the antitrust laws determine so heavily what will happen in the u.s. ecoy. they should  be definitively reviewed. and i introduce the bill for that purpose. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be rrinted in the record.
well. may i just correct a figure. but it does  matter in my answeri do think we should correct it. the commercial banks have loaned to the developing countries about $70 billion. of which the share of the u.s. banks is about $42 billion. but that constitutes pretty much the capital and surplus of those banks.
becauseand may i just say this to the senatorwhat these banks are relying on is the fact that the international financing agencies or the federal reserve. or both. will never let them down. they will make them whole. i say it is one thing to be made whole if the system is organized for the purpose and the bank has the funds and the agreements are made with the commercial banks. and so on. but it is aher thing to be made whole in a rescue party when there is a run on your bank. that is the thing that is worrying me.  that the people are going to line up and run on any one of these major banks. but the erosion of confidence which results from such an unstable structure is deeply worrying to me. coupled with all the other things which i have described. including the revolutionary attitude in many of the develoning countries. this is the first sign. the first little dark cloud which indicates a very serious ecoic crisis in this world. and while one often feels discouraged that one hears you. somehow or aher in this world if you keep at it eeh and the facts hck you un. and thpv eprtainlv doand the senator sees it very clearly. as he has just describedsomeone ultimately does hear you and hopefully may hear you in time. hence the reason for what i said this morning
the deficits have been reduced. they are down from roughly about $40 billion in 1974 in deficits to about $26 billion. they still have $26 billion. and that still has to be financed. with this difference: that whereas there was lendable power in the banks in 1974 and 1975. because the banks were  all loaned up. the way the situation stands today it is very doubtful that the banks can muster all that money without putting themselves at undue risk. that is the big issue. the big issue is  that there has  been sone marginal improvement in the developing countries balance of trade. the big issue is that it is 3 years later. and all that money has been loaned and it is still in there and pretty well frozen. and there must be more put on top of that. and that unless we do the whole thing collapses. this is going to be the hub. that is. the real essence of this situation. that makes it so dangerous. i really am  here this morning to light a prairie firethere is need for thatbut to demonstrate that all the material is there. and any careless person dropping a match can really cause a world conflagration. we had better clean it up. and we are  doing it. that is the essence of it. one of the reasons is this deep chasm existing between the developing and the developed countries. which we had better bridge or we will be in deep trouble.
well. england is also part of this network of banks which are lending money. so. unless they want to keep it in a mattress. they have other place to put it. it is that kind of crazy world we are describing. in which everyone is pretty much in the same box. but still has time to pull himself out. if we act quickly.
(g). the identity. date. and category of value of any transaction. directly or indirectly. in securities or commodities during such calendar year exceeding $1.000. except that (1) the identity of the recipient of any gift involving any transaction within the family. so all of her transactions in securities would have to be stated if he had kledge.
then. further: (h) the identity. date. and category of value of any purchase. sale. or exchange. directly or indirectly. of any interest in real property. except. again. the identity of any charitable gift. the number of acres. the street address. and so on. so it would apply to a personal residence. (1) the identity of and a description of the nature of any interest in an option. mineral lease. copyright. or patent right held during such calendar year. that is the limit of the disclosure which needs to be made. the question i would like to ask the senator is this: i can understand where transactions in securities or gifts which the wife might receive. and transactions in real property. might conceivably. if the parties were  separated. give some clue to some impropriety of activity. but i must say that i am a bit confounded by the earned income. also. i can even understand the fact that she is employed by somebody. i must say i am deeply concerned about the flat reporting proposition of the exact amount of her income so it is very clear that xs wife is wealthy. without any relationship whatever to whether these were illgotten gains or whether the husband in any way was responsible in some way which would trace any impropriety to him. that worries me. may i hear from the manager his view as to that proposition. how he feels it might be justified.
. this is the amendment as suggested to us by the administration. the managers of the bill are under absolutely obligation to take it at all. i do  hold them or anyone else to agree to it. but i propose it because it did represent what the administration is willing to accept as a definition of what will have to be defined anyhow under this particular provision in the bill which reads absolutely but as a matter of law would  be absolute. in other words. the provision says at page 105. lines 7 to 10: for the purposes of subsection (a) (3) and subsections (e) through (i) of section 302. a reporting individual shall also report the interests of the spouse or dependents of that individual. the next section deals with a matter of spouses living separate and apart. but it strikes me that if a spouse is to report on the interest. that is. if a husband is to report on the interest of his wife. which means her income. or whether investment income. or securities trading income. or real property trading income. then he has to k about it. i do  see any ethics committee or anyone else who would have him liable if he did  k about it. the definition of the administration. which i offer as an amendment exactly as they submitted it to us. calls for kledge. it calls for every reasonable opportunity to obtain the required kledge which again is only reasonable. as we said a minute ago. you can chain your wife to a bedstead or threaten her with whatever you threaten her with if she does  tell you. and that he or she should derive or expect to derive any benefit. and this does  come out of anything which the husband did or did  own on a previous occasion. it seems to me the senate has decided. and i think it is very right that it should. having decided 93 to 1 on the senate code of ethics. that it wanted the provision which we have just voted down. i think it was right to submit that to the senate after such a topheavy vote. i think with such persuasive reasons in the modern independence of women to support it. i believe that the senate at least should adopt a reasonable implementation of what on the face of it is a fiat and unerasonable provision. if you just read it literally. which was offered to us by the administration. so i feel it my duty to offer this amendment. again i repeat the managers can oppose it violently and say. "well. you had one vote. you are  entitled to aher. we are going to beat you on it." that is their privilege. but i feel it my duty to offer it to the senate. and i hope the senate will vote it up.
. i would like to call attention to a speech made by our colleague. senator mathias of maryland. at the annual meeting of the bar association of the district of columbia. this is an excellent speech. and it deserves recognition for its timeliness. senator mathias has cosponsored a bill which i introduced to establish a commission for the purpose of reviewing our antitrust laws. as the senator has pointed out. this is an area of the law which desperately needs review. and i commend him for his insightful remarks. i ask unanimous consent that the text of his remarks be printed in the record.
i need 1 minute. i wish to say to the senator that what interested me about his amendment is that. in my own experience of practicing as a lawyer for years. forum shopping or jurisdiction shopping or even judge shopping is  unkn to practicing lawyers in the high corporate astral regions. we do want. if we can get it. to have a coordinated approach to the law. it seemed to me. therefore. that the opportunity to centralize in washington the national legal decision. in view of the fact that appeals go to the same courtto wit. the supreme courtas a matter of convenience and as a matter of kledge and experience with the law. is very valuable. i have a whole host of cases which have come to my attention. showing that a district judge of a particular community can issue and does issue an injunction tying up a national policy. that is sometimes for me. for things i believe in. and sometimes against me. but. on the whole. it is  a desirable way to run a railroad. or to run a legal system. it seems to me that the kennedy amendment gave the necessary balanceto wit. resort to local fora for individuals or corporations having regional or local problems. resort to the national forum where a national issue is involved and could be judicially dealt with. for that reason. i joined senator kennedy in the amendment and i hope very much that the senate will approve it.
i wish to e in reference to the national advisory council that it has made a significant contribution to our consideration of the enlightened strategies for dealing with the poverty problem since 1967. i am somewhat at a loss to understand. therefore. the reason why the administration has proposed to abolish the council 60 days after it files its 1978 annual report. i want to remain openminded on this question but. when one realizes that among what must be at least a thousand advisory councils in this town. only this one is authorized by congress to make recommendations concerning 26 million poor people. i would tend to favor its continuance. i might add at this point that just because the administration bill we are introducing does  contain amendments to title vii does  mean there are  some things that should be included. for example. i think our subcommittee ought to consider authorizing the initiation of a study to examine the feasibility of expanding the cdc prototype on a far wider scale. to the best of my kledge one has ever studied the national absorptive capacity for cdcs and i. for one. would like to k whether 40 or 60 or 100 cdcs are about the right number. aher item which causes me some concern is the administrations proposal to end the traditional practice of placing cdc funds in demand deposit accounts that can be drawn down by check. the bill would use the "line of credit" approach that is used for most other federal government programs. there are a number of reasons why i do  agree that the demand deposit approach ought to be discontinued. first. the success of a community development corporation depends upon the way it is perceived by the business community. which includes the banking community. when the cdc has funds cxxii1842part 23 in community banks. in its own name. it can be viewed as a credible business venture. second. like other business organizations. the cdc obtains important leverage by maintaining deposit accounts. its credit worthiness is enhanced immeasurably by its ability to maintain a sort of "compensating demand deposit account." this redounds to the ultimate benefit of the taxpayers and the poor themselves. because of preferential loan rates and the access the cdc is given to the usual paly of banking services. we have often spoken in this body of the need to deal with "redlining" and to put banks back into disadvantaged areas. well. this is one way the banks can obtain credibility with the poor and vice versa. and i think we should continue the deposit approach for this reason. finally. . let us  waver in our determination to improve the lives of the disadvantaged of our country. let us  harden our hearts to the pleas of the less fortunate. let us  rest satisfied until the poor of our nation enjoy the dignity that is their right as gods people. (exhibrr 1)
we have a small business exemption. which is $250.000 in volume. and most small restaurants do  have that volume. i think some effort is going to be made to increase that figure. in fact. i am informed that the figure  sought by amendment is going to be $500.000. i am  sure the senator from new jersey and i are willing to go quite that far. but certainly a small restaurant will  be affected.
i will certainly consider the senators effort to strike. frankly. i do  k why the senator complicated the effort to strike with this insertion. the striking has hing to do with this insertion whatever. i would strongly suggest that the two matters be separated. i think they are separable anyhow. but what i wish to ask the senator is this about this particular amendment. this is generic. it could apply and should apply. if that is the way we are going to go. to every agency of government. there is reason why we have to pick the legal services corporation. because we only do something like this in response to some kind of a complaint. though we have  had. directly and currently with the consideration of this legislation. oversight hearings on the legal services corporation. all of us are in the complaint receiving business. and i agree with senator nelson. i have heard absolutely hing that makes it appropriate to pick out the legal services corporation and impose this requirement respecting them as compared with every other agency of government. it seems to me to be completely discriminatory. therefore. i oppose it because i see reason for setting this agency up as an object of some kind of mandate which we impose on other agency. this is very rarely a problem anyhow. i mean. government agencies generally do  withhold from members of congress requests for information. i see reason for picking out the legal services corporation. especially in view of their assertion that they are very responsive. if we incorporate this i the statute. there is reason why wi should  incorporate it for every agen. cy of government.
but as to the corporation itself. what i said and what i have in mind is that the corporation will say that it will considerwe will say the corporation will consider any appeal to it on the question of eligibilty.
. without in any way repudiating this letter or the good faith which is involved. i believe that we should depend upon the terms of the letter itself. which promised hing but good faith efforts by the secretary of state. subject to the board of directors of a government corporation which has a board. ratified and confirmed by the senate. the composition of the board of opic does have some government members. all it would do would be to give some indication that we are going to turn down this panama canal treaty. with all respect. i e that its most violent opponent would  want us. at this very early stage in the whole. great national issue. to take this action in such a peripheral way. so i hope very much that the senate will take appropriate action to reject this amendment.
i thank the senator. may i say that we in the foreign relations committee. in considering the problems of the world this morning. were discussing the socalled witteveen facility. the international monetary fund. and the indebtedness to that fund by the less developed countries.  consisting of many billions of dollars. and the very serious problems consisting of rollover and the general sustaining capital of the member banks. there was discussed the problem of the coordination between the u.s banking system and the international monetary fund. which also. in various ways. contributes to the financial capability of these less developed countries. all of this is complicated. of course. by a highly unecoic price support. i hope the senator will  mind if i lay that issue before him so that when he is thinking about it. working on comprehensive bank reform legislation. he may have in mind that. since the last bill. this horizon has emously expanded. in our banking system. we are very deeply involved in these loans abroad. let alone the float of some $90 billion. these fantastic figures in eurodollars. i hope these issues may be taken into consideration because they directly affect the exchange value of the dollar. which is today in very grave trouble in terms of a falling dollar. these issues also gravely affect the profit position of the u.s. banks and their policymaking position in terms of the less developed countries and in terms of their big depositors. who are very heavily arab oil companies. this totally new complexion has come in the last couple of years. this. too. should be cranked into it. it makes it of much broader significance even than our own banking reform. i hope these conations will be very much in the forefront of our domestic activities. such as senator mcintyre. senator tower. and senator proxmire have referred to. and that they are being considered very carefully by the foreign relations committee and the subcommittee of which senator church is the chairman and i am the ranking member.
. these are just a few other provisions in the conference report i wish to address. with respect to the support centers. which were a bone of contention on this floor and a part of the compromise reached between the committee and a number of senators. the senate bill language remains intact. we persuaded house conferees to recede on this matter because we felt it our duty to defend the senate bill and. thus. prohibit the corporation from contracting out for general research purposes where the research does  involve representation of eligible clients. there was concern. which by the way i personally did  share. that the backup centers could become seedbeds of social agitation unless limitations were placed on such activities. the committee accepted the amendment offered by the senator from utah
. i ask unanimous consent that the complete table of figures furnished by the nlrb be printed at the conclusion of my remarks. during the over20yearperiod since the board has established these jurisdictional rules. the only concern of the congress was that as many employers as possible be subject to the acts coverage. in the landrumgriffm amendments of 1959. the congress amended section 14 (c) (1) expressly to forbid the board from raising the existing dollar amount standards. the fear expressed by business representatives at that time was that they might lose the important protections offered by the act if the board were to restrict its exercise of jurisdiction further. indeed. until this year we in congress have  heard complaints from the small business community that they were  exempt by the actrather. the complaints have been that they were  included. that small employers up to  have wanted to be covered is  at all surprising. before the wagner act was enacted. efforts to organize workers were often characterized by lengthy strikes and other forms of industrial strife.
the difficulty with the point which i have just heard made is that it is  the workers who are complaining. the people complaining are the entrepreneurs. when you speak of all the small business community. you are  talking about workers. you are talking about owners. we say that under the statute if you let us pass this amendment. we are ready to vote. we will take out 75 percent of the people complaining and the people who feel this is unjust. that it is rough on them. maybe if they are  going to be organized . they may be organized later. so it seems to me that this makes a very measurable step forward. it very materially confines the area of those who have any complaint. you do  hear the workers complaining that they do  want this bill or that it is invidious to them. they will be out of it. too. but you do  hear them complaining. the people complaining are the employers. the entrepreneurs. so it seems to me we make a very measurable contribution by taking out 80 or 78 percent of the complainers. i just wanted to make that very clear.
. i think that is one of the key points here. a great deal of sentiment has been stirred up on the theory that we are changing the basic law. that we are changing substantive rights and that the people are going to be unionized who would  have been unionized before. and especially the small business community has been simply overwhelmed with propaganda on that score and much of it has been false propaganda. and i feel that this kind of evidence from objective sources disqualifies that kind of rumor and implication. as we go along it is going to be extremely important to make the small business community feel. first. that most of it is  even involved. and second. there is absolutely substantive changewhich isbeing made. in the bill respecting trade unionization.
. we have done our utmost to make this bill lean and hard and accurate and directed solely toward those areas in which there has been abuse. just let me tick those off very quickly. we have  dealt with the equal access argument so that working area or working time is involved. so there is quid pro quo for the socalled captive audience. that it. when workers are addressed by their employers on time for which they are being paid. we have dealt with the election schedule so that ody is caught by surprise.  less than 35 days must elapse before there is an election after ice that organization is taking place. we have dealt with small business so that even it is completely excluded from access if you have 10 workers or less. in addition to the fact that equal access is very considerably trimmed down.
i realize this is the morning hour. and the senator will have ample time for his remarks. first. i join the majority leader in testifying to the fidelity of the senators convictions respecting this bill. and my clear understanding of his saying what he did. it represents diminution of the degree of his support. we all understand and we k him very well. he is  a senator given to insincere positions. i would like to say this. however: it is a fact that the support for cloture has grown. it is always said around hereand the senator has been around here a long time. just as i havethat the majority eventually can always work its will. well. 58 senators is  a bad majority. especially when you are flying in the face of as great a lobbying campaign as i have seen around here in 30 years. somehow or other. small business has been put into an undeserved panic. completely unwarranted by this bill even if it were exactly as we reported it outand it has been considerably dilutedso i beg the senator to consider that circumstance. but i completely agree with the points he is making. and i speak for the portion of the miity which supports the bill. and that is half the miity of the committee. which i assure the senator will be conscious of his very proper injunction.
. i support the ination of  of the committee. senator weicker. the ranking miity member. and all the committe members in their carrying out of this oversight responsibility. i recognize that some concerns exist about mr. stewart. i commend senator weicker for his forthright presentation. he is performing a service for all of us. by assuring full disclosure and debate. but i do  share that viewpoint. first. mr. stewart. for the greater portion of his adult working life. has been associated with small business and related fields. as a direct participant and practioner. government administrator. and as a leader within the organized small business community and during these years. mr. stewart has maintained an unswerving dedication to the needs and development of small business. a characteristic that is fundamental to carrying out successfully the duties of this position. second. the position clearly requires the capability of the incumbent to relate effectively within the executive branch. as well as with the congress. mr. stewarts ination  only reflects official administration review and approval. but also has received support from mr. a. ver weaver. administrator of the small business administration. additionally. after a thorough review. our own senate committee reported a favorable recommendation of mr. stewarts ination by a vote of 8 yeas. and 1 nay. finally. the position requires the incumbent to have the confidence and support of the small business community. mr. stewarts ination has received strong support from the small business community throughout the country. this includes: specific supportive commentaries from individual small businessmen and women. local small business groups. as well as state and national associations. additionally. i have received numerous statements of support for mr. stewarts ination from the small business community within my own state of new york. in which mr. stewart resides. the office is a challenging one that will require full cooperation within the executive branch. and full support within the congress. i believe mr. stewarts ination to the position of chief counsel for advocacy warrants senate approval. and i shall vote for such approval.
. one final comment. section 714 of the bill permits mortgage lenders that are approved for participation in any of the national housing acts insurance programs to sell loans to the federal home loan mortgage corporation-"freddie mac." the committee report at pages 52 and 53 in referring to these mortgage lenders substitutes the term mortgage bankers. i have been assured by the distinguished chairman of the committee. mr. proxmire. that the language of the bill does  and was  intended to restrict the section to mortgage bankers but to include all approved mortgage lenders. for example. we have in new york city a special mortgage lending corporationthe communist preservation corporation. cpc. as it is called. has been making excellent progress in stemming the tide or urban decay in two new york city neighborhoods. crown heights and washington heights. cpc was established in 1974 by the 11 commercial bank members of the new york clearing house and 28 new york city savings banks. its purpose is to provide mortgage financing for the rehabilitation of residential buildings within new yorks older neighborhoods. this year. cpcs 39 sponsoring banks have greatly expanded its scopeincreasing its financing capabilities to in excess of $100 million. a priority item on cpcs agenda is to be able to sell mortgages on rehabilitated buildings which it originates to secondary market institutions such as freddie mac. in this manner. a broad range of financial resources. both local and national. could be directed toward the revitalization of new york city. i am pleased that cpc. as an approved fha mortgagee. as well as other approved mortgage lenders. will be fully authorized to sell mortgages which they originate directly to fhlmc pursuant to the provisions of this billp@
for elevator units. it is about $6.000 per unit for a onebedroom apartment. and more for larger units. the figures. as i say. we tried to work out so they would be technically satisfactory. my amendment would set 221(d) (3) limits at 111 percent of 221(d) (4) to equalize the difference between the 90percent mortgages and the 100percent mortgages. the present law contains an aaly. to wit: section 221(d) (3) sets lower mortgage limits for 100percent mortgages for profits than 221(d) (4) with 90percent mortgages for limited dividend corporations. since profit sponsors face the same building costs as profitoriented sponsors. the limits should be comparable. my amendment would also raise the mortgage limits on fha insured elevator buildings. in 1969 and 1976 multifamily mortgage limits for fha programs were increased by percentages. because the absolute amounts were lower for elevator buildings than for elevator buildings. the increases were much lower. these percentage increases coupled with increased costs generally have resulted in limits that make it almost impossible ecoically to build or do substantial rehabilitation of elevator structures in new york. for example. one group i k of in new york city is planning to build a fourstory structure with an elevator. because the elevator limits are so low. assuming a 200unit structure. half twobedroom and half threebedroom. the maximum mortgage for section 220 is $1.800.000 less for a elevator building than for an elevator building. the cost of an elevator in a fourstory building is only $50.000. the other construction costs are virtually the same. for the savings in elevator costs are offset by extra space devoted to foundations in lowrise buildings. hud allows one elevator for every 84 apartments. or a cost of approximately $600 per apartment. it is important that these limits be raised at this time. because hud in new york is advocating only lowrise buildings for multifamily housing. if these limits are  raised. hud will be supporting facilities that are  feasible.
the colloquy is as follows. the questioner asked: the american commercial banks are the main brazilian source of external credit. it seems to some people in washington that sooner or later a congressman may try to establish a link between the commercial banking loans and the human rights policy. id like to k your opinion about this subject. the president answered: brazil is a major trading partner of the united states in commercial goods and also in loans and. i might say. timely repayments. the debt of brazil is very manageable. the loans of the american banks to brazil are sound. additional loans are being pursued by the american banks as an excellent advantage for their future investments in brazil. based on the strength of your country. it would be inconceivable to me that any act of congress would try to restrict the lending of money by american private banks to brazil under any circumstances. this would violate the principles of our own free enterprise system. and if such an act was passed by congress. i would  approve it. . that does  bind us yes or  but i think it should weigh in the consideration of the opponents as to any suggestion about restricting any loans.
the declaration was a declaration of the united nations. what i meant was we are  a signatory. for example. the senators amendment contained the following words: freedom to obtain private property and operate in the market freely. i think there would be grave challenge as to whether everybody could operate in the market freely in our country. considering our regulatory laws. the senator spoke of miity rights and the right to preserve traditional values and culture. there are all sorts of miity rights. traditional values and culture practices which may very well be inconsistent with individual human rights. my point is  to be critical. but simply to say this to the senator: we are going to contend with a house amendment which was incorporated in the bill and which was tabled hereto wit. the abourezk amendment. we are going to deal with the amendment of senator church which followed the pattern that we have in the foreign assistance bill. personally. and strictly speaking for myself. i shall do my utmost in the resolution of that problem to be creative. to consult with the senator from idaho. and to hope to work out some specificity which will be consonant with the operation of this particular facility and. at the same time. do all i can to advance the proposition made to us by the senator from idaho.
