. as a member of the senate permanent subcommittee on investigations. i feel it is my duty to comment. both on the executive session hearings held by the subcommittee on april 25. and on the comments of other members of the subcommittee relative to the proposed poor peoples march on washington. on wednesday. the chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from arkansas. and the ranking republican member of the subcommittee. the senator from south dakota voiced their concern that the proposed march could lead to violence and serious civil disorder. certainly. the senators have every right to counsel caution. and indeed. i would agree that there is always a potential for violence in such a demonstration which must be recognized by a prudent federal government. i believe it is unfortunate. however. to await this event with an apprehension which in some quarters borders on hysteria. surely. let us give thoughtful consideration to the fears which are rationalfears. for example. that extremists committed to violence for its own sake will make an effort to take over the marchand let us take steps to see that this does  happen. i stand with what i feel is the unanimous opinion in the congress that we will brook violence. anarchy and immobilization of the federal or district governments or of the community. but let us remember that the leaders of this march are committed to violence and let us do all we can to reinforce their positions as leaders and help them channel this great outpouring of the poor into creative and constructive petition for redress of grievances. we would be unrealistic if we did  recognize the posibility of disorder during the march. but what many of the most fearful critics of the march seem to forget is that the city and the federal government also see what is evident to us. first. there are appropriate statutes on the books to arrest any participant who incites or participates in violence or conspires to do so. specifically. i call attention to title i of the recently enacted civil rights act of 1968 which makes it a federal crime to travel in interstate commerce with the intent to incite or participate in a riot. and title x of that act which penalizes the manufacture. use or instruction for use of firearms or explosive devices in a civil disorder. the text of these sections are submitted as an appendix to these remarks. second. testimony at the closed hearing by general yarborough of u.s. army intelligence. by attorney general ramsey clark and by public safety director patrick murphy indicate clearly that the police. the fbi. and the department of defense are coordinating information on the participants of the march and are making plans to protect the city from any attempt to turn the march into a violent demonstration. in fact. when the chairman asked general yarborough if he had heard certain threats of violence made in connection with the march. the generals reply was: the implication to me is that the people who made these statements would like to carry these things out. but i see hard organizational structure at this point. or any indications of actual numbers ... or timespace factors that would permit these things to happen to the degree that those statements would indicate. when the chairman cited specific instances of such threats he was asked at least four times during the course of the hearing by attorney general clark to make his information available to the fbi. i believe it is only prudent for any of us who have such informationwhether or  it is rumor or factto ify the proper authorities. third. government witnesses appearing before the subcommittee made it quite clear that they intend to preserve law and order and that they have made plans to do so. to quote the attorney general. for example: there will be blocking of the bridges and there will be obstruction of government buildings .... if people sit on the bridges. they will be removed. if people endeavor to unlawfully enter federal buildings they will be prevented from entering federal buildings. we would be foolish. indeed. if we did  make such preparations and prepare ourselves for any contingency. but. i am sure also that reverend abernathy and the organizers of the march will be equally grateful if law and order are maintained.  that we have outlined the steps to be taken in case there is violence. let us consider what we can be doing  to see that violence does  occur. the march. after all. has been conceived and executed by men dedicated to violence. we are under an obligation. i believe. to reinforce their position of violence. to assist them in preserving order. and to listen to their grievances and act with justice. first. we can turn our attention to legislation entitled to priority such as the measure referred to by reverend abernathy in his testimony before the poverty subcommittee. these are. the housing bill. the manpower employment bills. and federal welfare reform. congress should deal with the senatepassed supplementary appropriations for summer employment of youth. for added headstart and for remedying malnutrition. these measures could be considered and passed within weeks out of fear. but because they are just and necessaryand such an expression of good faith on the part of the congress would give great support to leaders of violence. second. i believe our best course of action is to support and encourage in any way that we can the efforts of the leaders of the poor peoples campaign to control their own people. there is some precedent to indicate that discipline is better imposed from within a campaign such as this. or from within a ghetto community. rather than from the outside community. in 1963. in the stirring march on washington conducted by the civil rights leadership. effective use was made of marshals employed by the movement itself. in 1966. when sargent shriver opened the watts festival. held on the first anniversary of the riots which wracked that district. the community used its own youth to keep order and to prevent fresh outbreaksand they succeeded in that job. in fact. when the second watts festival was held in 1967 and the community patrol idea was again used. these young people actually prevented stokely carmichael from driving his car. uninvited. into the automobile procession. there are steps that the federal government can take to help the marchers police themselves along the lines of these precedents. for example. the oeo and the labor department could encourage antipoverty organizations and youth engaged in youth programs to engage in this kind of security activity in cooperation with the leaders of the march. government agencies could review their contracts with such groups to insert added flexibility. where needed. to allow the grantees to take on such assignments. some funding might also be made available to appropriate communitybased groups to mount such security programs. i am pleased to say that this general approach of using community people to maintain law and order has been endorsed by over 80 republicans in the house and senate in the form of a provision of the national manpower act of 1968. introduced on march 28 of this year. in that bill. particular encouragement is given to the secretary of labor to fund public service employment programs in the field of public safety. including programs which would create jobs for ghetto residents in such occupations as community escort and patrol and police support activities. third. we in congress certainly have the obligation to exercise legislative oversight respecting the executive branch and. if appropriate. to express our concern about the preparations for the march. but we should . by hasty laws enacted on the spur of the moment. deprive the federal departments that are trying to deal with the march the flexibility and adaptability to do so.  should we give ultimatums to americans who are poor and who are seeking to protest to the congress if they do so in a lawful manner. anymore than we. ourselves. would propose to legislate under ultimatums. the question of which area of parkland should be used for construction of temporary dwellings. for example. is best decided by the department of the interior which is in touch with the leaders of the march. it would be unfortunate. in my judgment. if congress assumes this prerogative because it confuses flexibility with incompetence. especially as there is proof that the federal government departments and the district government are moving actively in the situation. in august of 1963 a historic and most peaceful civil rights march occurred in washington. it was preceded by many of the same warnings of disaster. some panic on the part of private citizens who rushed to arm themselves. and even a few pleas to suspend the bill of rights and prevent the petition from taking place. the dignity and solemnity of that demonstration was an example of american government at its best. it impressed the congress. the nation and it inspired the world. far from necessitating the suspension of the first amendment. it serves today as a classic example of a free people petitioning for the redress of grievances. many of us participated in that marchi did. our job is to do our best to see that the spirit of 1963 will pervade this city in the coming weeks. that the demonstration will be of such a character that all the participants will sayas i do of 1963-"i am proud that i was there." and i hope and pray that the objectives of the 1968 marchecoic dignity for all americanswill be achieved with the overwhelming support which the 1963 civil rights march generated for the landmark civil rights act of 1964.
