. the senator from alabama did inform me that he would raise this question as. obviously. it is his intention to raise it frequently. which is his privilege. but i wislh to inform the senator from alabama that having decided he wanted it on the calendar and having decided he would  send it to committee. that means something. it is  an absolutely nebulous proposition. it means it will  have that prior consideration by a highly informed committee which measures usually receive. for that reason. and for many others. but certainly for that reason. i might tell the senator that it took us days hours. but daysin the conference on the higher education bill to come out with what we did. that was a conference with the house and senate. so i can anticipate a short debate. in all honesty and fairness. i can advise the leadership that there will be anything like a short debate on this matter. or that this bill can be disposed of in some brief period of time. as the senator from alabama says. on a saturday. i can do that at all. the distinguished senator from west virginia has been very diligent. about this matter. as has the distinguished senator from michigan . they are both very much interested in it. they approached me. and i said i would get a meeting together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who are interested in the bill to discuss it with them. i tried to get such a meeting together and found that they did  feel there was even any point to meeting as yet until the calendar was clear of the two measuresthat is. revenue sharing and the agreement respecting nuclear weapons. so. i could  even make that step. however. they understood and i understand that we will confer about it. it is our duty to do so. and we will. we will give our views to the leadership on both sides. however. i certainly can allow any impression to prevail. because it is quite erroneous. that this matter can be disposed of in a short period of time or that we can take it up and easily iron it out.  am i in a position to agree to any unanimousconsent request. and as i have said. the decision of the senator from alabama  to refer the measure to the committee is a decision that it will have to be done on the floor and  in committee. this lengthens the time. experience shows that that requires a longer period of time. but that is the senators decision. he has made up his mind. i do  quarrel with it. as was ed. and as i say. i acted in a matter similar to this 15 years ago. although for a different reason. the different reason being that the committee situation at that time did  work as it should have. i do  think that is so . i think that the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking member. would give this matter prompt and thorough consideration. however. again i thought i should tell the leadership what the result of the conference was. and i  report.
