ial powers and the trade adjustment assistance to help those individuals and firms genuinely hurt by imports. among other matters. i emphasize that certain american industries have legitimate grievances in the trade area. certain american industries are being hurt by a sudden impact of imports. and it is the duty of this administration and the congress to assist such industries. however. given todays general ecoic conditions. there are many other american firms that are being injured  by the sudden impact of imports but by the sudden impact of restrictive fiscal and monetary policies. by rampant inflation in wages. prices. by record interest rates and by a stagnation in productivity and in the vaunted american competitive spirit. for this. foreign nations are  to blame. this irrationality. this propensity to look for the worst in ones neighbors yard because ones own yard is undergoing temporary difficulties. this move into quasiisolationism in an increasingly interdependent world. could result in bringing down the ecoic system that has served us so well over the past 25 years. i would  like to outline four areas of specific concern: 1. an illadvised administration decision to support quota legislation at the behest of the textile industry. followed by tentative house ways and means committee decisions on the trade bill. are threatening to reverse the liberal trade policies which this nation has followed for approximately 40 years. the result is that the world has moved a step closer to a devastating world trade war. all of this triggered by japans past persistence in ostrichlike. headinthesand foreign ecoic policies. 2. an historic opportunity to redirect and revitalize u.s. foreign aid. 3. the urgent need for a review of u.s. private investment abroad. the magnitude of which has stirred resentment but little understanding at home and overseas. this legislation has led to the growing support of punitive. inwardlooking legislation. both in the united states and the european common market. this. combined with the retention of outmoded antitrust laws by the united states. results in a policy combination which may be very harmful to  only u.s. business. but our international balance of payments position as well. 4. international monetary policy stands at the crossroads. and the present calm should be a spur to action designed to prevent future and recurring parity crises and balance of payments disequilibriums that could again threaten the smooth functioning of the international monetary system. (the following are excerpts of the remainder of senator javits testimony.)
