. as chairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. i appreciate the support of senator hatch. chairman of the full committee on labor and human resources. regarding the amendment to public law 98527. the development disabilities act which was added to 5. 1147. the orphan drug act. i am offering a substitute amendment to public law 98527 which has been agreed to by  of the house subcommittee on health and the environment. this amendment will allow states which utilized the waiver provision authorized by the state grant program of the developmental disabilities assistance and bill of rights act as of october 18. 1984. to continue to utilize that waiver provision when certain conditions are met. first. the states must have approval from the secretary. second. states may only choose the same waivered services which they had chosen as of october 18. 1984. third. only states which had chosen services which are  currently priority service areas. or funded under parts c. d. or e of public law 98527 are eligible for a waiver. the four states which meet these conditions are arizona. california. missouri. and montana. if those states choose to. they may apply to the secretary to continue to provide waivered service which they were providing on october 18. 1984. the final provision of this amendment terminates the secretarys authority to grant waivers on september 30. 1987. this amendment represents a compromise between the house and senate position. it will allow states which have formerly utilized the waiver provision to provide services which are  authorized as priority services or under parts c. d. or e of the act to continue those services for a limited period of time.
i have the floor myself . and i should like to say a word on this subject. because the senator has given us a real opening for doing so. what is being put out to the country by the opponents of civil rightsand they are relatively a miityis clear. the two measures offered by the senator from illis could be passed in a half day. they have been debated. they have been considered. they have been before the senate for months. there is very little question about them. what is being put out to the country is that people like myself and others who have deep convictions upon this subject are delaying or digging a grave for medical care for the aged. for minimum wage. for housing. for aid to education. on which. i say advisedly. over the years my voting record is better than that of any dugin opponent of civil rights. why. the answer is that a miity we who are for civil rights--by talk can kill these other measures. the country must understand it.  because the majority does  want civil rights measures. but that the majority is to be denied the opportunity to consider civil rights in a very limited way before. but equallywith these other measures that affect the lives of all our people. we talk about the millions involved. it is a fact that civil rights  only affects the lives of many millions of americans. but it affects the domestic tranquillity of our country. and when we observe what is happening in africa. we k it affects the peace of the whole world. let us be clear. a small dugin miity wein this chamber reserves unto itself the right to kill every one of the measures listed if we dare to bring up the measure on civil rights. which they oppose. we can bring up this subject at any time. the senate on one occasion gave a committee only 5 days in which to bring in a report. we do  want 3 weeks. i was prepared to annce this morning that we should  press civil rights at this particular time. in view of our having had our vote earlier in the week if it chose. and if the majority would  assert its right of imposing cloture. which is within the power of this body if it wishes to assert it. i think for this week the situation is clear to the country. i do  think we have to prove it again this week. therefore i state to the senate that it is  my purpose to ask for a report from the committee at this time. but we reserve all our rights to include it in a discharge petition. in an amendment to a bill. or in any way we think we might press the civil rights issue. i think the senator from georgia has given us an excellent opportunity to see that the new technique is  the filibuster for the moment. it is only to use the shield of these other measures which the country wants. let us see how long the minimum wage bill is debated. let us see how many votes we get. let us see what passes in the senate in the next week or so. and the country will get a pretty good idea about who is on what side of the issues which are being used  as an excuse for  dealing with civil rights.
