. this resolution relates to a very serious situation for what occurred in alabama. and what has occurred this morning in mississippi. reflect the existence of a situation which has existed all the time. withstanding the laws and the constitution of the united states. the only difference between the situation the day before yesderday and the situation yesterday and today is that we  see that it exists. instead of its just existing while we. as a nation. averted our gaze from it. the averting of our gaze from it is. in my opinion. an indication of a very serious national deficiency. and will affect most seriously and adversely our standing in the country and in the world. when some persons in alabama took violence into their own hands. in order to prevent other americans from enjoying their constitutional rights. there was displayed the hard core of the problem. which is the rule of law. and hing less. the rule of law must be asserted. it is high time that those who have been engaged in violence and mob action in the south. and their friends and those who refrain from taking action or refuse to take actioneven those in the highest places. up to the gover of a stateunderstand that the doctrine of nullification. which is all that such persons are preaching and acting on. 100 years after the civil war ended. can be tolerated. under either state law or state authorities. the words "with all deliberate speed"to use the words used by the supreme court in the desegregation casesapply in this instance. too. as regards the enjoyment of all the rights guaranteed by the constitution. this is light matter. because  only does it represent a direct violation of law by mobs. but it could represent a direct violation of law by the highest authorities of the individual states concerned. let us remember that the courts have held that a gover can be enjoined from taking any act which would lead to violation of the civil rights guaranteed in our country. on that subject i cite specifically title x. united states code. section 333. entitled "interference with state and federal law." i should like to read it into the record. for after citing this. we need other argument:
