 kennedy called general taylor from retirement to become chalrman of the joint chiefs of staff.  the nuclear doctrine which caused his retirement has been downgraded to the point where our tactical nuclear weapons in europe serve only the purposes of deterrence of russian use of similar weapons. and of secondstrike retaliation following russian use. our policy in that great arena of confrontation is  to maintain a "capability to participate with our allies in a largescale war in europe. both with and without nuclear weapons." the emphasis here is on the "with." secretary mcnamara has vigorously pursued the policy by bolstering our conventional forces to the point where they can stop a soviet thrust without resorting to the use of nuclear weapons. . in his words. "in central europe. nato has more men. and more combat troops. on the ground than does the (communist) bloc. it has more men on the ground in west germany than the bloc does in east germany. it has more and better tactical aircraft. and these planes on the average can carry twice the payload twice as far as the soviet counterparts." (ecoic club. . 18. 1963.) a third and very different area of military planning today is that related to antiguerrilla operations. the example that springs to mind. of course. is vietnam. as the decade of the fifties drew to a close. most observers agreed that a major soviet push across europe was becoming more and more unlikely. instead. the soviets began to place increased emphasis on guerrilla operations. undoubtedly reflecting the successful tactics of mao tsetung in china and ho chi minh in indochina. the communist revolution in cuba. as well as the communist war of liberation in algeria. provided valuable new lessons. out of these communist triumphs the west has learned a few lessons too. we recognize that anticommunist successes against guerrillas in greece. malaya. and the philippines were immeasurably expedited by one key factor--each of those areas had a sealed border that restricted the guerrillas freedom of motion. in greece. it was the yugoslav border. closed at the time of the titostalin split. in malaya. it was the narrow neck of the malay peninsula. in the philippines it was the sea. patrolled by the u.s. navy. in the last 3 years the defense department has more than doubled the number of special forces groupsgroups especially trained for counterinsurgency operationsand their overall personnel strength quadrupled. we have yet to record a clear success in antiguerrilla operations against a foe who has free rein to move about the territory and receive supplies unmolested across national boundaries. vietnam in particular is a difficult and complex question of the first magnitude. i k everyone here today joins me in my fervent hope that a way may be found by which the people of south vietnam can preserve their liberty and independence against the fullscale communist attempt to incorporate that unhappy land into the red empire. i have purposely left the question of missile defense until last. i have done so because it is an area in which a fundamental policy decision must soon be made--a policy decision which will have a tremendous influence on the shape of the arms race and on international tension in the decades to come. if hing else i have said here this morning is worth remembering. i hope this brief portion of my remarks will stick in your mind and prompt the kind of serious and intelligent discussion that must take place if this nation is to act wisely to protect the best interests of its citizens. let me first explain how an antiballistic missile (abm) system operates. five thousand or more miles away a giant icbm is fired from its silo. it quickly uses up its fuel load. and then continues in a ballistic trajectory toward its target. as it heads down on its target. rushing along at the near orbital speed of 17.000 miles an hour. the defense radar system detects it and plots its trajectory. the missile must stay on that path. for it has fuel left to maneuver. near the target is an abm site. as the icbm homes in. the abm fires and quickly accelerates on a path calculated to intercept the incoming icbm. if all goes well for the defenders. the abms nuclear warhead explodes close egh to the icbm either to destroy it entirely or at least to render its nuclear warhead ierable. this abm system is called a terminal intercept system. because it intercepts the attacking missile as that missile nears the end of its long trajectory. when the abm explodes. then. it does so  over the territory of the aggressor nation. but over the territory of the defender. despite the progress that has been made toward clean nuclear weapons. the abm explosion produces fallout. that fallout will come to earth to contaminate everything with which it comes in contact. this leads to the first important fact: any terminal intercept abm system absolutely requires a vast system of fallout shelters. secretary mcnamara has vowed that he will never request congress to approve the deployment of a terminal intercept abm system without an extensive national fallout shelter program. aher major reason why an abm defense requires a comprehensive fallout shelter program is related to the enemys alternative strategy his target in this case would  be the city itself. but a spot upwind from the city and beyond the protective ring of abm. thus the city would have to have fallout shelter to protect its population.  for some time this country had under way a research and development program on a terminal intercept abm system called the nikezeus. combined with this research. logically egh. was research aimed at devising ways of thwarting the enemys abm system. these thwarting methods included such things as electronic jamming of the abm tracking and guidance systems and the introduction of various decoys and penetration aids. finally the decision was made  to deploy the nikezeus system becauseand this is the second important point i want to makewe have found conclusively that for the same amount of money expended. the offense can always beat the defense. speaking to the house armed services committee. secretary .mcnamara stated "it should be borne in mind that the cost to the soviets of adding additional missiles to their force augmenting their missiles with penetration aids would probably be but a fraction of the cost to us of offsetting those additional missiles or increased penetration capability with additional defensive measures."  is this fact unkn to the russians. the authoritative book "military strategy." edited by red army marshal v. d. sokolovskl and published last year. says "one must recognize that the present instrumentalities of nuclear attack are undoubtedly superior to the instrumentalities of defense against them." (p. 307) the defense department is presently at work on a successor to the nikezeus system. called nike x. it is designed to provide three improvements over the earlier system: 1. a high acceleration abm. named sprint. which would be fast egh to allow the tracking system extra time to determine which blips are missiles and which are decoys. 2. a multifunctional array radar (mar). which could track a large number of missiles simultaneously with minimum risk of saturation. 3. hardened components. which would discourage direct attack on the abm system. currently the department is spending $400 million a year to bring this system to the point where the decision to deploy must be made. this point is  estimated to be the end of 1964. needless to say. the protection of our cities. or our retaliatory forces. or both. by an integrated. hardened nikex system will be fabulously expensive. secretary mcnamara has stated that the remaining research and development. plus the investment cost of "one possible nikex defense program"-he didnt furnish any details about which onewould run about $16 million. but. prof. freeman dyson. one of the nations top theoretical physicists and military experts. said in a january statement published by the federation of american scientists that "a system which tries to protect a big country is likely to cost $100 billion by the time it is finished." the real figure probably lies somewhere in between. but if we include the immense cost of a truly effective national fallout shelter program. which is an indispensable part of the abm systemwe come to the third fact: the cost of producing and deploying an a3m system. together with its fallout shelters. will stagger the imaginations even of those people who have learned to rest easy with the present federal budget. let us look at just one final aspect of the question. suppose one or the other great power decides to go all out to procure and deploy an effective abm system. (incidentally. we have good intelligence to the effect that the russians have  done so. despite some occasional propaganda boasts to the contrary.) would public opinion allow the other great power  to match the effort. and if it had to counter. in view of the second fact above. would  a nation. instead of building its own expensive abm system. choose to increase its offensive capabilities. which it could do at much lower cost. carry this reasoning further. step by step. and you will come to a fourth important fact: the deployment of a fullscale abm system by any major power will. barring a selfrestraint  heretofore evident. inevitably lead to an acceleration of the arms race. at a time when we are just beginning to have a few hopes about leveling off the arms race while we still can. this could well be the impetus which would put a solution out of reach.  one final remark. as the murphy article i mentioned earlier says. it is almost a certainty that the defense budget will level off and perhaps -drop in the years immediately ahead. this is primarily because the changes ordered by the kennedyjohnsonmcnamara administration have for the most part been accomplished or are nearing their final phases.  there is a certain amount of nervousness on the part of the public concerning possible ecoic dislocations resulting from cuts in defense spending. it is  inconceivable that the abm system could be offered as a means of taking up the slack occasioned by cuts in other defense spending. i am  willing to go out on a limb right  and make up my mind about how to vote on abm funds in next years budget. but i do think it would be extremely unfortunate if the public were led to accept this new program.  on the grounds of the contribution it might make to our national security. but as a cushion for the defense sector of our ecoy. one way to avoid this possibility would be to establish a top level ecoic conversion commission which would be able to plan in advance a smooth transition to an ecoy less oriented to military contracts and expenditures. thirteen democrats and six republicans in the house have introduced legislation to create such a commission. you have gathered here today to try to make .some sense out of the complex and dangerous world we live in. i hope that in these few minutes i have been able to at least clarify some of the pressing issues for you. they are  easy issues or easy decisions. your representatives in congress need your help in reaching the right answers. i am sure that all of you. after this weekend. will be better able to do your part to help him work toward a saner. more peaceful world.
. as one ofthe cosponsors of the resolution proclaiming the week of march 21 as national week of concern for american prisoners of war and those missing in action. i am delighted to join with so many of my colleagues today and take part in the efforts of this chamber. and the various concerned groups and many individuals throughout the nation. to focus. public :attention on the plight of these men and to sway ha from its refusal to abide by the principles of the geneva convention on prisoners of war. the treatment of the over 1.600 american citizens and servicemen who are being held by th vietnam. and the suffering which their families have undergone. weighon the conscience of every one of us. indeed. of the world. this is reflected  only in the efforts of our own government. but also the work being done by humanitarian groups and international organizations. and the increasingly large number of private citizens who have joined in expressing their concern and registering their protest to the government of th vietnam. it is reflected in the resolution passed last december by the social committee of the u.n. general assembly. calling for compliance with the geneva convention and reaffirming the fundamental principle that prisoners are entitled to basic protection. care. and communication with their families. this action was an important and most gratifying expression of world opinion on this issue. these efforts must continue. however. and must grow. both at home and abroad. to rectify the grave violation of human rights with respect to prisoners of war. because of the overuse of the institution of specially proclaimed "days" and "weeks." it may be tempting to shrug off the observance of this national week of concern for prisoners of war/missing in action. the intransigence with which so many efforts have been met in the past may make the situation seem hopeless. yet. we can let ourselves become inured to the situation. one should dismiss the significance of this week of march 21. which can be the occasion to lift our thoughts up and out of the bitterness and divisiveness which the conflict in southeast asia has created. for the sake of the some 1.600 pows being held in th vietnam. and for the sake of their families. many of whom have suffered the anxiety of  king the whereabouts or welfare of their loved ones for 6 years. this week should be one of deep and conscientious national concern and observance. a week of prayer. a time in which all men unite to express their hopes for the safety of these men and to confirm continued dedication to work on their behalf. in an editorial comment on march 20. the christian science monitor offered a deep and moving plea for the meaning which this national week of concern holds. and i repeat an excerpt from it here in the hope that it will be realized: if any shred of meaning is left in the symbolism of a week set aside by congress for special national observance. let it be made manifest this week. in the prayers of all americans. of whatever political or ideological persuasion.
. the amendment of the senator from new york is intended to provide a guideline. to establish priorities for a nation at warat war  only in south vietnam. but here at home. i hope that this amendment. expressing as it does our deep concern with the problems of our people and our personal commitment to the welfare of our country. will be adopted by the senate.
. i believe that the best service we can perform is to support rather than to attempt circumvention of the present efforts of the nigerian government. despite all attempts at mediation. the war was finally brought to an end by the parties to the struggle. in direct contact. the same must  be true of the reconstruction. with the conclusion of the war. the ibo people will  find their security and their future within the federal government of nigeria. and that security must be based on trust. the many peoples of nigeria must learn. once again. to work together. the process will be vastly facilitated if. indeed. it is nigerians who provide aid to nigerians. rather than europeans or amercans who provide aid to ibos. western observers certainly have a role to play. european and american participants are even  working side by side with nigerians. and their presence in the wartorn areas is a great help in restoring confidence among the ibos. but americans and europeans can come between the former combatants. for if they do. the people of what was biafra will look to outsiders for sustenance and security. they will  see the efforts of the nigerian government to help them. and. old differences far from being mitigated. will unfortunately be perpetuated. with possible dire consequences for the future. this is what i refer to when i speak of the choice which confronts us. the easy. the politic. in some ways the most personally satisfying course of action would be to provide direct relief. with or without the consent of the nigerian government. but in terms of the longrange welfareof the people. in terms of the stability of the country. in terms even of saving the largest number of lives both  and in the future. this would be the worst choice we could possibly make. the harder choice. but the wiser one. is to support the government of nigeria in its best efforts to reunite the country and to restore the badly shattered confidence of a large segment of its people. general gowon and those who work with him have conducted affairs in a manner which merits our confidence and support. they are the leaders of a sovereign state which in difficult times is seriously trying to provide for the welfare of its people. in this effort they have the support of the leaders of the former rebellious territory. we can best serve the interests of all concerned if we recognize nigerias sovereignty in this matter. if we assist the governments efforts in the way which they deem most helpful. and if we refrain from any overt acts or suggestions which might serve to impede this constructive process. i highly commend these efforts. and pray that the day may soon be at hand when there will be truly one nigeria. with equal rights and full opportunity for its people.
i thank the gentleman for that comment. i might say that i took the trouble saturday. and i should have them some time today. to order pictures taken of what those quantities would be. i think the members will be amazed to find out that it amounts in the neighborhood of seven to eight mediumsized potatoes for a family of three persons for a week and the same number of slightly larger potatoes for a family of four persons for the same period. to go on: my constituents from greenfield had been assured of cooperation on the part of the commodity distribution division of the massachusetts department of public welfare and over the week end all of the clergy of that town. together with the council of social agencies. conducted a complete survey in order to provide exact information. they did this because they had been advised it would be necessary to make this survey and to report definite figures. then. we ran into insistence by the state office that these potatoes which were largely located within a radius of 6 to 10 miles of greenfield would have to be transported south to springfield. a matter of some 25 miles. unloaded. weighed. and rebagged presumably into these lots of 10. 20. 25. 35. 45. 55. and 65 pounds constituting the maximum amounts. of course. they would then have to be brought back through these communities where they are  stored and delivered at greenfield. all of this was in the face of the willingness by the salvation army at greenfield to use its truck in going a few miles to obtain these potatoes. take them to greenfield. store them and be responsible for their distribution. i  only got in touch with the department here. but i wired gover dever of massachusetts. requesting his cooperation to remedy this. on february 15. i wired the secretary of agriculture stating the entire background. including the fact there were approximately 7.000.000 pounds of surplus potatoes  available for food in the connecticut valley. and included the following sentence: in view of complete reliability and good faith of clergy of greenfield. council of social agencies. and salvation army and of extra unnecessary expense to the taxpayers of massachusetts and united states if rigid compliance required and under all circumstances in terms of providing these potatoes for food for people who need them . i respectfully urge your prompt action in ordering the requirements of fp51 and fp53 waived so that these potatoes may be made available promptly and without expense to these people. this is a perfect illustration of the sheer impossibility of a federal department undertaking to manage a farflung program affecting all of our communities. large and small. without providing flexibility. without recognizing that the officials and citizens of our communities  only have ability and integrity. but that they can do a far better piece of work in carrying out the details of any such program than can state or federal officers undertaking to handle the entire program. i am glad to report that on saturday the board of public welfare at greenfield formally agreed to act as the storing and distributing agency for potatoes in the town of greenfield. and so informed the director of commodity distribution in boston. i hope that this has met with approval in boston by this hour and that these potatoes can be started from storage spots to people who are in need of them within the matter of hours. all this points up the immediate necessity of consideration by the committee on agriculture of the identical bills filed on february 2h. r. 7135. h. r. 7136. h. r. 7137. and h. r. 7138. i shall include a copy of that brief resolution in an extension of my remarks. so it may be readily available. i urge all who are interested in providing clear and specific authority which will prevent waste and destruction of these emous quantities of food commodities to join in requesting an early hearing upon these bills.
i appreciate the comment of the senator. it is in line with my thinking. we may have disagreements. for example. about whether bombing in a certain area is wise or  wise. productive or  productive. but those are matters apart from the broad policy we are all. trying to pursue here. although the matter has. been clouded by the tendency of everybody to cast us either in the camp of the doves or hawks. to either get. out or destroy everything. if there is anybody in the senate who belongs in either of those categories. i have yet. to discover who it would be. that kind of categorizing only clouds and makes more difficult the solution of our problems over there. we do have tough problems when we are dealing with a society as old as this one is. and as unlike our society as this one is. it is almost impossible for us to understand it. we are going to have great difficulties. the only justification. it seems to. me. for a discussion of this sort is  thatsenators may run the war. because. senators are  competent. to run a warin the military sense. but senators are supposed to be men of some intelligence and men possessed. above all. of the belief and governed by the principle. that the. facts. are what.count. it seems. to me very desirable. since the. senators. speech. had been publicized by. him but by the. new mediaas a "hawkish"speech. thatwe get as much of the characterization out of the thing and as much. of the hard facts into it as we. can.. i close by saying that. formyself i shall continue to try to find out what. the facts are and how we are actually doing. the evansak column the other day discussed a little phase of this thingthat is. the difference between statistics in their quantity and in their quality as. regards vietnam. and the accomplishments of the pacification program. well. this is aher phase of the matter. it is. very difficult for us in the. senate to get. the- kind of facts we must have in order. to judge. and guide. policy and. determine the. success of the conduct of that policy. but i have a feeling thatthis debate must continue until. all the facts are laid. bare as to. the success we are having in south vietnam. or the. lack of it. .just on the militarysidealthough that is important. too. of coursebut in the. way of. helping the south vietnamese to establish a nation. that is the whole of the question. i have some question as- to the socalled pacification. program. it is  something. wei can say is good. and we must support it. i. think there are many questions: about. whether. for instance. pacification as.  conceived amounts to much. more than a gigantic welfare program and attempting to. buy support by tossing in a lot of money. i shall support those efforts to help south vietnam in the hamlets.. villages. sections. and different regions of the. country to help themselves develop. under a local autoous system.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. that is the burden of what i am trying to do. i thought that we should have a realistic understanding of what we are doing. i am  coming to my next point. which is exactly consonant with what the senator from tennessee has suggested. in other words. the means are very important. it is important that the war on poverty be organized in such a way that it can go on over a period of years effectively and efficiently with the use of relatively limited resourcesbecause we realize that the resources are very limited. i believe the biggest deficiency in the bill is the lack of coordination between the federal government and other elements of our society which are working on this problem. a great amount of work is being done in the private sector. as well as in the public sector. the great danger exists that there will be an administrative overlap and duplication. and that money and effort will be rather aimlessly spent. that is the central core of the problem with which we must deal. i approve of dedicating the national government to this struggle and to the winning of it. just as i approved of the principle of dedicating the national government to the war on unemployment. which represented the pledge of the full employment act. the idea which seems to prevail among those who brought the bill to us is. in my judgment. somewhat worrisome. i shall propose an amendment in a moment. and i shall discuss it. the amendment is designed to deal with this problem. those who brought the bill to us in all good willand i do  question their sincerityfelt that the thing to do was to jump into the local community. and in a spectacular fashion deal with and cure large pockets of poverty and bring back a great number of school dropouts. and in that way have an important and major effect upon the country. it seems to me. with all due respect. that while this course involves pyrotechnics and perhaps is good for politics. it is  particularly fruitful for those whom the program would help. and is  a sober proposal with respect to what could be done in mobilizing for the war. we are really mobilizing for war. a good many amendments have been added to the bill. and i am happy to say that they were added. they buttress what we are doing in establishing an organization which is capable of waging effective war on poverty and coordinating everything that is being done . and utilizing the resources in key places where it is necessary to strengthen the best of what is being done. however. i find one serious deficiency in the bill. the first point that i referred to is covered by amendments which  require close integration between this program and private and local governmental agencies. the program does  as yet tie in adequately with the states. in the sense that the director of the program. as the program  stands. is authorized to proceed directly in each community or even directly with private philanthropic and welfare organizations. and is  required to endeavor to develop the program through the agencies of the states which are willing to develop it in a way satisfactory to the director of the program. i believe that is a great mistake. i shall offer an amendment to deal with that problem. i point out. in order to show the way in which the problem came to us. that even in the youth camp program. which the senator from minnesota has been discussing. there was  taken into account the fact that many statesmy own state of new york. the state of california. and the state of michigan. for examplealready have youth camps in operation exactly of the kind proposed to be authorized in the bill. it would be much more ecoical for the federal government and a great deal more efficient if state camps were expanded. and if the director were able to enter into agreements with states to accept some of the young people that he wants to send to those camps and put them in the existing state camps. these camps would be expanded in order to meet the capacity requirements. it was only after we went into this phase of the discussion that an amendment was accepted. which is  incorporated in section 107 of the bill. to that effect. the amendment which i shall proposeand i intend to call it up in due courseis designed to deal with the fundamental program of organizing effectively and efficiently for the assault on poverty. and of enlisting the states as far as they wish to be enlisted. thus. the whole program would  revolve around the director in washington. who. under the bill. would be permitted to go into any state and operate with any municipal or county subdivision or with any private agency in that state on a washingtonwithinthestate basis. my amendment provides that he shall use his best efforts to develop state plans in carrying out the major titles of the bill. and shall utilize state agencies and facilities. whenever and wherever practicable. either at the initiation of the programs or in the course thereof. he is also authorized to pay the expenses the state agencies incur in performing this function and to render technical assistance to help them get ready to perform those functions. boiled down. this means that the antipoverty program may be started in any state without the consent of that state. if the director feels that that is what he wishes to do. but the state is to have an opportunity to take it over if it shows itself able to do it and the director of the program finds that it is a practicable arrangement. if a state claims that it is ready to take over the program. and makes a showing that it is able to handle it. the burden of proof will shift to the director of the program to show that he has a reason why he can or should  turn it over to the state. this means a whole operation under a particular title in a proper way and  on individual applications. in addition. there is hing in my amendment which would prevent the director from moving into a particular state or subdivision of the state or in dealing with a private agency within a state. before the state has an opportunity to assert its desire to operate the program. it may assert that desire at a later time than when the program is initiated. the program would go right ahead in the meantime. hence. both purposes are served. the states will conduct the program within their own borders in every case in which they can do so practically. the administrator must show that when a state says it can and he says it can the state really can do it and the program is  held up by state operation as a condition precedent. but the administrator is in way inhibited. there is condition precedent to his going into any state and beginning work under this program. he ks that hing can be held up. hing can be delayed. hing can be thwarted in the way of active work which he feels he must do. as one goes through the bill. it is expressly contemplated in almect every part of the bill that there shall be state plans. if there are to be state plans. then a state ought to have a right to run those plans. if it can. i have even provided that if it can. it shall be within the judgment of the administrator. but it is a fact that the administrator will have to account to the state and to the president if he claims it is  practical. and a state claims that it is. the requirement for state programs or state plans occurs in every section of the bill: the work training plan. section 113 (a). the work study program. section 126. title ii. which relates to community action. contains a provision for allotment by states. which is section 203(a) . section 209(a). which relates to action even within a state. as between urban and rural communities. there. too. state plans are contemplated. section 210 is to the same effect. section 311. with relation to migrant agricultural workers. calls for state plans. section 603(a). as to the domestic peace corps. calls for state plans. throughout the bill. the idea of state plans is frequently advanced. but it is  coupled with an opportunityi emphasize the word "opportunity"-for state administration. if the state is able to do it. and without in any way impeding the beginning of the program or preventing the administrator from moving into an area where the program is to be carried out in order to fulfill the most urgent needs of the country as quickly as possible. where there is a program whose resources are essentially seed money. essentially coordinating money. essentially money devoted to the dedication of the national purpose. the war on poverty. rather than being able to mount a complete antipoverty program itselfwhich it is clearly admitted the bill can doit seems to me that in those instances the states must really take part in the program in an important way. i believe the bill does  provide for that. my amendment would do it in a way which would  incur the argument that it would delay. frustrate. or stop anything at any time. when the states are fully introduced into the administration of the program. the leading welfare programs financed by the federal government. together with the states. are state administered. that applies to the kerrmills medical care for the aged. old age assistance. aid to dependent children. maternal child health service. crippled childrens service. child welfare service. aid to the blind. aid to the disabled. unemployment compensation. the various programs for migratory labor. social security. and the public assistance programs. all of these programs are state administered. it seems to me that what we should seek to do with this program. within its ambit of what it is capable of doing. is to give it the most competent organization. so that it may proceed with the best possible effect. there is grave danger that if the administration of the program and its supervision are concentrated on the national level alone. it will break down through the sheer inability of the bureaucracy to give it the supervision which it requires. and that it will break down through the sheer lack of selectivity which comes from trying to look at the whole united states in the mass from right here in washington. it will break down by too much of the burden of supervision. throwing it upon local and private agencies. without a state intermediary. and therefore becoming an uncoordinated program without reference to its basic. central purpose. it is very much to the interest of the program itself that it should have. where practicableand that is the only thing i providea firm. fundamental state base. this will be very good for the success of the program and very good for those in the country who would benefit from it. the argument is made against this amendment that it will place the burden of proof on the administrator. that he will have to demonstrate. where he refuses to turn anything over to a state. although the state is asking for it. that it is impracticable on the part of the state. this is a burden which. in the interest of the efficiency of the program. the administrator should bear. this is different from many federalstate programs which can be started in a state unless the consent of the state and the state administration has been obtained. it is a little difficult to see how this program could be pursued in a state which was really hostile to it. or where the state government was really hostile to it. therefore. i believe that in opposing the amendment. those who testified before us. including the prospective administrator. . i am much interested to learn that editorial opinion upon this subject has generally adopted the ideas which i have just laid before the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the leading editorial in the new york times of july 21. entitled "debate over poverty." which carries out every concept that i have just advanced to the senate. may be printed at this point in the record.
mally. i would feel the same way. but i do  feel so strictly about the antipoverty program. here we have a national responsibility with respect to poverty. and we should  allow it to be frustrated within a state by reason of the fact that the state would oppose the entire program. but if the state is actively opposed. the director would probably find it impossible to operate there. i do  believe passivityand i think that is the real questioght to prevent the operation of the antipoverty program. which appeals so deeply to the humanitarian instincts of the american people. we are concerned with the policy of the war on poverty which. as i think we all k. is  adding anything more than the morale of a single concerted effortthat is my own judgment of what it meansand it should  be frustrated by the passivity of a state. a state should really be required either to be positive about it and take it over. which under my amendment it would be perfectly free to do. or to oppose it actively. in which case its people could be alerted and could react. i do  believe the active objection of a state would make it impossible for the director to operate or that passivity alone could keep the program out of a particularly bad situation in a state. i am grateful to the senator from massachusetts for helping me to elucidate this point clearly. my amendment takes that middle ground. it would reward willingness to take it over. one can do anything about a negative position. because it would be a practical impossibility to operate if a state were against us. but it would  reward passivity. either. it would require a state to choose one definite position or the other. or else be subject to having the director move into the state and operate within the state. even though the state is  actually in approval.
. i believe that i bespeak the views of many senatorsi certainly bespeak very thoroughly my ownwhen i say that a nation as powerful and productive as our nation certainly should mount a war on poverty. that hour has come. i agree with my colleague. undoubtedly the timing is political. but often very important things are done in political seasons. and the people are served just the same. so. though we call attention to the timing as political. the fact is that the bill can be rejected on that ground. there is an effort in this concept of a war on poverty to sweep unemployment under the welfare rug. but the bill does  reflect it. the message did. but the bill does . the bill is very definitely designed to deal with endemic hardcore poverty where national cooperation. some vocational financing. and beyond everything else. the morale factor of concentration of effort upon a given target at a given time. with the massing of means. would have an effect. for that reason i supported the bill. i believe it is for that reason that 10 other republicans on this side of the aisle supported the bill. i believe it is eworthy that without their support. the bill could  have become law. i hope that the bill will have at least that support on this side of the aisle in respect of the present motion. an analysis of the bill will bear out what i have said. i do  believe any of us on this side are too happy about the job corpsthe socalled ccc camps. but i think there is a great deal of feeling that the community action programs are important. that the vista itemoffering an unusual opportunity for service on the part of young peopleis important. and that the youth employment opportunities aspects of the bill and the work training sections are very important. therefore we must take the job corps along with it. one very disquieting feature has been introduced in the house. namely. the socalled loyalty oath requirement. this issue has been argued time and time again. and the national defense education act was amended in 1962 with respect to its requirement of a loyalty oath. because it is degrading to many people to challenge their loyalty by requiring a disclaimer of disloyalty. how much more degrading is it to the endemic poor. who have chance to argue. who are given a piece of paper and asked to sign. certainly. it demeans them. and demeans the united states. of all the places where a loyalty oath should  apply. it is to those people. if loyalty oaths are to be applied. why  have farmers take loyalty oaths because they receive money from the various agricultural aid programs. why  apply such a requirement to manufacturers who receive benefits from the treasury. why  apply them to airlines who receive airmail and other subsidies. so it begins to look ridiculous.
. i am very grateful to the senator from kentucky. i would like to take a short time to ask some questions of the senator in charge of the bill. i shall be happy to accept the answer of either the senator from west virginia or the senator from kentucky . duplication of federal efforts is what worries most of us. in other words. as we clearly articulate. all of these programs that we have createdthe war on poverty program. the area redevelopment program. the accelerated public works program. and the manpower retraining programhave generally similar purposes on a national basis. they deal with problems which are. in numerous instances.  different from the problems of appalachia. why do we need a special piece of legislation that. in many ways. duplicates a number of the programs which i have mentioned.
. this amendment was recognized as a most humanitarian amendment when it was submitted. the amendment authorizes this function to be performed in the office of ecoic opportunity. it does  compel that agency to carry it out. it states the intent of congress to have information and coordination available in the war on poverty for voluntary help to needy children. the amendment would . as i have  amended it. impose any responsibility to obtain or to give any information which may be confidential or which can be disclosed because of state laws. the antipoverty program is 1 year old. after 1 year. we propose to take out of the program something of its heart. something of its soul. it seems to me that. at the very least. this is precipitate and. at the very worst. it is thoroughly heartless. the program could really be a creative program if used creatively. the oeo apparently is interested only in how much money can be appropriated and spent. they are interested only in programs which require the expenditure of a great deal of money. but they are  interested in using a little heart and a little of their brainpower and ingenuity. i am kn to be liberal in my views. i am very proud of it. however. i do believe a great deal can be done with brains. we do  need money for evelything. it seems to me. in life or in government. it is extremely disheartening to see an agency shrug off somethnig of this character which would  involve the spending of money. one wonders whether. if this provision had been attached to a $10 or $20 million price tag. they would be quite as anxious to get rid of it as they seem to be . that is what we are here for. occasionally we must keep an agencys e to the grindstone. this is one of those amendments. it would  cost them anything or do anything to them except make them use their brains.
. most of the problems with which we have dealt in the committee had thorough and detailed consideration. when i first went into the matter of marking up the bill this year. i regarded these questions as being rather neatly "put where they belonged" in an administrative sense in terms of government departments. as regards the various activities carried on by the office of ecoic opportunity. that would include education. it would include various phases of manpower training. it would include even operation headstart. it certainly would include the job corps. the more i studied the problem. the more testimony i heard. the less i felt that we were justified in doing it at this timeand i emphasize the words "at this time." let us remember that in 1966 the program became 2 years old. the rate of increase of utilization of the various aspects of the program have emously increased only within the past year. when we did what we did with the program. we sought a coordinated war on poverty by a high level federal official through whom the job could be done. tieing in all the departments rather than throwing the poverty program. in its initial stages. upon the shoulders of already overburdened departments to whom it would be aher added activity. in deep conscience. i say to my friend the senator from arizona . and also to the senator from california -and i think it is so gracious of the senator from arizona to have undertaken this for the senator from california. for reasons with which we are well acquaintedthat one can say that this is  an amendment of serious purpose and of serious importance which lends itself to a reasonable view of the situation. until one understands the strong and the coordinated war on poverty which has been created by a unitary administration. the fact that the programs are just getting off the ground. and the fact that they are  lost. as they would be in the departmentsand i do  say that invidiouslyin an already overburdened bureaucracy without the zeal and enthusiasm which i think. in all fairness. whatever may have been my disagreements with him. and whatever they are . sargent shriver has succeeded in fusing into the office. at least up to this time. those of us who k the score k that this does  last forever. thus. what is being sought through this amendment will face us. without question. in a year or two. i am therefore finally persuaded--and i really have sweated this out myself because i rather had the same view that- my colleagues had. before i really did think it through and stew over it. to use a colloquialism--that for aher year. at least. we should continue the present kind of program with the drive and morale. and the specialization which results from this office with a special. as it were. crusade frame of reference. as these camps are being built up. if senators will look at the initial words of the committee report. they will find such an emous increase which has gone into the job corps camps in the very short period of time in which they have been in operation that the job corps camps in 1966 will have doubled as compared to what they were at the close of fiscal year 1965. i respectfully submit that this is the kind of crash activity which we expected in the war on poverty. we should therefore give it aher year. in my judgment. and that will be the optimum period in which to absorb and in which to refine it. and in which to have the kind of treatment which it will obtain. and has obtained. in the war on poverty administration. rather than throwing it on the shoulders of an already heavily overburdened labor department where there will be yet less activity and will  have the kind of evangelism and the kind of detailed. personal treatment which i think this needs in order. really. to solidly establish it. therefore. i think the amendment. while entirely appropriate to test the question. is a year ahead of itself. it is for these reasons that i most reluctantly feel as i do. that i shall  be able to support the amendment. i wish to add it is undoubtedly "down the road." but i think it is still "down the road a piece." and that there is at this writing next year more to be gained for the program by leaving it within the framework in which it is  located than in making the change proposed.
. in our debate on the pending war on poverty amendments it was most important to have before us the most authoritative and informed program prepared under the chairmanship of gov. nelson a. rockefeller. of new york. by the policy committee of the republican govers association and issued in albany. n.y.. on august 14. 1967. i ask unanimous consent that the ninepoint action plan and the lists of the govers participating and endorsing it be printed in the record at this point.
. i am sorry that events have kept us to this late hour. i had hoped  to keep my colleagues so late on this matter. but i believe the bills i am introducing today are critically important to relieve the situation facing the whole war on poverty as to require some elucidation to senators.
 nixon and the new administration would dismantle the antipoverty program have proved to be baseless. i believed they would be. and i am glad to see that they have been proved to be baseless. the first step is a reasonable one. the assurances given of the continuance of the oeo. of its assured role in the antipoverty program. and that the war on poverty will continue and will be financedthese stand out as the most critical aspects of the message and should be very reassuring to the country.
it is a question of how best to deal with it. it is my judgment that we are  dealing with a simplistic equation of 205 militants against 20.000 students. militants attract to them a constituency. too. i want to get at the basis of this issue as well as the senator does. it does  mean that we have to wait until poverty is eliminated. it does mean that there are reforms of institutions on the campuses of this land which are being made. the answer is. they are being made. they were made at columbia. and the most of the difficulties have stopped there. the same goes for ccnythe very university that dr. copeland testified about. they are being made elsewhere. at berkeley. stanford. and other places. the question is: shall we allow them to be made. or shall we leave it to the discretion of the militants to initiate actions because we have too simple a view of the situation at the federal level. it is  a question of enforcing the law. but enforcing the law intelligently. we will never have egh policemen. or army. navy. and air force to merely enforce the law if egh people are against it. therefore. i want the biggest constituency behind me when i try to enforce a law intelligently. i do  want to concede it to the militants.
the last point. it is my judgment that the very best result that could be obtained from the differing views of the two housesand i signed the report after much considerationis that it will vest in the director a program in which he can prompt the creativity and the ination which will provide a way to redeem people from poverty. leaving to the other agencies the services which other people require. that is the basic objective of the president. it is my judgment that if the conference report is approved. the fundamental concept of the administration as to what shall happen to the war on poverty will have been incorporated as a firm foundation into law. i hope very much. because of the problems of personnel. and so forth. with the greatest respect to the views of my colleague. it is my deep conviction that we should  go home from this session of congress without giving a statutory base for a settled period of time to this agency if we really expectand i k that we doto do the creative and the inative job which president nixon has designed.
i am going to say that later in words or syllables which i hope will be of historic significance. but the important thing is to develop with the best brains and ingenuity we can find ways of interrelating the two programs in order to get a better approach to a level of sufficiency. i compliment the senator from south dakota on his distinguished leadership. after all. it is he who brought this committee about. i invoke also in this matter. and i think it is only fair. the name of robert kennedy who. with former senator clark of pennsylvania. the senator from california and myself. formed the first subcommittee that scratched the surface of this terrible problem. wherever robert kennedy is. he is looking out with a dear and beneficent expression on everything we do today. thus. i take great ho and pleasure in joining the senators in expressing the expectation that we will make a creative contribution to the total effort of the president. the president has enlisted himself in the war on hunger. it is one of his finest initiatives. we should buttress the proposal for an increased welfare base with what has seemed so logical an element of itfoodto give it a closer approach to sufficiency.
the government appeal agent. as i say. is supposed to help him if he wishes to prosecute an appeal. and it seems to me that in cases like this. which are so informal. it is very valuable to whoever is dealing with the appeal to k the basis for the boards decision. even if very briefly and episodically put. finally. as i have just explained to the senator from new hampshire. there is. again. effort to impose a straitjacket by providing for legal representation. we have inserted the words "accompanied and advised by counsel." rather than the word "represented." so that a registrants lawyer will . be fighting the case. and again. it is within the concept of the bill. if a lawyer becomes too obstreperous. to have him pipe down. his right is to accompany and advise his client. rather than engage in forensics before the board. and there again. i think senator kennedy was very well advised to accept this formulation as being modified to meet the particular exigencies of appearances before draft boards. it will be ed that we have stricken out. as i have explained to the senator from new hampshire. the whole network of problems. personnel- and moneywise. which would have arisen if the united states had undertaken to supply counsel where there was counsel present. we can. i think. take a reasonable chance on that. in the sense that. from my experience. there are plenty of lawyers. bar associations. and legal aid societies to render this kind of service. including the legal services of the poverty administration in many places. so that i do  think we need to provide for that in this measure. for all these reasons. because of the seriousness of what is involved and the most elementary due process which. as i have explained. can be obious in its operation because of the way this amendment has been developed. i hope very much that the senate will see its way clear to give the assurance and confidence to the individual which would be engendered by the addition of this amendment to the draft law
. it seems to me that the purpose of the legal services program is  a state aid program. it is an effort of the federal government to deal with poverty. it is an element of lyndon johnsons war on poverty and it turns out to be a successful and useful element. this substitute would change it completely to a state aid program to give legal services to the poor. which in my judgment was  intended and  designed. which this is  designed for. and it was  the congressional purpose. therefore. i agree with senator nelson that we should consider such an approach. senator helms undoubtedly will wish to testify about it when we have the oversight hearings. and we will welcome him. but. right in midstream. when this whole enterprise is established. when it has been reformed in terms of a professional board of directors. when it has essentially the backing. support. and implementation of the bar associations of the countryfrom the american bar association downit would be a great mistake. in my judgment. to insert which is what this substitute would doa straight state aid program. i hope the senate rejects the amendment.
