i thank the distinguished senator from maine. q. but wouldnt tile proposals for congresslonalcampaign subsidies require a candidate to demonstrate he has support before he can qualify for public money. a. i agree. but tile fact is tile requirements arent that stiff. what is the argument for giving this power to tile federal government. i dont understand it in light of the track record of the federal government. which has been on( of chicanery and corruption. the real story of watergate was the story of the federal government gone haywireof federal institutions being used politically. . what are you doing with a federalfinancing concept. what youre doing is to say. "o.k.. were going to punish those who had hing to do with the situationthe peopleand were going ahead and putting additional power in tile hands of that institution which was involved in the wrongdoing. look at the two major parties: the people have less and less faith in them. thats a statistical fact. yet the representatives of tile major parties are trying to make sure that. regardless of declining support in numbers. theyre going to have the money to continue operating. q. the backers of public subsidies for congressional races argue that private financing leaves open too many opportunities for wealthy special interests to buy influencea. sure. there have been attempts to buy elections. we saw that in 1972. when massive amounts of money were poured into nixons campaign by people trying to buy an administration. attempts have been made in congressional races but how do you deal with it. the answer is you give the electorate the facts. and let the electorate decide whether or  an election is being bought. the answer is disclosure. aher answer is limiting the amounts of individual contributions and group contributions. this is a good r(-form. it seems to me that when youve limited the amount of contributions to $1.000 from an individual and $5.000 from a group. as we have. this pretty well stops the "buy" aspects of private financing. q. tile supreme court has ruled that spending limits can be placed on candidates only if they accept them voluntarily as a condition for getting public subsidies. isnt this a good argument in itself for extending subsidies to congressional campaigns. a. this goes back to the question of buyikg elections. disclosure is the answer. and were getting there. in 1945. you probably could have spent 10 million dollars on your campaign and ody would have kn it. today. everybodys going to k. tile public can decide whether an election is being bought. tile issue of buying elections has come up in several races of recent vintage. in some. tile candidates were lossed out. in others. though tile spending obviously assisted in a victory. tile public was  solely concerned with tile spending issue. what im saying is that as long as the facts are ol the table. im  worried. q. does the high cost of campaigns concern you. a. yes. it does. but what i propose is shortened campaigns. it is the length of campaigns that drives up tile cost. there is reason why tile primary and generalelection campaign cant be held to 5 months at most. instead of 10 to 12 months for a house race. or a year and a half to 2 years for a senate race. as it often does . im going to offer tills concept as a substitute for public financing when tile issue comes tip in tile senate. q. just how could you shorten campaigns. what would you prohibit. a. i would  permit any raising or expenditure of funds except during that fivemonth period for campaigning. before that candidates could speak all they wanted to. but money could be raised or spent. q. wouldnt such limits favor tile incumbent. who usually is better kn than his challenger. a. look. there is hing i can devise that isnt going to favor the incumbent to some degreejust absolutely hing. youve got to legislate on tile m and  the oddball exception. q. suppose you see that congress isnt goint to accept your proposal to shorten campaigns and is going ahead with an extension of public financing. are you going to try to alter tile legislation in some other way. a.  i cant accept any part of public financing. i intend to fight tooth and nail to block passage of this political meadow muffin. again. that was an interview with u.s. news & world report in 1977. so as my colleagues can see. even then i was opposed to the legislation which brings us here this morning. the feeling that that legir1ation was entirely inadequate to the task. which indeed it has proven to be. i mentioned disclosure in the article. and i really think that disclosure and the concept of shortened campaigns is the answer to our problem. but tile concept of disclosure also came up in the senate ethics act which we passed on this floor and again which i opposed and again to which i offered a substitute. amendment. one calling for full disclosure. the issues are very. very similar. let the constituency.  an ethics committee which we  have.  a federal elections commission. which associates with the campaign financing act. let the constituency decide what i:. prmissible or - what is acceptable in maine might be considerably different than what is accel)table in connecticut. considerably different than what is acceptable in california or oregon. let the constituency within each state decide what it is that they will accept in terms of both the amounts and tile sources when it comes to campaign financing. i wrote an article or) the matter of disclosure for the new york times. again this was in 1977. i will  read from that article which was called fullfulldisclosure by lowm.i. p. weickeitt. jr.: seventyfour years ago. tilt british philosopher george edward moore wrote of the "difficulties and disagreements" that arise over tile subject of ethics. rile problems. ie wrote. "are mainly due to a very silh cause: namely. tile attempt to answer questions without first discovering precisely what question it is which you desire to answer." tile united states senate.  considering a new code of ethics. provides living proof of moores thesis. members k full well that they must answer the public cry for stringent rules of conduct. tie issut (all longer be iged. yet. they are rushing to meet tile challenge without a clear perception of what tile socalled reforms will remedy. tile senate ethics plan under consideration is an amalgam of arbitrary restrietions and incomplete regulations whose only clain to the title "reform" stenis from its public relations value. very much akin to what we are doing here and what we did in 1977. these two came tip simultaneously in 1977 visavis campaign financing. the proposal proclaims tough. new financialdisclosure provisions for senators ain( top senate aides. but it stops well short of revealing all financial interests. tax returns need be revealed. specific amounts of assets or liabilities need be listed. when the senate and house approved i lie $12.900 pay raise (recommended incidentally  by the senate and house but by an independent commission). lawmakers drew criticism. their response was to promise "reform" and to limit the amount of a senators outsile earned income to 15 percent of his new salary. iging tile fact that one cent paid a public servant demands proper condtuct in return. the new reform bill implies that a $57.500ayear senator requires improved ethics over tile $44.600ayear model. there is magic to tile 15 percent ceiling. even tile bills sponsors admit that it is pulled from thin air. but. sonic type of income limit is vital to the integrity of the institution. they argue. senators making more than $8.625 a year giving speeches. writing books or maintaining all outside business interest might appear to be in tile pocket of special interest groups or shortchangilg tile american peopleyou see the very argument that is being presented out here todayby failing to devote egh time to their senate work. consideration is given to those senators whose profits from stocks. bonds or family wealth far exceed tile earned income of their leswealthy colleagues. in essenv. tills "reform" rules out outside income for (5ss welltodo senators while permitting rich lawmakers to get richer. would  tile potential for legislative conflict of interest be greater for a senator holding 1.000 shares of stock in a mnjor cor. poration than for aher lawmaker who earns $1.000 delivering a speech to all educational institution. instead of scurrying for public favor through artificial and illogical restraints on officeholders. tile senate should consider ti e ffectiveness.  tile cosmetics. of its et hical standards. this is the issue here. if the question of ethics hinges on a faltering public trust in its elected officials. there is one best way to restore comidence: let the american people police their own politics. let the american people police their own politics. instead of senators judging tile propriety of their fellow senators. give the public all the facts and let the voters decide what is a conflict and what is proper. then i go on in the rest of the article to advocate a system of full disclosure. for those who are seeking avenues of accountability in this matter of the financing of federal election campaigns. they do  have to look uny further than to the people of this nation. in march 1977. i wrote an article in the congressional digest on a question of federal financing of congressional election campaignsthis is 11 years ago-"should federal subsidies be provided for congressional election campaigns." i wrote the "con" arguinent. from the debate of march 17. 1976. on the floor of the u.s. senate during consideration of s. 3065. tie federal election campaign act amendments of 1976. sen. weickers remarks center on an amendment to the pending bill which he had introduced which would have had the effect of repealing provisions of the fea relative to federal funding of presidential campaigns. from tile start. i have believed that public financing of national election campaignswhether presidential or congressionalwould be a mistake. i have long believed that such public financing. rather than being a reform. is a dangerous step toward decontrol of tle federal government. and decontrol in tile sense of the control exercised over us by the sovereign people of the united states. for several years. efforts have been mounted in the congress to broaden the present provisions. utnder which the campaigns of presidential candidates are financed from tax revenues. to include funding for the.campaign expenses of candidates for the senate and house of representatives. as my colleagues k. i have expressed grave reservations about tile action of congress which authorized federal funding of the presidential campaigns. anti have expressed my undisguised concern over damage to basic and vital principles of our american system which would resultand. in my view. have resultedfrom such a method of financing. i feel. if anything. even more strongly about proposals to devise a similar method of financing candidates for congressional office. i understand tile motivation behind public financing. it was deemed a reform measure to reduce the role of money in the american political process. and to diminish the amount of money spent in the course of an election. but i suggest that. in effect. all we did when we enacted public financing was to accept the problem and merely find a way to finance it. what am i talking about here. i am specifically saying that the reason why so much money is expended is tile length of our political campaigns. why then (lid we  attack the basic problem. reduce the time. because. indeed. if we had done that. we would have reduced the funds to be expended. instead. we accept the idinately long length of cam. paign time. believe me. unless the funds are coming from some source other than individuals. it does demand a sort of financing scheme. with the test intentions. the congress enacted campaign reform legislation calling for direct federal subsidies to presidential candidates. however. that accommodates rather than eliminates the problem. the problem is long translating into big money. public financing only pays tile blackmail imposed by that sin. matching funds have kept floundering presidential campaigns afloat beyond their time. i said that in 1977. and it has happened several times since then. they have allowed one issue candidates and those with only a marginal chance of success to overspend their budgets. king a taxpayer bonanza waited in the wings. allowing the federal government to bankroll everybody who wants to be president is a subsidy that can only sap the vitality of a free society whose excellence depends on the survival of tile fittest ideas. one measure of a candidate is his or her ability to generate contributions for public office. candidates should sell their ideas to will.  just be a warm body and rely on the federal dole. worse. public financing gives congress control of tie campaign war chests of presidential challengers. the campaign reform act was drafted in 1974. with the congress and white house controlled by different parties. under these circumstances. each candidate of a major political party would receive $20 million in a general eiection. were the nation to elect a president with a large majority of ills own party in the congress. who can say that the formula for allocating funds would remain the same. and what of enforcement. once we hand the congress the political purse strings. the people will longer have the final say. instead. politicians will be monitoring politicians. and that is  a healthy situation. tile dangers of public financing were recognized by tile majority of the watergate committee when they opposed enactment of that decision. in a brief filed by the appellants for tile supreme court. in tile case james l. buckley against francis r. valco. these dangers were clearly described: "grave dangers to the future of democratic government result from direct payments to parties and candidates. democracy depends largely on free political competition and the freedom to form. join or leave political organizations. once a party becomes officially sponsored by tile government or government begins to determine the allocation of political resources. tiat freedom is endangered." the experience to date with the tax checkoff to finance presidential campaign funds indicates little interest and enthusiasm among tile people. only 10 percent of the taxpayers chose to direct. tile $1 of their taxes owed for 1972 to the campaign fund. the total amount designated for 1972 was $12.9 million. for tile taxable year 1973. npproximately 14 per cent of the taxpayers exercised this option. accounting for $17.3 million. approximately 20 per cent of tie taxpaers submitting returns for 1974 funneled moneys into the presidential camlpaign fund. the total amount for that year was $31.9 million. as of february 25. 1976. ap. proximately $t..i million has been accumulated. the total funds received since 1971 is approximately $68 million. with 80 per cent of tile american people saying to checkoffs. it is time the congress rexamined the policy of paying checks out to presidential candidates. i understand that there are those who would want to extend the federal financing principle to senatorial and congressional campaigns. then how long will it be before designated general funds are used when indeed the pot becomes too small for tile numbers desiring to run or participate. i confess that with todays myriad of unresolved needs. i find financing political campaigns rather far down on my priority list. if we have become so devoid of initiative. ideas. and courage that the american people are walking away from todays politicians. then it is time to get out. rather than to monetarily assure a continued presence. if we want to reduce the role of money in politics. reduce the time of politicking. in so doing we will preserve the rights of americans. while getting better men and women to serve. i have heard comment that in fact these are  general funds. that these are designated by various taxpayers. well. . let us examine that just for a minute. i do  have the right. neither does any american taxpayer. to designate that a certain amount of my tax shall go to hud. or that a certain amount of my tax shall go to defense. so. in effect. we are giving a special privilege here. it is money that does come out of the general fund. it is money  going into the general fund but. rather. into the business of politics and financing of campaigns. i think. and this is all the amendment is stating. that if we are going to take this step. both in the sense of its effectiveness in reducing the ills of our political system and in the sense of what it does to the basic rights of americans. this is something we should tread into with a light step. it makes emninent sense to examine our experience. as we will the experience of tile election of 1976. before we impose such a system forever on the american people. it would be very hypocritical. indeed. for this congress to demand a zero budgettype base for all the other agencies and programs of government if we are  willing to do it to ourselves. i hope the american people understand what is at issue here. i have always (toroughiy objected to this public financing being labeled as watergate reform. it was such thing. it has relationship to the facts of executive abuse. relationship whatsoever. indeed. what we have done with this type of reform is to put more power into the hands of the executive. more power into the hands of the congress. one thing the american people still have to themselves is their vote. their support. their contributions. this is their one check on the government. and it is one that i feel they should preserve. but certainly. since tile congress. the representatives of the people. deemed it advisable to give a new system a chance. let us try it out. but then let us put an affirmative responsibility on our shoulders to justify its continued existence. i have made the statement that i thought in this country what we should do is have february 2d. 1.988 o] the candidates file t he first tuesday ill september. let there be direct primaries the first tuesday in october. and then let tile general election take place tile first tuesday in emnt r. letting the whole process consume 60 .ays. believe me. then we will reduce the role of money in campaigns and we will also. 1 think. achieve a very affirmative result. i think most peoples attention spaln is quite good. if we are talking 60 days. i think in two years it sort of wavers. there is qluestlon in my mln"d that in this way ideas will be at a premium and they will count. by tile same token. obviously. the funds expended will edlive. but what we in effect have done is just to go ahead and accept a bad situation and figure out  how we are going to pay for it. but how the american taxpayers are going to pay for it. there you have all the remarks made in the year 1977. and here we are right back at it. moving. just as i predicted then. away from public financing of just presidential campaigns to include those for congress. for the house and for the senate. i might add that i will stick by my resolution of shortening campaigns. let time be the disciplining factor. do  discipline the freedom that the american people have of expressing themselves. whether by virtue of their resources or their energies. s vietnam policies were invited. implying that those who had questioned our involvement in vietnam were either against peace or were dishoable men and women. some of these incidents were matters of life and death and were well publicized. others were matters of principle and were little iced at the time. in each instance a significant outrage had taken place. what was common to all. in each instance one compla.ned. a constitutional stillness was over the land. the next chapter was entitled. "the uproar." that american decency. idealism. honesty and rcvercrn. for the constitution that some thought bought off has been stirring and reasserting itself for many months . yes. a few still shout treason when questions are asked. a few still espouse the end as justifying the means. a few still goggle at an american title rather than the title of american. but it was only yesterday. june 17. 1972 to be specific. that todays few were part of a large american majority. why the turnaround. the truth. because frank wills discovered taped doors at the watergate. americas doors didnt close in all our faces. the next chapter is "constitutional democracy in the era of watergate." for this senator. watergate is  a whodunit. it is a documented. proven attack on laws. institutions. and principles. the response to that attack was and is a nation of laws at work. determining whether men shall prevail over the principles of a constitutional democracy. it has been and will be the testing of a great experiment in government begun some 200 years ago. laws. institutions. and principles were squarely before this committee. to be debated. probed and documented. in order to assert remedies and reassert timehoed concepts. guilt or inence was  an issue. this was a factfinding body. it was a legislative body. and those duties go to the heart of what watergate was all abovi. l. keeping with the committees duties. this is a report of facts and evidence. leading to legislative recommendations. one of which. i might add. i just read to this body here. being against federal financing of elections. to document the abuse of laivs. institutions. and principles. the facts and evidence are presented. first. as they bear .on the basis of our laws. the constitutio. second. as they relate to the institutions of our government. and third. as they affect the principles of our political system.
 and other official employees of the u.s. government earning in excess of $20.000. as well as income tax information relevant to the public business. it is very important all appropriate information bearing on a public officials possible conflict of interest be open to the public scrutiny. fourth. the establishment of the office of legal counsel to the congress to provide legal advice and legal opinions to members and committees. to review executive actions as prescribed by the congress and to intervene in court actions on behalf of the congress when there is an issue involving the laws of the united states or the actions of the congress. in addition. the legal counsel is to represent either house of congress. any member or committee of congress in any legal action in any court. federal or state. where the validity of u.s. laws. or congressional actions of any kind are at issue in the proceeding. it is important the congress have an ongoing office to handle the legal problems that have arisen with greater frequency in recent years. i am fully aware that these proposals are farreaching and controversial. but they go to the very essentials of the way we govern ourselves. by mr. bartlett:
