gladly. just as soon as i complete this one point. on page 173 of this report of the presidents board entitled "science and public policy." there is the only breakdown i k of which is available for our consideration of this problem of the division between basic research and applied research or development. and if you go through the budget you find practically agency. down to the smallest. that does  have some kind of research undertaken. it is easy and apparently popular to label some appropriation item "research." then the door is wide open. it may be important and necessary. it may be relatively unimportant. and it may be a senseless. extravagant waste of time and money. and remember all the evidence is to the effect that one ks how much is good. indifferent. or bad. i personally suspect that a very great deal of it would  be countenanced by any reputable scientist. i think it entirely possible that the national science foundation would find in the rest of government much more than the 82 millions the national defense is eliminating which would be discarded without injuring anything but actually improving the federal program by unchaining talented scientists and placing them in sound programs. i have made reference to the report of the presidents scientific research board. this board was created by executive order 9791. dated october 17. 1946. as it was first constituted. it consisted of john r. steelman. chairman. robert p. patterson. secretary of war. james forrestal. secretary of the navy. julius a. krug. secretary of the interior. clinton p. anderson. secretary of agriculture. w. averell harriman. secretary of commerce. john d. goodloe. administrator. federal loan agency. watson b. miller. administrator. federal security agency. maj. gen. philip b. fleming. administrator. federal works agency. charles r. denny. jr.. chairman. federal communications commission. dr. jerome c. hunsaker. chairman. national advisory committee of aeronautics. dr. vannevar bush. director. office of scientific research and development. david lilienthal. chairman. atomic energy commission. gordon r. clapp. chairman. tennessee valley authority. gen. oinar n. bradley. administrator. veterans administration. j. donald kingsley. executive secretary. board of alternates: maj. gen. h. s. aurand. director. research and development division. general staff. war department. john nicholas brown. assistant secretary for air. rar adm. paul f. lee. chief. office of naval research. department of the navy. dr. thomas b. an. assistant director. geological survey. department of the interior. dr. w. - v. lambert. director. agricultural research administration. department of agriculture. dr. edward u. condon. director. national bureau of standards. department of commerce. miss mary e. switzer. special assistant to the administrator. federal security agency. herbert s. fairbank. deputy director. federal works agency. carroll l. wilson. general manager. atomic energy commission. e. k. jett. commissioner. federal communications commission. john p. ferris. director of the commerce department. tennessee valley authority. john w. crowley. jr.. acting director of aeronautical research. national advisory committee for aeronautics. dr. paul r. hawley. chief. medical division. veterans administration. dr. edward cushing. medical division. veterans administration. john t. cox. jr.. administrative officer. office of rubber reserve. reconstruction finance corporation. dr. eugene w. scott. deputy director. programs division. joint research and development board. its reports to the president were in five volumes. three dealing with the federal governments special role in the nations total science effort. a fourth with the problem of science and technical manpower and final report discussing research and allied science both in the government and in the nation at large. these reports contain a wealth of statistics and other material from which members can obtain concrete and convincing evidence of the preeminent necessity of action in this field. let me read just a few sentences from the opening part of the first report: the security and prosperity of the united states depend today. as never before. upon the rapid extension of scientific kledge. so important. in fact. has this extension become to our country that it may reasonably be said to be a major factor in national survival. a generation which has witnessed the awful destructiveness of the atom bomband i might insert here. has  learned of the hydrogen bombor which has read newspaper accounts of developments in biological warfare needs special demonstration of the relation of science to military preparedness. in the war the laboratory became the first line of de-. fense and the scientist. the indispensable warrior. there is likelihood that this would be changed in the event of aher conflict. it is unfortunate that any part of the case for federal support of science should rest upon its military importance. but responsible person can fail to recognize the uneasy character of the present peace. the scientific isolationism which inevitably results increases the urgency of federal support for science and influences the balance in any recommended program. scientific discovery is equally the basis for our progress against poverty and disease. this alone would provide adequate justification for public interest and support. if we are to remain a bulwark of democracy in the world. we must continually strengthen and expand our domestic ecoy and our foreign trade. a principal means to this end is through the constant advancement of scientific kledge and the consequent steady improvement of our techogy. throughout most of our history. the living standards of our people were raised by expanding our land area and bringing more and more acres under cultivation. that route has  been substantially closed for more than a generation. and we have increased our productivity through an advancing techogy. the processes and machines we use in our factories. the ways in which we raise and preserve our food. all derive from theoretical discoveries in the various sciences. the techogy in which we excel and which has transformed us in some 80 years from a backward agricultural nation to a world power rests upon progress in the basic sciences. only through research and more research can we provide the basis for an expanding ecoy. and continued high levels of employment. our techogy is sufficiently advanced and our resources sufficiently adequate so that there is immediate prospect that we shall fall techogically behind. we shall in the future. however. have to rely largely upon our own efforts in the basic sciences to provide the basis for that improvement. the danger lies in the future. as a people. our strength has lain in practical application of scientific principles. rather than in original discoveries. in the past. our country has made less than its proportionate contribution to the progress of basic science. instead. we have imported our theory from abroad and concentrated on its application to concrete and immediate problems. this was true even in the case of the atomic bomb. the basic discovery of nuclear fission was made by otto hahn and f. strassman in germany. founded on preliminary research in italy. and published in a german periodical in january. 1939. just before the laboratories of europe went dark. that free exchange of ideas which formerly permitted us to import to meet our needs longer prevails. europes laboratories are still blacked out and are. likely to remain so as long as the unsettled state of the world continues. in many parts of europe. scientists have been dispersed or slaughtered. laboratories wrecked. intricate and unique equipment destroyed. in others an iron curtain has been drawn around the work of the scientists. the strong nationalism. characteristic of these times. and the isolationism of science that results is a further barrier. the unity of western civilization has been shattered. and for the first time in our history. we are on our own so far as the extension of kledge is concerned. let me quote just one more piece of evidence from these reports. it is pointed out in that most major nations of the world recognize the essential importance of science to them and are expanding their research and development budgets and then it is stated: the soviet unions 1947 budget is reported to provide $1.200.000.000 as compared with outlays of $900.000.000 in 1946. compare that to our actual 1949 expenditures of $940.000.000. the report goes on to say: in addition. the russians have embarkedand this was in 1947upon a 5year program of steppedup scientific training. under which they are reported to be producing 140.000 engineers and scientists each year. compare that with the fact that in 1930 we had 49.000 scientists and technicians. 92.000 in 1940. and then in june 1947 our universities and colleges graduated only 35.000 bachelors and 1.300 to 1.400 doctors of science. this bill deals specifically and constructively with a means of encouraging the education of more of our young men and women in this vital field. while i certainly respect the integrity. sincerity. intelligence. and ability of my colleagues who are inclined to oppose this legislation. i earnestly suggest that some of these facts in the light of the almost unanimous opinion of our responsible leaders in national defense. in the educationa4 field. and in the business world should carry great weight with us in reaching our final decision. . let me turn to the hoover commission report. filed with congress on march 25. 1949. as you all k there were certain differences of opinion among the commissioners as to a number of the reports. but this was the unanimous report and recommendation of the 12 commissioners. the full report on federal research is  long and i commend it to you as additional and extremely important evidence. for my part. i wish  to quote only certain excerpts which i believe to be of vital importance in our consideration of this legislation:
