. on monday of this week the ripon society. a group of outstanding young men in the cambridgeboston. mass.. area addressed a call to excellence in leadership to republican leaders throughout the country. it is a thoughtful statement of our political situationidealistic yet practical in its approach to the vast number of problems facing us today. it calls upon us to provide an effective moderate point of view in developing a strategy for an assault on the domestic and global issues at stake today. i commend it to my colleagues and urge them to read it carefully. this statement is the product of the thoughtful discussion and study by the ripon society for many months. it is offered in the spirit of constructive effort to build a republican party which will be equipped to lead the nation in the years ahead and reflect credit upon our twoparty system. under unanimous consent. i submit the statement for printing in the body of the record:
. i would compliment the gentleman on his remarks because. indeed. i think the people of the united states do expect the miity to pursue a responsible course of action here in the congress that will lead to a meaningful bipartisan foreign policy. it is plain that the position of the u.s. government in certain areas of foreign policy is  clear. it is equally true. i believe. that there are certain tests in foreign policy that must be applied and that the american people must be fully apprised of. one of the first of these is whether or  we indentify emerging problems and deal with themthrough creative statesmanship before they become crises endangering the peace. i think in the spirit of bipartisanship it is important  only in south vietnam.  only in the congo. but equally in the near east. that policy be made clear whenever possible. because it is a matter of fact that the united arab republic has  hoed its undertakings with regard to withdrawal under certain conditions from the yemen. it is clear that the recent arab summit conferences have taken a position that is belligerentspecifically defining "the national cause as that of liberating palestine" and "adhering to a plan of joint arab action." it is true that the united states stands back of the unified johnston plan of 1955 in the near east for the equitable sharing of the jordan river waters by all the riparian countries. yet we have seen a conference of arab chiefs of state take a position with regard to the diversion of some of these headwaters. if this policy is continued. it might lead to a casls belli. in my judgment it is a responsibility of the congress to ask the secretary of state appropriate questions to see whether our policies are effective. to find out whether they are in fact truly building the peace. in the near east the fundamental question is whether the armistice agreements can be translated into documents of peace. whether a third war in this area can be prevented. i believe hostilities can be prevented but only if our policy in concert with other nations in the area is firm and clear. only if it is unmistakably evident that we will  stand for belligerency. that we will  stand for aggression. and that we stand wholly back of the united nations and will  condone repeated violations of the spirit and letter of the united nations charter. so i hope that this kind of inquiry can go on from time to time. and i would join with the gentleman in urging the house to make it possible for the secretary of state to answer forthrightly on the floor of the house pertinent questions in the national interest.
the gentleman is entirely correct. from my limited experience with the foreign service i can assure the members of the house that there is hing more important than for a country to k that any joint programs should lead sufficiently far into the future to enable that country to plan ecoically and fiscally. indeed. we have often insisted on this kind of approach. to cut aid off and on is precisely the haphazard approach against which president eisenhower used to warn. it destroys that confidence. assurance. and continuity essential to realistic. sound planning. the point made by the igentleman from new jersey is completely valid.
. dr. tibor weber. are tireless in this cause. they have helped to prepare for the 10th anniversary on october 23 of the modern hungarian revolution against tyranny. as dr. varga has stated it: the aim of the hungarian revolution is already an historical fact and the report of the special committee on the problem of hungary stated as follows: "from the study undertaken by the committee and the testimony it has received. doubt remains as to the intensity of the desire of the hungarian people for the complete withdrawal of soviet armed forces from hungary". (general assembly of the united nations. official records. eleventh session. supplement  18. a/3592. page 53) the resolutions of the general assembly of the united nations regarding the hungarian questions. concentrated for the withdrawal of the soviet armed forces from hungary (1004esui. 1005esii. 1127 xi.1131. xi.1133. xi1312. xiii. 1857xvii) were always voted by the overwhelming majority of the general assembly. the hon. u thant. secretary general of the united nations. in his speech in the general assembly on september 17. 1957. at that time as burma representative. stated: "we remain convinced that what occurred in hungary was essentially a spontaneous uprising ... we regret therefore that the soviet union has  seen its way clear to withdrawing its troops and permitting the hungarian people to work out their own form of government". i feel that the hungarian revolution is unique in one aspect. it was initiated by the youth. it was basically made by them without any leaders and with only one purpose in mind: independence for hungary. and what is most remarkable is that the students grew up and were taught by the communist and they. as the hungarian revolution shows. were a product of the dynamic idea of the twentieth century: to exercise the right of the selfdetermination. it means that the iron curtain can  stop the spirit and the idea of a free world. all anncements. radio or publications were concentrated in one subject: independence for hungary. and as the revolution showed. the students and the workers sacrificed their lives for it. unfortunately. the revolution was lost. especially because the free world was  alert and did  give the proper help through the united nations. therefore. the aim of the hungarian revolution has  been yet fulfilled. the hungarian people do  want military help or war. but they just feel that the free world wants to forget their right and legal aspiration to be independent. the hungarian people are badly disappointed to realize that the united nations makes little or effort at all to lift up the iron curtain. our federation sincerely believes that the aspiration of the hungarian people can be peacefully accomplished if the thinker leaders of the free world. permanently promote the cause of hungary. this would help  only the hungarians but the free world too. because one of the most restless parts of the world would remain quiet. their study on the soviet occupation of hungary follows:
secretary seamans has testified today that the united states will begin deployment of the minuteman iii mirv system in june of this year. the continued momentum deployment of this potentially destabilizing techogy is highly disturbing. it could have the most unfortunate consequences for the impending salt negotiations. i do  k how the soviet union will react to the united states continued efforts on this program but it is unlikely that they will abandon their own multiple warhead techogythe techogy which poses the gravest threat to the u.s. deterrentif our own country has deployed such systems. there is military justification for deployment of the u.s. mirv on the timetable originally planned. the heavy soviet defenses which it was designed to penetrate do  exist and could  be installed in the immediate future. in the interests of serious diplomacy and strategic stability. the united states has every reason to stretch out mirv deployment. we should refrain from premature commitment to weapons which add  to our security but only to the complexity of arms control. in a nuclear age genuine security must ultimately rest on mutual restraint.  mutual recklessness. the tragic drift toward deployment of these dangerous weapons highlights the urgency of prompt senate action on the resolution proposing a joint sovietamerican moratorium on mirv testing. unless a moratorium of this type is adopted in the coming months. continued testing of mirv systems will surely lead to accurate counterforce weapons which will threaten the landbased missiles on which both countries depend so heavily. fortythree senators have cosponsored this proposal and i profoundly hope that the committee on foreign relations will quickly report this vital resolution. it is essential that the senate offer its counsel to the president on this matter. i urge the president to postpone this unwise deployment. such a postponement could afford time to explore controls over mirv tests and deployment when the salt talks resume next month. coupled with other strategic arms limitations. these controls would be of inestimable value to world peace and security. delaying mirv deployment while these issues are examined will in way jeopardize the national interest. i pray that the president will delay mirv deployment in order to preserve the maximum opportunity for the discussions at vienna to bear fruit. decision of his presidency will be more momentous.
i thank the senator. if we want allies. we must work together. . i want to point out that the other members of the united nations can. without the approving vote of the united.states. order the forces of the united states. or even their own forces. to proceed against the united states through the mechanism of the united nations. in other words. the armed forces of the united nations to some degree correspond to the sheriff in our local governments. and it long ago was discovered that it is  practicable to require the sheriff to arrest himself. under the laws of ohio this contingency has been met by authorizing the coroner to arrest the sheriff that becomes necessary. in the international field there is outside agency ready to be designated by the charter to meet this contingency. it is hoped that through the pacific mechanisms of the charter settlements of international disputes shall be reached. as far as possible. by peaceful means. insofar as the charter contemplates internation disputes involving any of the big five. it relies upon making a settlement of that dispute by peaceful means. ample provision has been made for the recommendation of terms of settlement of such a dispute through the action of the security council under section 37 of the charter. this provision shows also that it is essential to the use of the enforcing agencies of the charter that the big five shall remain united if they are to use the ecoic or military forces of the united nations under articles 41 and 42. the charter. therefore. reaches its limits as an enforcement agency and offers to the world mechanism to meet the contingency where force shall be necessary in order to prevent one of the big five from breaking the peace or from committing an act of aggression. if such a tragic situation impends. it means that the world again faces the danger of war among the worlds major nations. if this takes place. it may well lead to the destruction of civilization. it is. therefore. upon the faith of the peoples of the big five in the value of peace to themselves and to the world that the machinery of the charter rests as its basic foundation. it is for this purpose that article 28 requires that the security council be so organized as to be able to function continuously. each member of the council shall for this purpose be represented at all times at the seat of the organization. this should contribute to the effectiveunity of the united nations. if that faith dissolves to the point where one or more of the big five threaten the peace of the world. then there is hing in the charter to forestall by show of force that impending breach of the peace. in that event. the individual nations of the world. be they members of the big five or . will aline themselves. without regard to the charter. in accordance with their desires and best lights. it is hoped that a sound basis for such an alinement will be clearly indicated by the preliminary steps taken by the united nations in their effort to obtain a peaceful settlement of the dispute. it is hoped that the ends of justice will have been so clearly demonstrated by the terms of settlement recommended that there will be need to force parties to reconsider their plans in the light of the military strength of the world. in that event the nations of the world will be worse off than without the charter. in fact. the procedure under the charter will have afforded to all nations a better opportunity to see the true issues of the then pending dispute than otherwise would have been the case. it is our hope that such a demonstration of the merits of the case would lead the major strength of the world to aline itself with us. and us with them. whether such a realinement will place the major forces of the world with us or against us
the gentlemans bill is of great interest. of course. to me as i am sure to every other member of the committee. and touches on a problem of the greatest moment to our country and is tied up with the whole slogan as the gentleman just said of. "trade  aid." the question i would like to ask the gentleman is this. we have had a number of commissions in this field. they have  been congressional commissions or commissions of this character. but they have been commissions. i would like to mention to the gentleman. the names of some of them. we have had the international development advisory board which. if memory serves me. in either 1950 or 1951 developed quite a report on this very subject. we have. also had the mutual security advisory board. which only in february of this year under the distinguished chairmanship of daniel ball. former under secretary of the treasury. issued the famous bell report which is on the table . i understand that the president has  appointed the former ambassador to great britain. lewis douglas. to set up a commission to go into the very same subject.  here are at least three. those were preceded by the famous gray committee and the gray report and so on. i am sure the gentleman is thoroughly acquainted with all that. i think what the gentleman needs to deal with. if he will permit my saying so. is that with the mal feeling here as the gentleman and i so well k. where our members want to look with a rather critical eye on all new commissions. in view of this record of commissions that have already functioned and are in contemplation . i think the gentlemen needs to make very clear where this particular idea of the gentlemen fits. and why it is needed  in view of all of these other activities. i hope the gentleman understands that i say that only to lead his thoughts in a direction which may get him results. and i do  at all intend my remarks to be critical. i compliment the gentleman on his understanding of the fact that this is perhaps the keystone of all american foreign policy.
. we are discussing a bipartisan foreign policy. it is a subject with which i have been identified since i have been in congress. i believe it should be made clear that the administration wants a bipartisan foreign policy and has gone to great lengths in giving information to and consulting with leaders of the miity side in the congress. but such a bipartisan policy must be based upon  using what happens in the way of history as a partisan weapon. i hope very much the responsible people in the democratic party will  fall into the trap in the present situation in indochina that some republicans fell into after june 1950 in using expressions such as "trumans war" and other expressions with respect to the vital united states and united nations resistance to communist aggression in korea. our people were deeply grateful for the cessation of the korean fighting. but the great majority understand the issue only too well of the communists constant totalitarian and imperialist drive to extinguish all freedom. which has burst out elsewhere. and which we must lead in turning back. i hope that responsible elements on both sides will join with the administration in a bipartisan foreign policy in an enlightened way. one that is truly representative of the best thought the american people have in both parties. this is our way of closing the ranks in a time of danger and this is certainly a time of grave danger to our national security and to freedom.
this would be a very unwise course to take by the senate at this time. especially when it is such a serious matter to the small nations. i respect the senator from ohio emously. in my opinion this was a very wonderful thing for him to do. he told me in advance what he had in mind. even before i filed my amendment. i think it is great. i am very pleased that it is here. it is hardheaded. and it should be here. however. as long as the language has come out of the committee this way. i would say to my friend from ohio to himself consider the implications which we would raise by striking out those words with respect to commitments. i do  believe it is worth doing it. in all deference and respect and ho. i do  think it is worth it. i believe we would be taking something out of the bill which has significance and importance. we would be indicating our doubt as to whether a particular country would keep its commitment. we can safely leave all that to the discretion of the president and the state department. i have criticized them before. and doubt i will again. i do  believe there are any angels. but this is a very hardheaded thing. and they are  going to lead us into any culdesac on an issue of this character. we can safely leave it to the doublebarreled discretion that we  have established. we should  give any idea to some person who will get up in the united nations and say. "you see what these americans are like. you have to give them cash on the barrelhead. they will  trust a nation who is a member of the united nations." i say it is  worth it. i ask my friend from ohio to think it over. he did a great thing when this went through the committee and when it survived in the dirksenmansfield substitute. which i believe should be adopted overwhelmingly. let us  do anything to spoil what is already a good thing. when. in all sincerity. it will  make any material difference.
. under present world conditions. it is impractical to expect the bulk of our foreign aid efforts and that of other countries to be made entirely on a multilateral basis. the bill calls for 15 percent of the aid funds to go through international agencies. that is probably just about as much as can be expected. i have a letter from the league of women voters of the state of new york. in which they state their objection to some of the limitations recommended by the senate foreign relations committee in s. 3584. among them the league objects to the requirement in this bill that 15 percent of development loans be channeled via the ibrd and idamuch as they favor the idea of aid through multilateral channelson the grounds that it may lead to a further reduction of funds for development loans. however. whether or  the requirement is mandatory. it is just about as far as we can go. in deference to the views of the league of women voters of new york state. i ask unanimous consent that this letter be made a part of my remarks.
