s environmental pollution panel recommends that this power of establishing and enforcing standards be expanded to include all activities in any way supported by federal funds. insofar as this recommendation encompasses a sound and necessary principle. it deserves support. but a more desirable method of implementation might be to combine such an extension of the secretarys powers with a provision calling upon each state to enact legislation establishing and enforcing standards for all industry and air pollution sources within the state. should such state action be forthcoming. the necessity for federal controls outside of federal installations would be alleviated. and a reduction of the federal jurisdiction in air pollution would become more feasible. even if each state were to enforce such standards. however. it would still be desirable to urge the formation of regional compacts and unified authorities to administer the air pollution control activities in multistate metropolitan areas. although smallscale efforts in this direction have been undertaken in the new york city area. these prototype compacts. as mayor lindsays task force report points out. have been endowed with minimal authority and jurisdiction. senator javits of new york has encouraged the formation of more comprehensive regional agencies. and federal action in the immediate future should offer strong similar encouragement. likewise. research programs should be intensified. under the aegis of the clean air act. with the goal of developing techniques for predicting local air movements which affect large regions encompassing several state jurisdictions. also of major importance. especially in the urban areas. is the need for intensive investigation into the elimination and control of sulfur pollution in the atmosphere. at the present relatively uncontrolled rate of pollution. 23 million tons of sulfur oxides (primarily sulfur dioxide) are poured into the air each year (national academy of sciences publication 1400. waste management and control). because of the deleterious effect of lung tissue penetration by sulfur dioxide. the magnitude of this pollution creates especially serious problems to congested cities. according to the report by the national academy of sciences (waste management and control). the generation of electricity by fossilfuel burning. the byproducts of various industries. and the residues of homeheating by oil burning are the three major sources of sulfur dioxide contamination (22.3 million tons of the 23 million tons each year). for an urban center like new york city. and especially the 17th congressional district. which i represent. the importance of immediate control of sulfur pollution is evi* dent when one realizes the immensity of the powergenerating operation within the city. * the academys report states that each losssllfuel powergenerating plant. such as those which comprise consolidated edisons new york city power system. may emit as much as several hundred tons of sulfur dioxide per day. a subject which is still relatively new and which has until  been beclouded with emotionalism and genuine problems of safety techniques is the generation of electrical power by nuclear reactors. for the reasons outlined above. however. some viable alternative must soon be found to present means of electrical power generation. although nuclear techogy has advanced significantly in recent years. the state of the art is  yet such as to justify the construction of reactors within the territorial jurisdictions of urban centers. according to mayor lindsays task force report and most scientific authorities. because of the psychological and emotional reactions which greet the prospects of constructing nuclear generators within cities. intensive research must be undertaken upon improving control and protection methods associated with nuclearsource electricity. moreover. the possibility of longdistance transmission of power thus generated. either over unused railroad rightsofway as suggested by mayor lindsays task force or by underground cables. must be more thoroughly developed. as the national academy of sciences report mentioned earlier points out. one of the primary reasons that these techniques and others discussed above have  been developed and implemented as rapidly as might be possible is that the refinement and manufacture of proper equipment has  been ecoically profitable. it is difficult and often impractical for certain industries to spend the large human and financial resources needed to apply proper control techniques to their own air pollution activities. the existence of waste material which constitute environmental pollutants represents intrinsic inefficiency in the industrial process. just as a few industries are able to utilize profitably every product of their particular manufacturing processes. so also would all other industries wish to eliminate costly wastes. at present. however. most industries accept some degree of wasteproduction as unavoidable. federal encouragement should  be given to private sources to develop a new. autoous industry to accept this challenge. to combat pollution by eliminating unused byproducts a separate and distinct industry can and should be developed for research and development of techniques and equipment to utilize presently unwanted residues. in this connection. i have been studying for some time methods of accelerating the federal. state and local efforts to effectively eliminate harmful emissions of oxides of sulfur. one of my first orders of business next year would be to introduce legislation designed to meet this problem by amending the clean air act to provide the secretary of hew with authority to award grants and contracts to private industry for research to develop an ecoically feasible system for the commercial utilization of sulfur byproducts of fuel combustions. the oxides of sulfur. for example. could be converted into h2s04 or sulfuric acid. which if produced in a sufficiently high grade or quality. could be sold to nearby markets. the legislation i would introduce further amends the clean air act to authorize the secretary of hew to establish and enforce with appropriate sanctions federal standards for sulfur emissions for those states which failed to submit acceptable proposals for state supervision and enforcement of air pollution criteria. the urban market for this new byproductutilization industry is large and unserviced. there can be little question that our cityoriented society suffers badly from this neglect. even if one assumes. for example. that 50 percent of the nations electric generating capacity will be nuclearpowered by the year 2000. the academy of sciences estimates that pollutants resulting from fossilfuel generation of electricity will double by 1980 and redouble by 2000. faced with this prediction as only one small aspect of the expanding pollution problem. we should examine the desirability of byproductutilization as one of the most effective longterm approaches to controlling and eliminating atmospheric contamination. that a separate and distinct industry is  needed to effectuate this goal is indicated by the inefficiency of the limited efforts which have until  been performed as small subsidiary activities by existing enterprises. right  studies are being made to determine how natural gas can be ecoically obtained from coal. this would eliminate pollution before it occurs and should be encouraged. i am informed by michael a. gibbs. esquire. of booz. allen and hamilton. inc.. that serious investigation is being given to this question by these wellkn management consultants. (see coal age. january 1966. following at the end of this statement.) throughout the first half of the twentieth century. federal activity in the field of air pollution was existent. the past eleven years have seen life breathed into exploratory and limited projects which have provided the indispensible foundation upon which to build future programs. the severity of the problem today and the imminent danger of future tragic deterioration render limited efforts longer wise or safe. mr. hall. gentlemen. i thank the federal power commission for the opportunity to submit this statement today. gentlemen. i was happy to have had the opportunity to submit this statement which i am bringing to the attention of my colleagues in the congress. it is my earnest hope that we can all work together to help control and combat the increasing and complex problems of air pollution. thank you. [reprinted from the pacific coast gas association proceedings. vol. 56. 1965]
