. from the committee on banking and currency. i report favorably. without amendment. the bill to authorize the coinage of 50cent pieces to commemorate the tercentennial of the foundation of the city of new york. and i submit a report ( 724) thereon. the committee is fully aware that the treasury department for a number of years has consistently objected to the enactment of legislation authorizing the issuance of commemorative coins. and while recognizing that there is much to be said for the objections which are raised to the policy of authorizing commemorative coins. it is your committees considered judgment. that exceptions should be made to the general policy when the event to be celebrated is. in the opinion of the congress. of such magnitude and of such historical importance in the life of our country and its institutions that it deems the event should be commemorated. the possible small additional cost to the united states in the issuance of the commemorative coin which this bill authorizes and which from time to time the congress may authorize is. in your committees opinion. far outweighed by the benefits that redound to us as a people and a nation. our history. our traditions. our institutions. are historic benchmarks in the development of the nation and their commemoration is symbolic of the spiritual and political development of the nation. and they help. asodoes our flag. to instill in the minds of our people that patriotic and spiritual fervor. without which we as a nation can survive. we must be just as vigilantin fact. more vigilantabout maintaining and encouraging the spiritual resources of the nation as we are about the preservation and development of our physical and ecoic resources. the material resources of a nation can be dissipated or destroyed. the spirit. tradition. and sacred history of a nation. if reasonably protected and developed. will  only never die. but will serve also to make it strong physically and ecoically.
 praised the program ing: it created new opportunities for elists. poets. painters. sculptors. and students in the artsin its attempt to sponsora great variety of projects to assist the arts in assuming their deserved place in american life. the legislation i am introducing today is a necessary concomitant to the programs already established by the congress to further creative activities throughout the country. even an elementary kledge of our income tax laws is sufficient to make one realize the substantial advantage of treating income as a longterm capital gain rather than as ordinary income. under my bill. a transfer. would only be considered the sale or exchange of a capital asset if. at the time of such transfer. the composition or other property has been substantially completed. additionally. this provision would only apply to one such transfer in each taxable year. as selected by the taxpayer. my proposed bill is almost identical to h.r. 14903. which i introduced in 1966.2 however. in that bill it was proposed that 2 see congressional record. 89th congress. vol. 112. pt. 8. p. 9986. only transfers involving "all substantial rights" in a copyright or composition should be entitled to capital gains treatment. in reassessing the problem my attention was directed to the inequity that would result because of the term "all substantial rights." such termiogy would preclude the application of the capital gains tax in cases involving movie rights and other important rights such as serialization. these rights. while  encompassing "all substantial rights" in the copyright or composition. nevertheless involve a specific and important area of the bundle of rights involved in a copyright. consequently. in the measure i presented today i have eliminated the word "all" from the phrase "all substantial rights." the annual report of the register of copyrights reveals that in fiscal year 1967. 474.226 articles were deposited with the copyright office. in that year 294.406 works were registered. including over 160.000 books and periodicals. more than 79.000 musical compositions and approximately 5.000 works of art.4 american consumers spend over $10 billion each year to purchase or witness the productions of creative intelligence. from these figures we can readily see that artistic creations comprise an important part of our ecoic structure. . that an author should be accorded the benefits of capital gains treatment for his creations in the event of their sale. this is a benefit enjoyed by an inventor. and there is reason to favor a patent over a copyright. the u.s. constitution gives these two important areas equal treatment in the provision of article i. section 8. clause 8. which gives congress the power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts. by securing for 3this change was discussed with irwin karp. esq.. an attorney and ed authority in the field of copyright law. report of the register of copyrights. 5baumol and bowen. "performing artsthe ecoic dilemma." the 20th century fund. new york. 1966. pages 424431. limited times to authors and inventors the exclusive right to their respective writings and discoveries." just as there are special provisions for the patent holder intended to stimulate inventive activity. i believe our laws should also stimulate like activity in the literary. musical. and artistic worlds. let us  take the concrete step of ending the ecoic discrimination against those authors and composers of literary. musical. and artistic compositions which exist under our present tax struoture by eliminating their inequity.
it is on a propertybyproperty basis. so you apply it only to the profitable section of his production. you could have the example in which an oil corporation is involved in a whole host of activities. upper tier. lower tier. new oil. under that examplelet us say all the oil from this field is tier 2 oilhe would be paying a windfall profit tax on that tier 2 section if it was profitable. it could turn out that the corporation could own oil that was tier 1 or other areas where he might be losing money. but the tax would only apply. in this particular area. in this profitable tier 2 situation.
. i should also add that s. 414 bill contains a technical amendment to clarify the intent of the 96th congress when it enacted the truth in lending simplification act. although the law does  require creditors to comply with the new provisions of the truth in lending act until april 1. 1982. the law specifically permits creditors to comply earlier in accordance with regulations promulgated by the federal reserve board. however. the statutory provisions do  make it clear that all the new provisions of the act apply to creditors who begin complying sooner than the required date. this has posed a problem with regard to the civil liability provisions of the act since they constitute a direction to the judiciary rather than the credit industry. i am sure that it was the intent of the congress that oreditors who comply with the new pro. isions of the act should also be subaauu. to the new civil liability requirements. either all the provisions of the old act or all the provisions of the new act should apply for a single creditor or in a single transaction. this amendmnent clarifies such intent. i intend to have prompt hearings on this bill. in order that the senate can act upon it prior to the february 27th deadline. i hope my feilow senators will support this measure. which will protect credit card users from extra charges or fees and provide the consumer with greater flexibility and choice. during the interim period of congressional review.e by mr. cranston (for himself.
if we are looking at american jobs. which is what we are interested in. and increasing american exports. i am  happy that american exports in manufactured goods show a deficit. we should undoubtedly sell more farm goods abroad. why. because obviously they have grown in dollar value. we have discussed this previously. i we-.1 to see americans given every chance to start even from the line and get these jobs. get them approved. get the orders back here. in the two banks i looked at in jordan. the two principal american banks. both of those banks previously had american managers. and 70 percent of their staff were american. since this law came into effect. neither branch  has an american manager and 70 percent of their employees are  american. one might say. three cheers: these jobs are going to the host country. but it does  work that way. the jobs go to thirdnation personnel. the manager of one of the american banks was a pakistani. the manager of the other bank was an indian. neither manager was a. jordanian and. of course. previously. americans had been there and we lost those jobs. so. time after time. this case omes up. the united states was once the  1 construction contractor in the middle east. last year. in orders. america was 10th in construction contracts0th from  1. . i am  going to suggest that this is directly as a result of this unfortunate law that was passed in 1978. but. time after time. it was pointed out as a factor. there are a host of other factors. but this was an important factor. i k the senator from wisconsin puts great reliance in the gao and i think he has cited the gao in a whole series of debates he has participated in here. the gao findings in february of this year conclusively show that u.s. workers overseas are at a competitive disadvantage with workers from other countries and. in many cases. it is the sole reason that the u.s. loses contracts or is unable to compete. so this modest loss in revenue. which is about $300 million. will be returned to this nation manyfold. in my judgment. if we keep the taxation of americans abroad provision as it is written.
. i support funding the legal services corporation at $241 million as recommended by the state. justice. commerce subcommittee. in the past year. we have undertaken the difficult task of cutting federal spending with the goal of reviving our ecoy. as a result. we have been asked to vote for a number of cuts in a broad range of valuable social programs. those of us who were concerned about the effects of many of these cuts have argued thatif they are to occurthey must be spread with some equability. in funding the legal services corporation at $241 million. we meet that aim. for this figure represents a 25percent reduction over fiscal year 1981 funding. if we wish to give meaning to the concept of due process. if we wish to make all americans equal before the law. then it is essential that we attempt to provide every citizen with equal access to our legal systemn. the legal services corporatir&l does precisely that. legal services 1i a democratic. locallycontrolled. and extremely costeffective program. the corporation funds over 300 programs nationwide and serves all 1.400 counties in the nation. last year. it handled nearly 1.6 million cases. the vast majority of which were resolved informally. though much has been made about the allegedly improper or political activities of legal services attorneys. the plain fact is legal services attorneys represent poor people in cases which have little. if anything. to do with politics or impropriety. and much to do with ecoic survival. the overwhelming majority of cases have emous consequences for the individuals involved. yet deal with relatively routine legal matters such as housing. consumer. or family law. the of tcriticized legal services attorneys work long hours at modest wages to provide counsel to the nations poor. if those attorneys come into conflict with state or local government. it is largely because they represent individuals who seek to assert legitimate claims for rights or moneys to which those individuals may be entitled. if they incur the wrath of their legal opponents. it is because the legal system is by nature adversarial. some have complained that the private bar ought to do more than it presently does to represent poor people. i would agree. but in way does that argue against the need for a strong legal services corporation. with ait least 30 million americans existing on personal incomes of less than $5.000. or family incomes of uinder $9.400. the need for representation is overwhelming. moreover. local legal services offices do work with the private bar and do refer numerous cases to outside attorneys. in my state of rhode island. the local legal services organization has been particularly effective in working with the local bar to gain greater private participation in the representation of poor people. yet. there are many cases which private attorneys simply will  take. finally. legal services attorneys provide special expertise in handling the types of legal difficulties which poor people most often encounter. if the corporation has been guilty of abuses in the pastand the evidence of such activities is sparse. anecdotal. and blown out of all proportionthen the four restrictions recommended by the subcommittee will be more than sufficient to prevent further mishaps. frther restrictions are unnecessary and would undermine the very aim of legal services which is to provide equal access to the courts for all americans. while it may be necessary to limit the legal services budget to $241 million. we should  confuse the need to cut a budget with reckless criticism of a vital program. legal services attorneys deserve our encouragement for doing well what few others would want to do at all.*
. the bill we are introducing today is a constructive step in the right direction on this highly complex issue. we shall be working further with the treasury and insurance industry to make sure the final product strikes the proper balance. we can be entirely certain at this point that this particular proposal is the only answer available. or even the best answer. i have decided to cosponsor it. however. because it represents a major first step toward resolving this important tax policy issue.e
. i am pleased to support this legislation as modified by the committee amendment. to maintain the small business administration as a strong federal advocate for americas 14 million small businesses. this measure is virtually identical to the provisions included in the budget package the senate adopted in may. although the administration had proposed the termination of most sba programs. this compromise will achieve substantial budgetary savings while preserving the agency whose mission is to advise. assist. and champion the causes of small businesses. reducing the deficit will help to bring down interest rates. increase productivity and create a better climate for small businesses to prosper. the compromise provision on sba contributes to reduction of the deficit by saving $2.5 billion in outlays over 3 years. at the same time. the compromise will maintain much of the agencys field structure and basic core of programs. sbas loan program for miity business enterprises. veterans and the handicapped will continue. as will important sources of longterm financing and venture capital and affordable management counseling and training. small business development centers. which provide valuable assistance to local businesses. are retained in the compromise plan. in rhode island the sbdc located at bryant college has proven successful in providing comprehensive small business management and technical assistance to the small business community.. its continued presence in rhode island will benefit the hundreds of businesses who utilize the consulting services and training programs offered. i hope my colleagues will join with me in supporting this compromise legislation.
. today i am proud to join my colleagues as a cosponsor of s. 8. this bill will grant the vietnam- veterans of america. inc.. a federal charter. this bill will entitle the vva to the benefits enjoyed by every other profit chartered service organization.. as a fully chartered corporation. the vva will  be able to adequately provide for the improvement of the conditions of vietnam veterans. and produce research materials that document the relationships between vietnam veterans and american society. as a result of this bill. the vva will also be empowered with the ability to financially assist vietnam veterans in need. along with their dependents and survivors. passage of this bill has been a priority for the vva for quite some time. it is also long overdue. vietnam veterans have gone through trying times. and have worked hard to: overcome the stigma attached.to their role as veterans of an unpopular war. recognition of the vva as a federally chartered corporation will go a long way toward making up the debt we owe our vietnam veterans.*
. i am pleased to support this legislation as modified by the committee amendment. to maintain the small business administration as a strong federal advocate for americas 14 million small businesses. this measure is virtually identical to the provisions included in the budget package the senate adopted in may. although the administration had proposed the termination of most sba programs. this compromise will achieve substantial budgetary savings while preserving the agency whose mission is to advise. assist. and champion the causes of small businesses. reducing the deficit will help to bring down interest rates. increase productivity and create a better climate for small businesses to prosper. the compromise provision on sba contributes to reduction of the deficit by saving $2.5 billion in outlays over 3 years. at the same time. the compromise will maintain much of the agencys field structure and basic core of programs. sbas loan program for miity business enterprises. veterans and the handicapped will continue. as will important sources of longterm financing and venture capital and affordable management counseling and training. small business development centers. which provide valuable assistance to local businesses. are retained in the compromise plan. in rhode island the sbdc located at bryant college has proven successful in providing comprehensive small business management and technical assistance to the small business community.. its continued presence in rhode island will benefit the hundreds of businesses who utilize the consulting services and training programs offered. i hope my colleagues will join with me in supporting this compromise legislation.
. today i am proud to join my colleagues as a cosponsor of s. 8. this bill will grant the vietnam- veterans of america. inc.. a federal charter. this bill will entitle the vva to the benefits enjoyed by every other profit chartered service organization.. as a fully chartered corporation. the vva will  be able to adequately provide for the improvement of the conditions of vietnam veterans. and produce research materials that document the relationships between vietnam veterans and american society. as a result of this bill. the vva will also be empowered with the ability to financially assist vietnam veterans in need. along with their dependents and survivors. passage of this bill has been a priority for the vva for quite some time. it is also long overdue. vietnam veterans have gone through trying times. and have worked hard to: overcome the stigma attached.to their role as veterans of an unpopular war. recognition of the vva as a federally chartered corporation will go a long way toward making up the debt we owe our vietnam veterans.*
. i wonder if the chair would be good egh to let me k when i have used 20 minutes of my time. the dollar amount is in this chart here. which is the second chart. we see how the total outlays in dollars. net government expenditures. began to go up. in 1980 it was a little less than $9 million. then up it went to $48 million in 1983-$90 million in 1984. this is an ironic twist. when we get into the government dealing in these agricultural products. there is an ironic twist here. so much honey was being forfeited to the ccc. as i pointed out here. this is practically all the honey being produced in the united states by any substantial producers. it was all going to the government. so what happened. imports started flowing into the country. there was a dramatic increase. in 1980 when they first started selling to the community credit corporation. the price was right. so what happened. in come the imports to take the place of all the honey that was going into storage. we can see it reached its peak in 1985 when some changes were made in the program. which i will briefly discuss. this predicament called for corrective action. that was the year that thensenator quayle had his amendment which would abandon price supports over a 3year period. but that was  adopted. it was adopted here. but it was jettisoned in conference by our conferees. so then the government. through its own people. said we will try to fix this. what they did was to lower the support of prices by 5 percent a year for the 1986 to 1990 crop. so far so good. but the law that they put through at that time also authorized the secretary to issue honey marketing loans. we are going to get bogged down with these agricultural terms. this is a byzantine area. but all i k is it ends up costing the taxpayers of the united states a ton of money. the new marketing loan system. which is in effect today. means that the producers can give up their honey as collateral at a certain set loan rate. they turn it in to the government at a fixed pricelet us say 56 cents a poundand. then they can wait and see. this is a heads we win. tails the government loses. proposal. heads the producers win. tails the government loses. they turn in their honey to the government at a collateral price at 56 cents a pound. let us say. they wait and see what they can get on the market. meanwhile it is costing the government 14 cents a pound just to store and handle the recording14 cents a pound. to put this into storage. the producer then waits to see whether to buy back their honey at a lower rate. they do  have to buy it back at 56 cents a pound. they could buy it back at a lower rate and resell it on the market. or forfeit. just leave it there and call it even. let me illustrate. you are a honey producer. you store your crop with the ccc. the commodity credit corporation. you receive a loan rate of 56 cents a pound. you then wait to see what the market will be like that year. by the way. it is expensive for you to store the honey. so you have the government store it. well. let us say it is a good year. you can get 56 cents a pound from your honey. but it is close. so you buy back our honey. that is pay off your loan to the ccc. but you do  buy it back at 56 cents a pound. you buy it back at that years set repayment level. say. 36 cents a pound. and you pay a minimal interest charge. so you sell it for 56 cents or get a loan for 56 cents from the government. then the price is lower. so you get it back and pay them 36 cents. that is considered a payoff of the loan. and if you can sell it for 38 cents for each year. you keep the money. how is that for a wonderful arrangement. with the adoption of this system. the forfeitures to the ccc ended. that is what we see here. in 1985. we see the forfeitures going down. they reached 105 million pounds in 1984 and then they gradually dropped. in 1988. they were down to 13 million pounds. my colleagues might say. "boy. this system is really working." the only trouble is. look over here at what it is costing the federal government. this is the net cost. in 1988. even though the commodity credit corporation only has 13 million pounds. the problem has  been solved because the cost to the government is up to $100 million that particular year. it is true that imports have slowed dramatically. i show that in my other chart and people say. that is pretty good. and that is nice. but meanwhile. look at the cost. so while we try to fix one thing. we are causing a problem in aher area. before 1985. our costs lay tribute to the fact we had to buy millions of pounds of honey. today our costs lie in the fact we take a loss. about 20 cents a pound. when we redeem the loans with the honey program participants. let us run over the figures. what is this costing. i am  going to suggest to anybody here that if we end price supports for honey. the federal deficit is going to be solved. of course . but what i do say to my colleagues is a little bit here. a little bit here. and we can reduce federal expenditures. in 1988. the federal government spent $100 million on this program. as i show. in 1989. they spent $42 million. the cost this year are  going to be $42 million. according to cbo. they are going to bounce up to $68 million dollars. over the past 5 years. the program has cost $385 million in total. i k that the distinguished presiding officer is interested in education. that was long his hallmark while he was gover of the great state of th carolina. he might be interested to k that what we have spent on price supports for honey over the past 5 years would have permitted in each of those years 27.000 children to be enrolled in head start. to me that is a pretty good investment. i would rather have 27.000 children in each of the past 5 years enrolled in head start than i would be helping a very few honey producers make a lot of money from the federal government. let us go in to see who we are helping under this program. hing particular else touches the hearts of senators more than helping a family farmer. some might say. "well. it may be expensive. but. by golly. we are doing something for the poor family farmer in america. is that so. let us look. the gao did a report on this whole subject of price supports for honey in 1985. which has subsequently been updated. what did they show. the figures are the same today. they showed that there are 212.000 beekeepers in the united states of america. those beekeepers fell into three categories: the hobbyists. that is one who owns 1 to 25 colonies of bees. there are 200.000 of those. so that leaves 12.000 who are  hobbyists. then you have your parttime beekeeper who has 25. perhaps up to 299 colonies. there are 10.000 of these part timers. so there are 200.000 of the hobbyists. and 10.000 of the part timers. so that is 210.000 out of the 212.000. finally. there are the commercial beekeepers who own 300 or more colonies and they number about 2.000 individuals or farms. so out of the grand total of 212.000. 99 percent of them do  participate in this program. one percent of all american beekeepers are in the program. so we are  spending $42 million or $100 million to take care of 212.000 beekeepers. we are spending that amount on 2.100 beekeepers. i might e that of that group. 1 percent. in other words. 1 percent of 1 percent. or onetenth of 1 percent of all the beekeepers in the united states are getting the lions share of the federal moneys.  we are right down to where the rubber hits the road. this program is helping about 2 dozen beekeepers in the united states of america onetenth of i percent of all beekeepers. in 1984. five producersfive producers. and i hope those who oppose this amendment are listeningfive producers. each received federal loans ranging from $612.000 to $912.000. in 1987. during our consideration of the emergency supplemental bill. it was pointed out on this floor that 20 beekeepers would be getting $6 million in benefits. that is family farmer. that is poor fellow we are trying to help keep body and soul together down at the old 40acre homestead. we actually enacted. but unfortunately it was later repealed in the reconciliation bill. that farmer would get more than $250.000. we put that into law. but that was deleted in the 1987 reconciliation act by some slight of hand which most who were involved with this were  aware of. there are lobbying groups involved with this subject. there are two of them. and perhaps some our colleagues have been visited by them: the american honey producers association or the american beekeeping federation. my colleagues might think. these are representing all the beekeepers in the united states of america. the american honey producers association has a budget of $100.000 and a membership of how many. there are 210.000 beekeepers. how many belong to the american honey producers association out of the 210.000 beekeepers. i ask. the answer is 600.  .6.000. and  60.000. six hundred.  let us look at the other organization. i have just referred to the american honey producers association.  look at the american beekeeping federation.
. i want to make a point that was brought home to me at a conference i went to earlier this year. what is attempting to be achieved in russia at the same time. in russia. they are going through a depression. it is more than a recession. it is a depression. they are trying to convert their ecoy from a controlled state ecoy to a free market ecoy. they are seeing their nation split up. with great sections of it going .off in separate directions from the former u.s.s.r. to what is  kn as russia. they are attempting to achieve a democracy from an autocratic regime. and they are going through a dramatic downsizing of their military. so those are five monstrous changes. any one of which is egh to wrench a country around. indeed. in our country. we are just going through two of those. and we are finding it dramatic. we are going through a recession and through a downsizing of our military. but in russia they are doing all five simultaneously. so wonder they are having difficulties. challenges. and troubles. wonder they need some assistance. i think it is right and just that the united states come forward at this particular time. i thank the chair.
. the biggest problem besetting small businesses today is the lack of available credit. i believe that the sba. local banks. and other lenders should be in the business of investing in people and communities. and that federal policies should promote the flow of capital to small business community. i hope this legislation will help ease the credit crunch and increase lending to the small businesses. that will then use that capital to create jobs and get our ecoy moving again. i urge my colleagues to take a good look at this legislation. and i welcome their cosponsorship.o by mr. glenn (for himself and mr. hatc):
i thank the chairman very much. i k the senator from massachusetts is waiting. this is a problem of which i k the senator from michigan is very much aware and of which the senator from new york is very much aware. it istrue that we are dealing with a mammoth measure which resulted from lack of proper regulation. but we all recognize the pendulum can swing too far the other way. likewise. so if we can free up some of this credit. it would be a marvelous thing for job creation in our country because as every one of us ks we are all preaching the gospel that jobs are created by small businesses and if small business can have access to more credit from their most likely credit giver. namely the small banks. the whole country would be a lot better off. i thank the chair.
. the problems created by these new rules are  concentrated just in my state or the theast. i am aware of similar problems across the country. my sense of the senate resolution simply calls on the internal revenue service to ensure that the regulations minimize ecoic hardship. market distortions and supply shortages. i hope my colleagues will support this amendment.
. the countrys small business men and women can wait until next year. by failing to act . we are imposing a substantial tax increase on them. if left to next year. it is unlikely that we will be able to act before the due date for filing 1994 returns. action  is essential. and i urge my colleagues to support this legislation.o by mr. campbell (for himself. mr. iye: and mr. mccain) (by request):
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on taxation and irs oversight of the committee on finance be permitted to meet on monday. june 19. 1995. beginning at 2 p.m. in room sd215. to conduct a hearing on s corporation reform and the home office deduction.
. i share the senator from nevadas concern that programs authorized under this bill do  duplicate existing programs administered by the department of commerce. however. a larger reorganization question is being raised by the senator from nevada that can be iged. title ii of h.r. 11445 authorizes $15 million for the development of small business development centers. these centers would provide a wide range of management and technical assistance to all small businesses. regardless of their race. ethnic origin. or sex of the owners and operators of the business. the senate appropriations subcommittee of state. justice. commerce. and related agencies. of which i am ranking miity member. recently completed action on both the sba and ombe budgets for fiscal year 1979. in its report language. the committee stated: the committee strongly supports assistance to miity business as witnesses by our recommendation for the small business administration. however. ombe has never had legislative authority and the testimony at the hearing was weak and by means persuasive of the role of this organization. the committee urges the office of management and budget to consider merger of ombe into sbas program of assistance to miity businesses so that a unified program will be available for consideration in the 1980 budget review. i believe the current situation is confused. federal assistance to miity businesses lacks direction and purpose. the appropriate committee should carefully review this situation and decide whether any reorganization plan should be enacted. i. therefore. support the amendment of the senator from nevada. but i think there is a larger question here. hopefully the amendment will give us at least a part of the answer to that larger question.
. i support the committee amendments to h.r. these amendments clarify existing law concerning sbas guarantee of flnancings made to small businesses for the planning. design or installation of pollution control facilities. this clarification is necessary to revitalize the sbas pollution control lending program which is at this time moribund. a necessary amendment to section 502 of the small business investment act is also offered. pursuant to this section. sba is authorized to make loans to local development companies. or ldgs. to finance plant construction. conversion or expansion. including the acquisition of land. the proceeds of the loans to the ldc are to be used to assist small businesses in an attempt to spur the ecoic growth of the community. the establishment. modernization and expansion of a small business beneficiary have been determined to aid the communitys ecoic growth by providing employment opportunities. tax base and similar ecoic benefits. earlier this year i sent a letter to the mayors of our nations 100 largest cities to elicit their comments on how the sba could be made more effective in encouraging urban ecoic growth and development. numerous responses indicated that the local development company program under section 502 had tremendous potential in accomplishing this goal. this amendment will help the local development comnanies in their attempts to benefit small businesses and foster urban ecoic development. the final amendment assures that the program for management and technical assistance to businesses owned by socially and ecoically disadvantaged individuals authorized by chapter 2 of title ii of this bill will  duplicate programs administered by the department of commerce. as i indicated earlier. the mere act of providing procurement contracts to such businesses does  insure their success. thus. this bill calls for an improved management and technical assistance program. the necessity of the creation of this program attests to the fact that the programs administered through the department of commerces office of miity business enterprise have  been very effective in aiding miity small businesses. the senate appropriations subcommittee of state. justice. commerce and related agencies. of which i am ranking miity member. recently completed action on both the sba and ombe budgets for fiscal year 1979. in its report language. the committee stated: the committee strongly supports assistance to miity business as witnessed by our recommendation for the small business administration. however. ombe has never had legislative authority and the testimony at the hearing was weak and by means persuasive of the role of this organization. the committee urges the office of management and budget to consider merger of ombe into sbas program of assistance to miity businesses so that a unified program will be available for consideration in the 1980 budget review. there is little doubt that the current situation is confused. federal assistance to miity businesses lacks direction and purpose. jurisdictional battles do  solve this problem. this situation must be carefully reviewed in the very near future. and a coherent plan of attack must be developed.
. i am pleased to join senator nelson in introducing this legislation to amend the internal revenue code of 1954 to provide for a deferral of tax on capital gains realized on an investment in a small business where the gain is reinvested in aher eligible small enterprise. this bill will help solve the critical problem of providing equity capital for americas small businesses. the capital formation problem received a great deal of attention in the 95th congress and many salutary measures were adopted. all businesses. large and small. will benefit from the significant reduction in the effective tax rate on longterm capital gains. the new graduated corporate income tax rate. which eliminates the sudden jump in tax brackets from 22 to 48 percent at the $50.000 income level. will increase the incentive to finance a corporations capital needs through operations. additionally. the increase in the limit under which regulation a offerings may be made will enable small businesses to raise a greater amount of capital while taking advantage of the reduced costs associated with these offerings. although these measures will help small businesses. more must be done to insure that small businesses are able to obtain the equity financing necessary to enable them to grow and provide jobs. today. i joined with a number of our colleagues in reintroducing the small business investment incentive act. this legislation would provide an investor with a credit against tax of 10 percent of the first $7.500or $15.000 in the case of a joint returninvested in corporations with a net equity of less than $25 million. the small business preservation act which we are introducing today. which complements the small business investment incentive act. provides an additional incentive for equity investments in small enterprises. pursuant to this act. the tax on a gain realized on the liquidation of an investment in a small business with a net worth of $25 million would be deferred provided the gain is reinvested within 18 months in aher eligible small concern. alan greenspan. former chairman of the council of ecoic advisers. in testimony before the select committee on small business characterized the deferral concept as "an excellent idea. and one which would enhance the capacity of small business to expand on its capital base which has been unduly retarded." i strongly urge my colleagues to join in the support of the small business preservation act which will help open the capital markets for our nations small businesses.*
. the distinguished senator from mississippi has good reason to offer this amendment. the residents of his state have suffered terribly as the result of flooding which occurred earlier this spring. presently. these disaster victims are awaiting passage of this supplemental appropriation which will provide the funds for disaster loans to cover their extreme loss. without the stennis amendment. or without passage of the conference report on s. 918. these victims will be paying an interest rate of 7% percent on those loans. two days of conference have already taken place on s. 918. i am hopeful the current logjam can be broken. members of the senate small business committee are continuing negotiations with the house small business committee and the house agriculture committee in an attempt to resolve the outstanding conference issues and to file the report on s. 918 as expeditiously as possible. the small business committee has worked diligently. and i believe the senate should defer to the committee with legislative jurisdiction. i would also point out to my colleagues that the reason we are in this bind is the failure to have enactment of the authorization bill passed by both houses last year. in effect. this has caused the rates to rise to the level where they are  instead of the 3 percent level supported by the senator from mississippi. unless there is pressure brought to bear on the conference. or at this juncture on the conferees. we are going to be in the same position as before without an authorization since last years authorization bill was vetoed. the interest rate issue is one of the many elements that is involved in a very comprehensive bill. because each one of those elements obviously being on the mind of the various conferees. each element has the ability to be used to exert pressure on aher. to withdraw this particular item from the conference. i think. will guarantee the result that we will  arrive at an agreement on the conference report. i hope we would  abandon the proper parliamentary procedures. the proper jurisdictional procedures. in what seems to be. and rightfully is. a proper move on behalf of those in need. rather. we should do so the correct way. i believe in the propriety of a lower interest rate to help disaster victims. and the 3 percent rate is fine. but i think it should be arrived at through the mal procedural manner. what the senator from mississippi is attempting to do here is clearly outside of the mal course of procedure and. therefore. as i say. at the appropriate time i will raise a point of order in objection to the amendment.
. the sbpd would have the status of a debt security with a stated rate of interest. but would also provide an inducement for the investor by returning to him a share of the companys earnings during the period the sbpd is outstanding. because the sbpd would provide for a specific redemption date. the issuing company would effectively be paying a premium for the use of the capital. but only for the period of use.
. the conference agreement basically retains an amendment offered by senator nunn and myself to increase sbas authority to guarantee debentures issued by local and state development companies. these development companies can play an important role in the revitalization of the small business sector. especially in urban areas. while the original amendment increased this guarantee authority from $100 to $400 million. the conference agreement includes $250 million for development company guarantees. a significant increase over the amount originally allowed in the bill. the chairman is to be commended for an exceptional job. his persistence and close attention were responsible for total spending in the bill to be below our budget allocation.
. what would be the effect of such a wholesale reduction. if approved it would basically and fundamentally alter the structure and mission of the small business administration without the benefit of thorough review and thoughtful judgments concerning the merits and worthiness of the programs which would be eliminated. if the budget committee instruction prevails in its current form. the small business committee will have choice as to where it must cut. for it is only through the elimination of direct loans that savings of the magnitude endorsed by the budget committee can be achieved. in essence. budget committee assumptions would be binding on our committee and on sba. as chairman of the committee on small business. i have pledged publicly to pursue vigorous oversight of the sba during this session of congress. i welcome this opportunity which is the duty and responsibility of the committee on small business to perform. however. if the instruction as contained in this resolution is agreed to. the oversight process. the considered judgments necessary to improve the programs and performance of the sba. will
 and the budget committee have proposed sweeping changes in the disaster loans but also would change the eligibility criteria and the amount of lois which could be covered by government loans. taking such sweeping action without the benefit of time to examine the effect on disaster victims is of concern to me. if the senator desires. i would be more than willing to schedule hearings in the small business commttee to examine the effect of these sweeping changes on homeowners and businesses.
. i thank the distinguished senator from california for his very perceptive remarks in relation to the amendment he has presented. by using taxexempt. sba guaranteed pollution control revenue bonds. sba cooperates with commercial and investment banks and local and state authorities to provide access to longterm. below market financing to eligible small businesses in the same manner that large corporations obtain their financing for pollution facilities. this program has been one of seas most successful and problemfree programs. since its inception. sea guaranteed over $238.000.000 in principal amount of obligations. for over 200 small companies. employing nearly 20.000 people. financing for pollution abatement facilities has occurred in 25 states with more participating states projected in the future. when this program was enacted in 1976. a revolving fund capitalized at $15.000.000 was created. fees charged borrowers for processing and guaranteeing the bonds are paid into the fund. liabilities incurred through default would be paid out of that fund. to date. through collection of guarantees and other fees of over $16.000.000. this fund has more than doubled to approximately $31.000.000. without further appropriations required from congress. in addition. through investment of the moneys in the revolving fund. sba has earned an additional $738.000 during the first 6 months of fiscal year 1981 for the government. during the life of the program. only two defaults have occurred which according to cbo and sba. will  result in any ultimate loss to the government. i commend my colleague from california for his amendment. and. on the part of the majority. i am delighted to accept it.
. this amendment has been the end product of months of consultation between the distinguished chairman of the banking committee. senator garn and the distinguished senator from iowa . and i think it clearly brings into focus what is needed  on the federal reserve board in the sense of perspective. and i hope my colleagues will support the substitute amendment. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. i wish to annce that on february 23. 1982. at 9:30 a.m. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. the senate small business committee will conduct a hearing to review the budget for the small business administration for fiscal year 1983. for further information contact mike haynes. 2245175. senator weicker will chair.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on urban and rural ecoic development has postponed until further ice its april 20. 1983. hearing on proposals to foster jobs creation through small business.
the senator is correct. there is $130 million in this bill to be made available to the corporation in fiscal year 1986. this is the same amount as was provided in last. years bill. and it is the authorization ceiling as well.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on urban and rural ecoic development has postponed until further ice its april 20. 1983. hearing on proposals to foster jobs creation through small business.
the senator is correct. there is $130 million in this bill to be made available to the corporation in fiscal year 1986. this is the same amount as was provided in last. years bill. and it is the authorization ceiling as well.
 and chief financial officer. made the following statement illustrating the very tangible way that cray has been able to repay the government for its investment. through the success of cray research. inc.. the american taxpayer has realized a direct revenue gain of over $100 million over the last seven years. crays total employment has grown to over two thousand people with a total payroll of over $60 million per year. despite the companys strength today. however. the company came close to failing in 1975 due to a lack of sufficient capital. at that time. emergency venture capital was raised from several companies. the majority of which were funded by the small business investment company (sbic) program. a number of experts familiar with both the specific case and the difficult state of the venture capital markets in 1975 agree that the sbic funding was a "make or break. component of the financing. put aher way. the taxpayers investment of less than $500 since 1975. cray research has already contributed over $100 million in total tax revenues and has generated over two thousand jobs.  of the american association of miity enterprise small business investment companies (aamesbic] issued this strong statement refuting mr. stockmans claim: first. i would like to point out that. contrary to mr. stockmans statement. the mesbic program serves a very welldocumented public policy objective. mesbics are mandated to invest "solely in small business concerns which will contribute to a well balanced national ecoy by facilitating ownership in such concerns by persons whose participation in the free enterprise system is hampered because of social or ecoic disadvantages." as mr. stockman himself admitted in his testimony. in some cases public interest and social policy gains outweigh the importance of pure market efficiency. mr. burns responded to ombs claims that sba programs reduce marketplace efficiency. job creation. and ecoic growth by presenting these impressive mesbic statistics: since 1976. the mesbic industry has invested over $391 million in 4.772 small business concerns. mesbic investments since 1977 have helped to create or maintain over 75.000 jobs. more importantly in terms of the budget. mesbic investments since 1978 have generated federal and state tax revenues of approximately $487 million. when combined with the unemployment wages saved through mesbic job generation. the total benefit over the seven year period is approximately $886 million. in looking at the annual cost to the government of administering the mesbic program. the excess government revenue over costs is well over $150 million. edward lewis. publisher and chief executive officer of essence communications. inc.. told the committee how his firm got its start with help from the mesbic program: clarence smith and i founded essence back in 1970 with startup financing from mesbics and other sources. like many new ventures. we started with sound and exciting ideasgot the product off to a good startbut soon began to feel our financial foundations wobbling. in 1973 our threeyearold brainchild had 25 employees. sales of $1.500.000 and losses so heavy that i still shudder to remember. part of our startup financing had come from the mesbic industry. and while most investors in a situation like ours would move quickly to cut their losses. our venture capital investors stayed for the long haul. in fact. these mesbic executives worked the numbers carefullyfrom operating costs to market potentialand determined that essence had the growth and profitability potential to warrent a large financial commitment than before. five mesbics syndicated an investment in essence of over $1 million. * * * essence magazine. the leading magazine for black women.  has a circulation of 800.000 and advertising revenues of $11.000.000 * * the company employs 90 people. and has revenues of $20.000.000. * * * our projections for next year are $25.000.000 in revenue and profits will be substantial. in addition to the fine publication we have created. the market we serve. the excellent women and men we employ. the taxes we pay and the profits we enjoy. essence had repaid $800.000 to our mesbic investors who have paid back their loans along with dividends to the small business administration. mr. lewis credits the success of essence to several key factors. including mesbics longterm involvement. he states: * * * just as important as the product. market and management. our mesbic investors were committed to essences success and tenacious about getting there. they believed the product was important to the black market. and they saw a winner. the mesbics were there to stay. mr. lewis continued by adding his voice to the view expressed by so many that abolishing the sba is an illconceived attempt at bringing down the deficit. he said. budget cutters most often couch the debate in terms of value received for use of the taxpayers dollars. the deficit must go down and i think that this measure of value is a valid one. unfortunately. however. adversarial rather than problem solving approaches to our shared problem lead to extraordinarily narr6w definitions of value. judgments of how well sba spends tax dollarsshould be measured in terms of jobs created. and the consequent reduction of dependence on government assistance. value should also be measured in terms of businesses created that become part of community ecoic infrastructures. and the amount of payroll and income taxes these businesses pay to local. state and federal governments. sbics and mesbics are publicprivate partnerships helping scores of aspiring entrepreneurs to realize their dreams. through these program avenues. the government has been meeting the commitments of eager inators. long on ideas and short of ready cash. and has become a silent partner in important technical advancements. job generation. and a prospering ecoy. if american entrepreneurship. our tax rolls. employment opportunities. and the ecoy are to continue to flourish. these programs must be maintained. tomorrow. i will continue with an overview of the sbas 7(a) loan guarantee program.
 of chemplate industries. inc.. chicago. il. received two sbaguaranteed loans. the first providing startup capital. the second for expansion dollars. her story beautifully illustrates a fact. wellstated by mayor johnson. that "the public investment in small business development is tiny compared to tax revenues generated from the expansion of businesses and new employment. the 503 program is an example of sound investment by both private and public sectors in ecoic development." ms. strauss explained. with regard to the expansion loan she sought. that "the only source of longterm funds was. once again. the sba." she provided the following details of her experience: our bank contacted greater metropolitan development corporation [gmcdci and together they put together a 503 loan package for my company administratively. the sba did work other than to approve the package at a loan committee meeting. we were able to receive 15year financing for a large portion of the $1.200.000 needed to purchase capital equipment which will add up to 15 new jobs and increase our sales from $4.000.000/year to $7.000.000/year. this increase in sales and personnel will once again generate more than egh revenues in the forms of payroll and corporate income taxes to repay the government for its time and effort. without the 503 loan program chemplate would  have been able to afford to attempt this major expansion. we had other competitive. longterm source of funds available. the 503 program is an essential component in the current efforts to revitalize americas cities and rural communities. mayor houston made a powerful case for continuing 503 and the sba. he stated: youve probably heard about the success stories of this program. there have been many. the program also represents one of the most flexible financing programs available. in my community alone. the 503 program has been instrumental in financing small businesses involved in agriculture. retailing. manufacturing. construction and the service industry. springfields eight approved projects and two pending business expansions will mean 200 new jobs for my communityjobs which would  have occurred without the small business administration. currently. my office. and other city offices across our country work handinhand with the sba putting together successful development projects. these are  weak projects which are doomed to failas many people characterize sba loans. instead. they are strong projects destined to succeed. and to create new jobs. * * * it is evident that the sba and its financing programs have been responsible for creating thousands of jobs within our cities today that might  have been created for several yearsif ever. eliminating the sba  would deal a significant blow to americas small businesses. it would also have a devastating effect on the continued ecoic recovery and revitalization of our cities. the 503 program has proven to be one of the sbas great successes. few government programs have contributed so heartily and tangibly to our nations ecoic recovery. and 503 has helped to revitalize our cities and rural areas by introducing new capital into local ecoies. boosting tax rolls. creating substantial numbers of new jobs. and increasing business ownership and expansion opportunities. the powerful. positive impact of this program has been felt across america. clearly showing that 503 merits continuance. i will continue throughout the week to highlight testimony presented during hearings before the committee. as well as discussions entered into. regarding important sba functions including venture capital programs. management assistance. guaranteed lending. miity assistance. and advocacy.e
. as many of my colleagues k. for the past several months various members of the small business committee have been holding field hearings on the subject of tax reform and the effect of reform on small businesses. it is clear after this first round of hearings that one of the most important concerns that small businesses have is whether the current graduated corporate tax rate will be retained in the various tax reform proposals that congress will consider. it is. in fact. a universal feelingamong small business persons that have appeared at these hearings that the graduated corporate rates have been of incalculable benefit in terms of their ability to retain the capital they need to grow. as chairman of the senate small business committee. i have placed the need for graduated corporate rates that reflect the special needs of small businesses high on my legislative agenda. the importance of these rates is  just for the survival of small businesses. however. but for the ecoy as a whole since it is small businesses that generate the great majority of new jobs in this country. fortunately. over the past few years those of us who recognize the importance of the graduated rates for small businesses have been successful in getting legislation passed that preserves. and refines. the tax rates that apply to small businesses. one of the more important elements of the 1981 ecoic recovery tax act [erta]. for example. was a provision that reduced the lowest corporate tax rate from 17 percent to 15 percent. this amendment. which was offered by senator nunn and myself. and which passed the senate by a vote of 92 to 0. may have been one of the reasons that small businesses were able to create all of the net new jobs during the 198283 recession. in addition to the 1981 amendment. a provision was added to the deficit reduction act of 1984 that was designed to ensure that a greater amount of the benefits of the lower rate enacted in 1981 would accrue to small businesses. as a means of achieving this end. the provision added a surtax on all corporate taxable income over $1 million. the intended effect of the provision is spelled out in the conference report that accompanied the bill: the graduated corporate rate was added in 1978 to ease the burden on small business. however. large corporations as well as small corporations. are entitled to these benefits. congress believes that large corporations should  be able to take advantage of this small business provision. therefore. the benefits of graduated rates are generally eliminated for any corporation with large income. today. the special and appropriate tax treatment that has been carefully crafted for small businesses over the last decade is in danger of being eliminated. furthermore. what should  be lost in all of this discussion of tax reform. is that much more needs to be done today to correct the current discrimination against small businesses even with a graduated corporate rate. fortunately. we have before us a resolution that expresses these sentiments quite forcefully. stating that. " * * * it is the sense of congress that the retention of the graduated corporate tax rates is essential to the continued viability of the small business community ** *." for the benefit of my colleagues who are wondering why this resolution is offered at this time. i would like to point out that the treasury department is in the process of rewriting their earlier proposal keeping in mind the concerns expressed about many provisons. iricludihg the possibility of a single corporate tax rate. that was a part of their earlier draft. thus. while there is still some internal debate within the administration about the wisdom of eliminating graduated corporate rates. we should make every effort to demonstrate the importance 6f these rates to the nations small businesses and our ecoy as a whole. i think this resolution sends a clear and convincing signal to the administration. and anyone interested in tax reform. that retention of the current graduated corporate tax rates is indispensable to the health and welfare of our nations small businesses. and to our ecoy as a whole. i commend my colleagues. senator armstrong and senator baucus. for introducing this resolution and i urge the rest of my colleagues to support its passage at the earliest possible time.e
. this amendment achieves substantial savings while at the same time preserving the sba and its essential credit and management assistance programs. by adopting this amendment. the senate will be addressing the needs of our small business sector and attempting to meet our deficit reduction goals. i urge the senate to support this fiscally responsible approach.
. this amendment achieves substantial savings of $2.5 billion in the sba budget over the next 3 years. while at the same time preserves the sba credit programs go critical to our nations small businesses. sbas management assistance network which operates through small business development centers [sbdcsj. service corps of retired executives [score]. and small business institute [sbis] will also continue to exist and provide affordable counseling and training to millions of small businesses throughout the united states. also. sbas field structure. advocacy. procurement assistance. and special programs designed to assist women entrepreneurs. veterans. and miity businesses will remain. i believe it to be a fair compromise which achieves significant savings. responds effectively to our serious budget deficit problem. and does so in a way that allows the agency to respond to the diverse needs of the small business community.e
. this amendment achieves substantial savings of $2.5 billion in the sba budget over the next 3 years. while at the same time preserves the sba credit programs so critical to our nations small businesses. sbas management assistance network which operates through small business development centers [sbdcs]. service corps of retired executives [score] and small business institute [sbis] will also continue to exist and provide affordable counseling and training to millions of small businesses throughout the united states. also. sbas field structure. advocacy. procurement assistance and special programs designed to assist women entrepreneurs. veterans and miity businesses will remain. i believe it to be a fair compromise which achieves significant savings. responds effectively to our serious budget deficit problem and does so in a way that allows the agency to respond to the diverse needs of the small business community. gt4 9
. in summary. this amendment achieves substantial savings of $2.5 billion in the sba budget over the next 3 years. while at the same time preserves the sba credit programs so critical to our nations small business. sbas management assistance network which operates through small business development centers [sbdcs]. service corps of retired executives [score). and small business institutes [sbis] will also continue to exist and provide affordable counseling and training to millions of small businesses throughout the united states. also. sbas field structure. advocacy. procurement assistance. and special programs designed to assist women entrepreneurs. veterans. and miity businesses will remain. i believe it to be a fair compromise which achieves significant savings. responds effectively to our serious budget deficit problem. and does so in a way that allows the agency to respond to the diverse needs of the small business community.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee hearing on february 6. 1986. on the impact of tax reform and simplification proposals on small business. the hearing will commence at 9:30 a.m. in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call bill langdon or steve williams of the committee staff at 2245175.
. the key elements of the weickerbumpers proposal are as follows: retain sba as an independent agency with all of its core of financial. management. and procurement assistance programs intact. maintain the loan portfolio for mal collection. eliminate all direct loans except for ecoic opportunity. mesbics. handicapped and veterans loan programs. and freeze those programs at the i fiscal year 1986 appropriated levels. eliminate the physical disaster program. eliminate farmers eligibility for sba disaster loan assistance for disasters declared after september 30. 1985. require small business investment companies to sell their debentures in the private capital markets. require all 503 certified development company debentures be sold to the private capital markets by fiscal year 1988. maintain guarantee loan programs at current services levels. increase the fee for 7(a) borrowers from 1 to 2 percent and set the maximum guarantee for loans over $155.000 at 85 percent. and for loans under $155.000 require a 90percent guarantee. maintain salaries and expenses at the cbo current services levels. according to the congressional budget office. our proposal would achieve $2.88 billion of outlay savings. over 3 years and would reduce sbas outlays by morg than 70 percent by fiscal year 1989. small businesses lead the nation in job creation. ination and research. and productivity. such a vital segment of our ecoy deserves to have a strong independent agency in the federal government to serve its interests. the small business administration is the only federal agency whose sole mission has been to serve small businesses. and small business organizations unanimously support its continuance as an independent agency. i ask that the text of the small business organizations statement be printed in the record. the text follows: on behalf of the following organizations which constitute the breadth and depth of the small business community we strongly encourage the committee on the budget to adopt the bipartisan budget recommendations on the small business administration as put forth by the senate committee on small business in its letter to the committee on the budget. march 5. 1986. the small business committees proposal represents dramatic and substantial savings. a significant contribution to deficit reduction. once again small business is willing to stand up and lead the fight for reductions. we will  support. however. the virtual elimination of the agency as proposed in the administrations budget proposal. the sba has played a vital role in creating an environment for the growth and expansion of small business and it is clear to all what small business has meant to job creation efforts. preserving the independence on sba and preserving the strength and vitality of small business are syymous. the committee on small business proposal would achieve savings of $532 million in 1987.. it reduces the budget by over 70 percent over three years. it emphasizes the guaranteed loan program. eliminates most direct lending and the  physical disaster loan program. but maintains the sba as an independent agency with its most productive programs such advocacy. management assistance. procurement assistance. and the field operations intact. we must emphasize the unanimity among the small business community on this issue. we hope you will adopt the senate small business committees proposal as the best way to meet deficit reduction concerns and to address the needs of small business.
as i understand it. senate concurrent resolution 120 would further require the small business committee to come up with an additional $856 million of outlay savings for fiscal years 198789. through program changes or eliminations.
. first i commend the candor displayed by the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. senator packwood. and that of the ranking democratic member of the finance committee. senator bradley. for indeed they state it very clearly one of the two reasons why someone should vote against this amendment. there are only two reasons. one. clearly enunciated by the distinguished chairman of the finance committee. if this tax bill were to pass. then indeed this oil and gas exception had to be part of it in the commimttee and probably also on the floor. so if indeed that reason is so. fair egh. fair egh. the second reason those senators representing oil and gas states quite properly and very articulately presented their arguments on behalf of industries within their state. or argument. and supported it with sound and good fact. . why should you vote for the amendment. first of all. just so my good friend from oklahoma has misapprehensions. and we have been good friends. i feel i have my credibility in this area  on the basis of the fact i chair the small business committee. but 6 years while we went through the decontrol fight. for 6 years while the oil and gas states profited mightily. i kept on siding with them on decontrolling prices. feeling in the long run it would be in the best interest of my constituency. and indeed i was right and it has been in their best interest. but those were a very disagreeable 6 years. the fact is. and i have heard the saudis criticized for the problem that exists today. excuse the pun. you rode the tiger. you rode lhim up and the tiger is longer up. he is coming down. you got onto him and you can get off of him. ody wishes anybody unemployment in any of our states. but the fact also is that there are broad national policies to be achieved which again in the long. as i tried to teach the people in the state of connecticut during the decontrol battle. in the long run will benefit all of us. and one of those great principles is fairness in our tax code. you cite those of you who represent oil and gas states the element of risk and properly so. i indicated earlier i chair the small business committee. and in this bill you devastated the venture capital available for small business by eliminating the capital gains differential. by eliminating that differential there will be venture capital out there for small businesses to starl .everybody agrees with that. you have dried up the pool of available capital for small business to start up in the united states by virtue of provisions of this code and eliminating the differential. i disagree with that. many small businesses who have hing to do with oil or gas or real estate disagree with that. but in the interest of fairness. in the interest of fairness. everybody agrees ok. as long as my neighbor is taking it on the chin i will take it on the chin. so let us  mislead each other on the element of risk. whatever additional rewards were specialized rewards in the past. we said the lower rates are there in order to supply more money. make more capital available. but this as indeed it is quoted in the statute itself presented to the body is over and beyond that. it is over and beyond that. it is. as the chairman said. an exception. this is in the section called tax shelters and it discusses those passive activities and then exception for working interest in oil and gas property. it is an exception pure and simple. properly so for those who come from oil and gas states. properly so for those who want to see an overall tax bill. but  properly so in terms of what is a tax bill in a bill that calls for a radical restructuring on the basis of fairness and on the basis of simplification. i have heard the national security argument used on oil. i understood that argument as i called for decontrol. i understand it today as i want to see the 55mile per hour speed limit kept in place. as i think we ought to continue our conservation efforts. as we ought to go ahead and concentrate on more fuel efficient engines and smaller cars. i understand all of that. but what is involved with this exception has hing to do with national security. it has to do with the oil that is in the ground. and as was properly stated by the distinguished senator from arizona when the price goes up the exception does  go away. indeed. the oil is there today if anybody wants to pump it. do they want to pump it. oh.  they will plug the wells and go ahead and cap until the price goes up. the provision in this code. the one that i oppose. called for a retroactive penalizing of these various interests. of these investments. of these various shelters. what could be more unfair than that. someone who has already invested their money and the rules are going to be changed in the middle of the game so that they lose that incentive. what could be more unfair than eliminating the incentive to give many small businesses all over this nation the opportunity to start and to grow and to thrive. and let us  be misled by these little independents. you are talking about corporations that are in the billions. small. sure compared to those in the top of the fortune 500 but huge in relationship to businesses in every other field of endeavor. if indeed we are  going to be vulnerable to opec. i will tell you what we ought to do. and this will be backed by the oil and gas industry. go ahead and let us put a tax on gasoline. let us go ahead and do that. there is a conservative measure and there is a tax that goes to the benefit of the whole country. use it to reduce the deficit. just as this amendment. as you e. comes to you.  to spend the money on something else. but strictly to go ahead and eliminate the exception and reduce the deficit. the distinguished chairman of the budget committee stood here and said we need additional revenues. here you have them right here. to reduce the deficit.  asking you to take it from the oil states and give it to any other endeavor or section of the country. but take it to reduce the deficit and put our imprimatur as a body on the concept of fairness. but there are exceptions. whether it is for oil. real estate. christmas trees. go ahead. as industries. everybody is going to be treated the same. that is the issue. it is  national security. maybe the issue is whether or  we can pass this tax bill. that is a matter of political clout. and i suspect i am going to get rolled on this amendment. by the time you are through with those who want to see a tax bill pass and those who come from the oiland gasproducing states. all of a sudden the issue of fairness. which is most dear to the little man. gets lost just as it is lost in this bill to small business. yet. i have  heard small business complaining. they said. "we .vill take our lumps." but i suspect when they see what is going to go on here this aftern they will wonder why is  the mom and pop store just as important as the driller and indeed how many americans are out there involved in this kind of an investment. this is hing that benefits the individual american but it again underlines the point of clout. monetary clout. time and again i have heard the phrase used. "well. it is a bad idea whose time has .ome." or "we have to have it if we are going to pass the bill." how refreshing it would be to see something clear this place that did it on its own merits. i .hope that the motion to table will be defeated. that we will establish fairness for everyone in this nation. that we agree when it comes to taxes there are exceptions in terms of the matter that sets before us anyway so that at least for a year or so. for a year or so. what we pass has credibility. what we say has the truth behind us. rather than to come out of the starting gate yelling "fairness" and holding tip the sign of fairness in the right hand while we deal out the exceptions with the left hand.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committee will hold a full committee markup on thursday. july 24. 1986. to consider legislation authorizing the sale of certain small business administration loans in order to meet the reconciliation instruction as imposed by senate concurrent resolution 120. the concurrent resolution of the budget for fiscal year 1987. the markup will commence at 10 a.m. and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please call bob wilson. chief counsel of the committee at 2245175.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees full committee markup. scheduled to be held on thursday. july 24. 1986 at 10 a.m. has been rescheduled for 4 p.m. in addition. the location has been changed from room 428a of the russell senate office building to s146 in the capitol. this markup is being held to consider legislation authorizing the sale of certain small business administration loans in order to meet the reconciliation instruction as imposed by senate concurrent resolution 120. the concurrent resolution of the budget for fiscal year 1987.
s budget proposal on sba. the administration included legislation to authorize a preferred surety bond program. the bill we are introducing today is slightly different in that we are authorizing a pilot program to test s 3650 -co the concept for 3 years. the bill directs the general accounting office to conduct an evaluation of the program to determine how well the new program has worked. on april 12. 1988. the. committee on small business has scheduled a hearing to review this legislation.- i hope that soon thereafter. the committee would act on this proposal and i would urge my colleagues to support its passage.*
. the treasury department comment completely iges the last paragraph in section 104(b) which states as follows: the board may by regulation or order permit such exceptions to the foregoing prohibition as it considers will  be contrary to the purposes of this section. the "purposes" section. as set forth in the committee report. provides that: section 104 is designed to prohibit anticompetitive practices which require bank customers to accept or provide some other service or product or refrain from dealing with other parties in order to obtain the bank product or service they desire. thus. sufficient discretion is vested in the board of govers of the federal reserve board to exempt banking practices which are  anticompetitive. similarly. it is clear that the provision is restricted to ties involving banks and their customers and does  relate to relationships between government agencies and individual banks. even if such an implication were  clear. the federal reserve board is vested with ample authority to obviate any uncertainty. the treasury department position is therefore untenable. the justice department has strangely altered its previous unconditional support of this provision. in a letter dated september 11. assistant attorney general mclaren stated that: it has been brought to our attention that the language contained in section 104 (b) may cover a variety of traditional banking arrangements on which the committee has received testimony or other evidence... since these practices are almost universal and may serve necessary banking functions. we believe that they should  be outlawed. or placed in doubt without careful prior study. with deference to mr. mclarens ackledged expertise in this area. i would point out that the provision as presently drafted would authorize the federal reserve board to promulgate initial exemptions where necessary and supersede these exemptions when a thorough study had been completed. mr. mclarens most recent letter went on to state: the proposed new section 104 (b) would extend coverage of [the absolute prohibition against tying] . . . to banks. whether or  they were subsidiaries of bank holding companies. this general extension of the absolute prohibition against tieins raises... difficulties . . . to resolve this problem. we suggest that the language be revised to avoid any inference that congress intended in this statute to prohibit the use of compensating balances. correspondent balances and legitimate lending methods. i am forced to remind mr. mclaren that he has stated on a previous occasion that he sees "fundamental difference between tieins involving banks which are. and those which are . affiliates of bank holding companies." i ask unanimous consent that mr. mclarens september 11 letter be printed at this point in the record.
. for many years our federal tax code has exempted individuals from taxation on the first $100 in dividend income. this is done in recognition of the fact that when savings are invested in american enterprise through the vehicle of common stocks. it is subject to double taxatioce at the corporate level. prior to distribution to shareholders. and again when the individual pays his personal income tax. we should  lose sight of the important role of the individual investor in this nations capital formation process. it is important to maintain a continuous review of the investment incentives offered by our tax system to insure that these incentives are maintained at levels that are consistent with insuring continued ecoic growth and tax equity. the present dividend exclusion was last revised upward 10 years ago. since that time. the cost of living has skyrocketed. furthermore. during the same years the dramatic growth of largeblock trading of securities on the part of institutional investors has made necessary. as never before. the continued presence of individual investors in our securities marketplace. since such individual investors provide much needed depth. liquidity. and continuity to the market mechanism. we ought to encourage them to continue to fulfill their role. yet recent polls conducted for the new york stock exchange indicate that the number of individual shareholders in america has declined 21/2 percent over the past year. the first such reversal in 20 years of such recordkeeping. for these reasons. i am today proposing that the amount of dividend income excludible from income taxation be increased from $100 to $200. subject to one proviso. that proviso concerns the hitherto unequal tax treatment accorded to dividends and interest earned on savings accounts. those persons who deposit their savings in a savings account have been hurt by inflation. bank accounts have never received federal tax relief. yet they are every bit as important to the national ecoy as equity investment: for instance. our annced goal of providing every american with decent housing depends. in large measure. upon an instant and growing supply of money on deposit at lending institutions. in my judgment. it is apparent that interest earned on savings deposits ought to qualify. in reasonable amounts. for exclusion from gross income. just as dividends do. accordingly. the bill which i am introducing today would exempt up to a total of $200 of dividends. bank interest. or both. this figure. i believe. balances the equities between savings accounts and securities. at the same time. it is calculated with regard to the eroding influence of inflation on our present system of tax incentives. by mr. hatfield:
. i rise in support of s. 3917. which extends the life of the exportimport bank and increases its commitment authority. over the past few years. the bank has become the focus of several very controversial and difficult foreign policy issues. this bill reflects the long and reasoned attempts of the banking committee. and particularly its international finance subcommittee. to deal with these issues as they apply to the banks activities. with the addition of the floor amendment offered by the chairman and ranking miity member of the subcommittee. and one which i wholeheartedly support. this legislation goes a long way toward making the bank an even more effective and responsive participant in american foreign trade. in considering the bill as reported. we must bear in mind the banks primary function: providing export financing for american business. at a time when the strength of our ecoy is being sapped due to high interest rates and lack of available credit for many essential business transactions. it is important for the exportimport bank to remain strong and effective so that the bank can continue to provide essential support for our exports. under the pressure of dramatic price rises for oil and foreign raw materials. we have seen the 1973 u.s. trade surplus diminish in recent months to the second quarter deficit of $2.7 billion afin6unced yesterday. as a result. a trade deficit is likely for the full year. and some ecoists are even predicting it could be well over $2 billion. the primary negative factor influencing the u.s. balance of trade is the soaring cost of imported petroleum with the fuel bill expected to exceed $25 billion in 1974 compared to $7.5 billion in 1973. but we also are in trouble in manufactured goods with the deficit in this category running at an annual rate of close to $9 billion. partially offsetting these imbalances. are export surpluses in agricultural commodities and machinery and transport equipment. a continuing high level of export of capital goods and agricultural commodities is vital to the ecoic wellbeing of the unitec states. the exportimport bank has demonstrated that it can do a job our exporters need. it has assured over the past years that necessary financing is available to the exporter who can obtain from commercial sources the financing he needs to win his export salewhether the reason be the credit amount. risk. or foreign credit competition. to meet the growing need for financial support as u.s. exporters pursue foreign markets in the interest of a trade balance. eximbank has responded with assistance for $13 billion in export sales in fiscal year 1974. an 88percent increase over fiscal year 1971. the exportimport bank does  use appropriated funds in providing this vital assistance. to raise the funds. the bank borrows from the private market for the .medium term and from the u.s. treasury for the short term. it repays these moneys at the prevailing interest rates. since 1945. eximbank has paid $906 million in dividends to the u.s. treasury out of the profits from its operations and has accumulated reserves of $1.5 billion which are fully utilized in furtherance of the banks function. in fiscal year 1974. the bank made a profit of more than $105 million and paid a $50 million dividend to the u.s. treasury. eximbank has made a profit of more than $100 million each year for the past 13 years.  is  the time to shackle the bank with new restrictions on its ability to respond to the demonstrated needs of the u.s. exporters. placing the bank back under the budget would do just that. moreover. technical application of the unified budget and accounting rules to the bank is unreal and artificial. the money the bank borrows in a budget year to relend would  appear as a budget receipt to offset the banks loan disbursements which would be charged as budget expenditures. budget receipts would only be recorded in later years when the loans and repaid. thus. artificial deficits would be added to an already overloaded federal budget for technical accounting reasons. even though appropriations of tax moneys would be involved. let us agree that this accounting morass is  in the interest of the united states. we do  need it immediately because the bank already is properly under congressional control. accordingly. the resolution of the complicated issues involved in placing eximbank in the unified budget should await the study and recommendation of our new budget committee. i urge defeat of the proposed amendment to  include exim in the budget. i am also  persuaded by the arguments of those who have attacked the banks policies in setting the interest rate it charges on its loans. the bank is  charging a rate between 7 percent and 81 percent depending upon the circumstances of each particular loan. this flexible approach by the bank permits it to charge the rate that covers its cost of borrowed money and. at the same time. provide the competitive financing necessary if our u.s. exporters are going to successfully compete abroad. for example. prior to june 1973. the banks average cost of borrowed money was less than 6 percent. however. when its cost rose above this in february 1974. the bank raised its lending rate to 7 percent. further increases in money costs have led the bank to increase its rate to its present level. this is exactly what we intended the bank to do. i will  support an amendment which will tie the banks hands in setting interest on its loans by some formula related to the volatile prime rate. indeed. if controls on the banks lending rate are deemed advisable. such controls should be tied to the banks cost of funds. and  the prime rate.
they did  think they were taking a great risk. but since that time i think they have performed a sort of public service. they have assumed a greater risk than they already have. in my own state of massachusetts where we were trying to go into the bond market. the bankers insisted that. before they would buy these bonds. they have a balanced budget. of course. we had to pass very stringent legislation prior to that time. but in new york city the banks have realized that new york city can balance its budget at this time. though they do believe they will do it in 1978. and the bankers have agreed to stretch out the $1.6 billion with that assurance. i think the senator ought to k that.
i can. in all candor. say to the senator that i have any data or any special kledge that would permit me to give the senator from oklahoma that assurance. i can say. though. that i believe we have exacted from the city of new york and the state of new york. and from the private sector of new york. as much as can reasonably be expected of them. and i have faith that. under the figures that have been submitted to the senate banking committee as to what their debt is. what their shortterm obligations are. what their revenues are. and what their expenditures are. that they will be able by 1978 to have a balanced budget. this is  just something that we in the senate banking committee have done. we have had the best experts. the best financial minds we could get to arrive at this. new york city has been working on it. new york state has been working on it. the financial community and many others have been working on it. the treasury department. representing the federal government. has been working on it. and they collectively believe this is a viable plan. i also wish to emphasize that the president for many months has been stalwart in his opposition to federal loan guarantees for the city of new york. and it was  until this most recent plan. which was studied by the secretary of the treasury and by all of the presidents financial advisors. that they were satisfied that this was a viable plan. and a plan that would work. it was for that reason that the president of the united states endorsed this plan and sent it to congress in the form of the legislation on which we are  acting. that is the only assurance i can give to the senator from oklahoma: that my personal opinion. believing in the good faith and the expertise of those who have developed this legislation. is that it is a viable plan. i hope the city of new york will be able to balance its budget by
i thank the distinguished chairman of the banking committee for his remarks. and i look forward to working with him on legislation which will clarify the succession to the chairmanship of the federal reserve board. exhibi 1
i thank my chairman. the banking committee has included several conditions and restrictions in the guarantee program in order to insure that local parties provide the majority of financial assistance to the city and to encourage the city to continue its efforts at fiscal restraint. and our distinguished chairman. senator proxmire. while he did  vote to order the bill reported. led the committees efforts to report a bill which would place appropriate conditions on federal aid. these conditions include requirements that guarantees may be issued only to city or state pension funds. that the citys 1982 budget must be balanced in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. that the city must attempt to sell securities publicly as soon as possible. that the state must continue to provide the city with at least as much aid as it has agreed to provide in the citys 1979 fiscal year. that the state must coinsure 5 percent of the federally guaranteed securities. and that the citys financing needs for completion of its 4year financial plan (other than securities covered by guarantees) will have to be met through commitments from the state and other local parties. in view of these and the other conditions and restrictions. it is obviously in the best interest of new york city to obtain early access to the public credit markets and pay off the securities covered by the guarantees. . how much time do i have remaining so that we can have some proper allocation of time as raised by my distinguished colleague from utah .
 of the united states to us. i hope our committee on agriculture will schedule as early hearings as possible and will come to us with recommendations which will solve or tend to solve thi6 problem of these mounting surpluses. certainly what has been said here on the floor today about the use of these foods rather than their storage. their deterioration. is significant. it has already been suggested that the carrying charges alone. almost a complete dead loss. run better than $14 million a month. the last statement of the commodity credit corporation became available a couple of days ago. from june 30 of this year to ember 30. it showed that the total carrying charges alone were $94.832.308.84. that is broken down as follows: inventory transactions by program and commodity. fiscal year 1954 through . 30.
. in connection with the commodity credit corporation item i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoad at this point as a part of my remarks the illuminating balance sheet which appears in the printed copy of the house hearings at pages 657 to 659. it is a balance sheet of the commodity credit corporation as of march 31. 1944. and shows exactly how the deficit was incurred. it also shows a cumulative deficit to march 31. 1943. of approximately $67.000.000. the operating loss to march 31. 1944. was. in round numbers. $296.533.907. or a total of $363.846.418. the estimated loss due to appraisal was $36.868.986.60. making a total estimated appraisal loss of approximately $400.000.000. against that sum may be deducted payments by the secretary of the treasury to restore capital impairment of approximately $143.950.523. an inspec tion of the balance sheet will show exactly how the figures are arrived at.
the amendment is on page 2. line 3. after the word "value." the sentence starting out "the fair market value." insert a comma and the words "or in the case of each specified parcel of real property. the assessed value." that ends the amendment except for the excission of the words on lines 5. 6. and 7 "exclusive of any dwelling occupied as a residence by him or by members of his immediate family." and. on lines 21 and 22. "other than a dwelling occupied as a residence by him or by members of his immediate family." . if i may explain the amendment. it was suggested by the senator from delaware [mr. williamsj that in the case of real estate. it might be a real hardship for a person to make a declaration of actual value. it might be against his interests. it might be used against him in litigation or by tax authorities. and what. so. since we are requiring identification of each parcel of real estate. we think the purpose will be served by merely having it listed in this way with the assessed value.
two percent is  too bad. there was a time when the farmers of this country and those in rural areas paid 2 percent to bring in electricity. it did  mean that those people were good. but they could  afford more. by giving them electricity. it brought them in in a way that has been emously helpful in raising the standard of living in our rural areas and in our city areas. because the market is improved by prosperous farmers. so it is  strange to have a subsidy for this kind of thing.
. the amendment of the senator from oklahoma. which is the small business tax bill. comes before the senate very suddenly. i had planned to offer an amendment to the bill. i understand the amendment is highly agreeable to the committee. i should like to explain it. and perhaps the senator from virginia will accept it.
. again i draw on my foreign policy experience to say that the corollary of the proposition that both sides  have in mind only the capability for attack upon the heartland of the other is the proposition that the posture of the capability for some kind of defense within that heartland also represents a factor to be considered before one attacks. i think it is  an open secret that in the territory of the soviet union there are very marked civil defense preparations which are very expensive ones and far more elaborate than anything we have undertaken or considered undertaking even under the budget of which my colleague complains in terms of its amount. in addition to the other factors. of course. with respect to civil defense. it is a fact that this is an organized body of men and women. with material and establishments. which is tremendously useful to the country in any emergency. perhaps it was a long time overdue that we should have that and should  be required to depend exclusively either upon the military forces. which ought  necessarily be diverted for that purpose. or upon voluntary organizations such as the red cross. it is to be remembered that in the tragic floods in the state represented in part by my colleague from ohio. as is true with respect to flood and storm damage in my own state of new york in 1956 and 1957. supplies and men. organized for the purpose. have been tremendously useful in saving towns. cities. and lives. thousands of sandbags from civil defense surpluses are being used to save towns and cities of ohio from floods. hundreds of cots and thousands of civil defense blankets are being used. dozens of "ducks" from civil defense stocks are in service for rescue and evacuation. generators are used to light rescue operations and as a temporary source of power for towns which are flooded out in ohio. water purifiers are used to clean the water which has been contaminated by the floods. scores of water pumpers are being used to pump out basements and to lower the flood water level in the disaster areas. and surplus pipe is being used in the pumping operations.
 fails to approve. small business concerns within that industry become eligible for loans from the small business administration. such loans are based upon the disaster loan provisions of the present lawwhich are substantially easier to obtain than mal small business loans. section 2: the bill further contemplates that small businesses which have been adversely affected by the foreign trade policies of the united states may pool their productive capacities with the consent of the federal trade commission and attorney general without violating the antitrust laws. this will enable them in some cases to make their own operations more ecoical and less subject to foreign competition. section 3: the secretary of commerce. acting through the office of area development. is charged with the general coordination of governmental assistance to these businesses which are so affected. section 4: the secretary of labor is authorized to provide assistance for retraining individuals whose last employment was in business eligible for assistance under this program and to cooperate with existing vocational training agencies. in addition. where he finds that job opportunities exist for such an individual in his own area. the secretary may assist his relocation to aher area where there are employment opportunities for him. including the payment of relocation costs of up to $150. section 5: finally. the bill provides amendments to the internal revenue code of 1954 providing for a rapid amortizationand therefore a tax abatementas follows: first. where the line of business. and hence the capital investment of a company has been hurt by the u.s. trade policy described above. and where the facilities are  fully depreciated for tax purposes. the bill would permit a stepup in the depreciation rate of the existing equipment. the justification being that as trade policies have adversely affected the company. they have had a serious ecoic effect on the investment of the small business in its capital equipment. it is  illogical that this should be reflected in a tax reduction based upon the ecoic loss incurred. second. the bill also provides for rapid amortization of facilities of a small business acquired for the purpose of converting the business and developing new and different lines of production or improving old ones in order to cope with the adverse effect of the trade policies. this will. of course. provide an incentive for the small business to take account of the changed condition brought about by the trade policies of the united states and develop other fields of enterprise.
i should like to observe that i have supported the dividend tax credit before. i do  believe it is a liberal versus a conservative measure. i shall again support this exemption from taxation. because i think far more is to be gained from interesting our people in security holdings as the real eventuation of our society than can be gained by the feeling. which i believe is very genuine. about any injustice involved in this particular tax. i simply wanted to say that to the senator from utah. because i think it is a very important point for the consideration of senators during the consideration of the bill.
in order to visualize what is occurring. i should like to make this one point clear. because to me it represents the signal light in the whole situation. i call to the attention of senators subsection (b) of section 203. on page 8 of the bill. lines 19 to 23. the bill  incorporates section 104 of the government corporation control act. the amendment of the senator from iowa would strike out that provision and put in some other version of section 104 of the government corporation control act. which has never been construed. and which is absolutely a first impression. so i believe that the first question that every senator must ask himself is this: if the state department gave us certain assurances as to the efficacy of section 104 of the government corporation control act. based upon its text. and  we are relying on those assurancesand we did say that we arewhy should we move from that position and accept a new measure which would involve so much argument. why  stick precisely by what the department interpreted and described as representing the course of procedure it would follow under an applicable law. obviously the senator from iowa wishes to do something different. something other than what is done by section 104. then what gives us all worry and concernand i think quite properlybecause matter how we dress up the proposal. by agreeing to the hickenlooper amendment. we would make applicable appropriations committee procedure annually. the appropriations committee does  have to write in a provision "for development loan fund. $4.3 billion." the appropriations committee could write general language. providing in effect. "we approve the budget program of the development loan fund." that is all. that is the only difference. or the appropriations committee could say. "we approve. but deduct $500 million." the committee could say. "we do  approve it at all." they can do precisely what they do in their mal appropriations procedure. the tradition and practice has been that they do  take such action. but they do . with respect to what. with respect to corporations generally for domestic development. which involve wide areas of agreement. in which we do  have such hardfought struggles as we have had here. and in which the record of cuts between authorization and appropriation is  as it has been in the foreign aid area30 percent. therefore. the first word of warning to me in the proposal is that it would change what the state department represented to us as accomplishing a certain result. what was represented to us. it was represented to us that the agency could come in with an annual budget. according to the government corporation control act. and that it would then be the duty of congress. as the law provides. to approve. or. if the national interest dictated otherwise. to make changes or modifications in the budget. i have asked the question of all the high authorities. "what would happen if congress did  act." the question refers to only one house. it does  mean the house and senate. suppose the congress should  act. suppose one house did  act. we k immediately that the one change which the amendment of the senator from iowa would make is that if there were action. there would be authority. the authority would be ended. by the mere fact of inaction. senators who voted in opposition to the byrd amendment did  intend to take that kind of licking. having won on the byrd amendment. having determined the policy which would give the administration the authority to move out in a bargaining position in the world with a substantial sum of money. which is what we were convinced was necessary as an essential element in winning the cold war. by this very abstruse. highly technical procedure. we would take the authority away. in my opinion that is one decisive reason why the hickenlooper amendment should be defeated. the amendment does  answer the question as to what would happen if one of the houses. figuratively speaking. sat on its hands and did  act. it would answer the question in a way which we thought we were doing when we defeated the byrd amendment. because that is precisely what would have happened under the byrd amendment. we had an authorization. if the congress should choose to appropriate. it would do so. if one house chose  to appropriate. or to cut the request to ribbons. that would be the end of it. the other point which is very much in question is this: to what extent can budget programs. as they are submitted. cover fiscal years beyond the fiscal year in which we are submitting the budget. in appropriation acts such a provision is specifically set out. that is. the budget program. which is submitted. actually covers years beyond the fiscal year in question. and the budget is approved. that provision could be stricken out. frankly. i do  k of any way to prevent it from being stricken out. even if only section 104 were applied. but at least section 104 recognizes the business operations of a government corporation and expresses the intent of congress upon the basis of which an executive could then proceedthese are  cases that will ever get into courtand it would carry language to the following effect. i  read section 104: the provisions of this section shall  be construed as affecting the existing authority of any government corporation to make contracts or other commitments without reference to fiscal year limitations. so at least the hands of the executive would be freed to make some commitment. even if he could  absolutely guarantee that the money would be delivered. if we should agree to the hickenlooper amendment. we would omit such language. it seems to me that very clearly. as a basis of legislative intent. we then would have compounded what we have already done by paying a premium for congressional inaction. we would compound it by the legislative interpretation that. having omitted that language. we did  intend that the executive should feel that he has any such authority or any such right. i think the point could be very effectively argued. and i think it would very definitely manacle the executive into being unable to do precisely what we wanted him to do when we defeated the byrd amendment. when we submit the question to the authorities. they say that if we should agree to the amendment of the senator from iowa . we would then go to other parts of the billsection 635which would give the executive great latitude. and we would then have to decide whether the hickenlooper amendment really deprived the executive of this other authority or whether he still has it. but if we do  adopt the hickenlooper amendment. then we k he has the authority that we want him to have because we defeated the byrd amendment. in short. by adopting the hickenlooper amendment. we would be getting ourselves into a situation in which we are  at present. why do we need it. i think section 104 does what the state department has constantly represented it does. to wit. it makes a requirement for budget submissions annually to the appropriations committee. and requires a generalized approval by the appro-
i have every hope that tomorrow senators will read the record of tonight. because we shall then have only a relatively short time for debate. i shall do my utmost to summarize why the approach which is taken by the senator from minnesota and myself in respect to making the taxation of the earnings of foreign subsidiaries a matter cognizable under the unreasonable cumulation of surplus provisions of the law. rather than by direct taxation and imputation to the american stockholder. is superior in every way to the scheme which is contained in the bill. it seems to me that our proposal rests upon four arguments. first. the essential competition with foreign operators in the foreign field. second. the fact that the provision in the bill will work adversely with respect to new firms which do  have an established and longstanding pattern of operations abroad. third. it makes a distinction. which will turn out to be invidious to our own national interest. between developed nations and less developed nations. fourth. because the socalled escape valve which the committee on finance has established in order to make the provision more palatable will  act as such because it is based upon the fundamental proposition of taxing corporate earnings to shareholders before distribution. this is something the united states has never done in terms of operations of this nature. except possibly with respect to personal holding companies. which we are  arguing about here. and something which other country has done. yet we must compete in international investment with the nationals of all other countries. one thing which the senator from minnesota did  discuss. but which i should like to refer to. is that much was made in the hearings about the balance of payments. very elaborate tables were submitted by the secretary of the treasury. in which he endeavored to show that there was too long a timelag between oversea private investment and repatriation through earnings of that investment. i challenge that concept and invite senators to examine in that regard the rather important and. i think. proper analysis which appears on pages 3891 to 3907 of the record of the hearings. the analysis demonstrates. in my view. the fallacy of the secretarys arguments on that score. i shall obtain. and offer tomorrow in the debate. precise figures which were developed before the joint ecoic committee. and which indicate how this gap is rapidly being closed and how advantageous we already begin to see will be the income from overseas to private investments by american investors and americans who operate through subsidiaries overseas. the gap is closing very rapidly. the increase is quite marked. i shall take great pleasure in presenting those figures to the senate tomorrow.  i shall comment upon the points which i have stated. first. as to competition with foreign operators. it has already been made clear that we are engaged in a profound struggle in the world. we are  alone in the world. we are deeply affected by world affairs. and must have important and material world sources to dispose of our exports. those exports are made up  only of goods and services which we sell abroad. they are also made up of parts and other equipment which we send to american subsidiaries which manufacture overseas in a very important way. in addition. we do  wish to be disadvantaged in our competition for export markets. which are very often heavily supplied by foreign subsidiaries producing under favorable conditions. our exports can compete unless we encourage the establishment of subsidiaries and investments abroad. the factor of competition is critically important. both to our world position and to the exporting of our surplus. also. we must remember that we can write the tax bill in such a way as to confound and bedevil our international interest in the expansion of trade abroad. which we shall deal with in aher bill which will follow rather rapidly on the heels of this one. yet. it strikes me that that is precisely what we are doing in this situation. the second provision drafted by the committee on finance is adverse to the new premise. that essentially. at least with one of the escape valves. which is generally considered the major one of the escape valves. is a provision under which the overall foreign company tax paid with respect to u.s. operations "is  substantially below what the u.s. tax would be on the income." this completely disregards the competitive factor which i have described. it completely disregards the higher taxes paid by u.s. citizens for reasons quite apart from income which they earn from the foreign operations or which accrue from foreign operations. that also is really an escape valve only for a corporation which has established a longstanding practice in this regard and is only advantageous to it. it does  serve the needs of small and new firms at all. which will be hit by the principle of taxing corporate earnings to shareholders before distribution. which continues unless the corporation comes under the escape valve.
. this is a very serious matter. as i say. this is probably the last opportunity any of us will have to do anything in terms of trying to rationalize the picture of competition between american firms operating abroad and their foreign competitors. if senators will refer to page 79 of the committee report they will find how the new concept of taxation is applied. i quote from the second full paragraph on page 79 of the report. referring to u.s. corporations: "for their income from foreign sales subsidiaries which are separately incorporated from their manufacturing operations." i ask senators to look at page 84. under the heading. "foreign base company sales income." the explanation at the top of the page is as follows: foreign base company sales income is income derived from the purchase and sale of personal property if the property is either purchased from a related person or sold to a related person. that refers to the closeness of the relationship as between the u.s. corporation and its subsidiary. i continue the quotation: however. this applies only where the property purchased is manufactured. produced. grown. or extracted outside of the country where the controlled foreign corporation is organized and the property also is sold for use. consumption or use outside of that country. i ask senators to refer to the language in the paragraph relating to foreign base company services income. in the last full paragraph on page 84: as in the case of sales income. the purpose here is to deny tax deferral where a service subsidiary is separated from manufacturing or similar activities of a related corporation and organized in aher country primarily to obtain a lower rate of tax for the service income. the amendment would provide that if a service company or a sales company were organized in any one country within the european common market areathat is  six countries. but it may be a greater number as we go alongit shall be deemed to be a corporation of the same place as the corporation of manufacture. when that corporation is itself within the european common market area. i emphasize that. because i wish to make it perfectly clear that tax consequences are envisaged by the amendment. it does  merely relate to the relatively slight expense of organizing a corporation. it would treat the whole common market area. as it were. as one country for the tax implications of the bill as it relates to foreign corporations. provided one is dealing only with operations which deal with manufacture or with services. and excluding the whole personal holding company concept. in this connection. i refer to the statement which was introduced by our distinguished colleague who is in charge of the bill . which appears in 30. 1962. i refer to the memorandum explaining the view of the treasury department on the proposed trade expansion act of 1962. which is  being considered by the finance committee. it explains with crystal clarity on the highest level of our government the reason why i saywhich i believe is completely supported by the statementthat the european ecoic community must be considered as a single market in which american companies must compete with other foreign producers who will be operating in that market. american companies are going to be seriously disadvantaged by the tax consequences of the pending bill. this is an effort to reduce somewhat the extent of that disadvantage. i wish to read from the memorandum prepared by the secretary of the treasury and sent to the senate finance committee in respect to the proposed trade expansion act of 1962: as the domestic ecoy grows. american demand for imports will become greater. despite our best efforts. outlays abroad for the national defense. aid. and investment will continue to be large. if these payments are to be met. the united states must export more. the necessary expansion of exports can occur only if. through negotiations. the doors to major foreign marketsand especially the new and expanding common market of western europeare opened wider for u.s. products. the six countries which formed the european ecoic community have  established their common external tariff. and are expected to bring it into full effect when their transitional period is over. at the latest by the end of 1969. also. they are rapidly reducing the tariffs which apply to their trade with one aher and are committed to eliminate them altogether by the end of 1969. the common agricultural policy. and the terms of continued association with newly independent countries which were formerly european colonies. are rapidly taking shape. the united kingdom is expected to join the european ecoic community. and others may well follow. the resulting expanded common market will constitute a giant new ecoic unit within the free world. i emphasize those wordswill constitute a giant new ecoic unit within the free world. if u.s. exports are to be expanded to the necessary extent. liberal access to the common market is absolutely essential.
the tax effects would result if the income realized on sales. according to the bill. were realized from a corporation which was a sales company incorporated in the country other than the country in which the manufacturing of the subsidiary took place. for example. american corporation x might have a subsidiary which did manufacturing in france. it would sell in italy through a sales corporation. the sales income then comes under the inhibitions of the bill in the sense that it is taxed immediately to the american stockholder. even though it is  actually received. that is the fundamental tax change made by the bill. on the other hand. as to a sales company in france for an american corporation manufacturing through a subsidiary in france. there is such tax consequence. therefore. the amendment would transform the whole common market area into a situation analogous to the one i have stated with respect to a subsidiary manufacturing in france and selling in france. that is the way in which the scheme of taxation in the bill is traced out. i have made the amendment. therefore. to apply both to a sales operation in which tangible goods are involved. and to the business of selling servicesas. for example. an accounting firm or a company servicing various types of appliances and machinery. some other management service. or some other tangible operating servicing company. those are the two types of companies to which i have applied the scheme as it relates to the integrated european common market. so the tax consequences would then  flow if the whole operation were conducted with the common market. as provided by the bill. the tax consequences. therefore. would be analogous to the situation in which the manufacturing and selling would take place in one country. which. as the bill is drafted. does  come under the particular tax applicability which is  established by the bill. that is the thrust of the amendment. the purpose of it is to do what we can to rectify the competitive situation as between other foreigners operating within the european common market and ourselves. one final fact and i shall be through. i point out that business with the european common market is a critically important aspect of the american trade surplus. the same memorandum of secretary dillon to which i have referred shows that in 1961 we had a surplus in trade with the common market of $1.3 billion. that is. we exported $31/2 billion. we imported $2.2 billion. we had a surplus in agricultural goods of $1.3 billion. even in agricultural goods we had a surplus of $400 million. that information comes directly from secretary dillons memorandum. this will grow in importance. the standard of living in the european common market is rapidly rising. many american companies are finding it possible to move into the common market with a part of their operations. the proposal would  result in an export of american jobs. in my opinion. i think that is a very fallacious position. because it has been demonstrated time and again in testimony before the joint ecoic committee and many other committees that in the export of parts. management skills. and original machinery for the purpose of settting up branch plants abroad. the american ecoy prospers. in addition. it is impossible to compete in terms of exports at all. unless we engage in those operations we will lose material opportunities in the export market which we want. in short. it is  a question of exporting our jobs or exporting our opportunity to export. it is a question of maintaining our competitive position in the field and improving and expanding that position by new techniques. in view of the fact that old techniques are being invalidated by competition and by such things as the european common market. as i have said. i believe this is the last opportunity for us to do anything in respect to the bill. it is some effort to right the competitive situation which will be faced by more and more american companies abroad. especially as new trade legislation is passed. i am the first to state to senators that participation by american business in the export field is very poor. it represents about 3.000 firms. about 5 percent of the total. one of our great problems is how to increase materially small business participation in the export field. of course. it can be materially inhibited by adverse tax laws. one effort is being made in the amendment offered by the senator from minnesota and myself to equate and alleviate the risks of the new tax schemeand it is new. it has  been done beforein dealing with a new entity. a new ecoic problem of competition in the european common market.
as to those corporations which are in the condition that i have described. one further point: switzerland and other lowtax countries are   in the common market. so the common market is  composed of highly industrialized countries which have rather important tax structures of their own. but beyond that. i think the fundamental point on which i would differ very sharplyand the whole administration differs with itis that investments by american corporations which manufacture in the european common market represent an export of our jobs. if the senator from oklahoma would argue that when the trade bill is before the senate. the senator would be dead set against the trade bill. because the whole thrust of the trade bill is designed to encourage precisely this kind of freedom of operation on the part of american corporations. what my amendment tries to accomplish is to retain competitively this freedom of operation for them. which. i would tell the senator. with just as much vigor as he has just used. will be destroyedthe competitive position of american corporations will be absolutely destroyedby the disadvantage imposed upon them by the artificial operations of this bill in this very respect toward the european common market. as the bill treats the european common market. as six separate countries and gives tax status as it relates to six separate countries. is there anything in the bill which would impose the kind of tax that the senator wishes to impose upon these corporations. on american corporations with subsidiaries and sales companies in one country in the european common marketfrance or germany. is it  true that this bill expressly excludes such corporation from the tax treatment under the bill.
i will  read it. i will let the senator from oklahoma read it. the treasury is to watch the operation to see if it wishes any improvement in the reporting of dividend and interest income. would the senator. as a matter of legislative record. be willing to have the treasury watch it from the point of view of the onerousness of the reporting on the part of segments of the savings industry. including thrift industries. to see what additional revenue has been produced by this provision. and also report if it finds that the reporting requirements which the bill carries bear particularly heavy on any particular section of the thrift industry. and if so. to make recommendations.
subsequently said: . and stated that i was asking the secretary of the treasury to give us a statement of reassurance that the tax equalization proposal with respect to foreign longterm debts and foreign securities issued or floated in the united states did  mean or imply that we were going into some kind of controls over the flotation of foreign securities in the united states. i  have that statement and desire to read it into the record. my reason is that it is a very urgent subject with the financial and banking community of the united states which will be deeply concerned by this tax proposal. perhaps they will oppose it. certainly they will be deeply concerned if it means the initiation of controls over the marketing of foreign securities in this country. which would have a tendency to impair materially our role as the worlds banker. which is  only a responsibility and burden. but also gives us an opportunity for leading the world financially and to occupy a place which is rightfully ours. therefore we have to carry it. i am very glad to make this statement available generally. secretary dillon has sent the message to me. and i give it to the senate. as being his statement. the secretary states: in seeking to restrain the flood of foreign securities which are attracted to the u.s. - capital market because of its better organization and lower interest rates than most markets abroad. we rejected as impractical and unacceptable two alternatives which had been urged upon us. the first was an increase in longterm interest rates. with the huge volume of savings in the united states today. an increase in longterm rates would - probably  be possible. in addition. under present circumstances such a rise would  be desirable. the other avenue. which has been used in the past by other capital exporting countries and still exists in most. was exchange controls.  only would such controls probably be ineffective. they would be totally at variance with our free market tradition. direct government control of private investment decislonmaking has been. and will continue to be. completely unacceptable to us. our proposal for an interest equalization tax is the direct opposite of a system of exchange controls. capital controls would require government review and approval of each transaction. the proposal for an interest equalization tax does  do this. all that is implied in the tax is that the interest rate mechanism applied by the federal reserve in the shortterm area is being extended to apply in the longer term area. without raising the level of longterm rates domestically. the cost of longterm money is increased. but to foreigners only. capital controls would seek to limit administratively the volume of transactionsin effect saying arbitrarily. that we will permit so much in the way of security sales and more. the tax merely raises the cost of foreign sales to about the international level and relies on market forces to operate. our capital markets would remain completely open. but the large interest rate incentive for sales here which  exists would be narrowed by about 1 percent. in rejecting the alternative of capital controls we are again anncing to the world that we are  going down the path that we have opposed and will continue to oppose. instead. we have found a device which preserves our way of doing business. and at the same time would cope with a serious problem we face in meeting the balanceofpayments challenge. at first impression. i can see much in favor of this way of dealing with the problem. which is better than controls. however. i welcome the statement. because i think it must be evaluated by the entire financial and banking community. which will undoubtedly manifest its views to me and to the country generally. i believe the statement puts the problem in focus as being clearly a way in which the flow of issues of both stocks and bonds from abroad would  be neglected. but by means of fixing interest rates on those issues to be made more clearly related to the interest rate on longterm issues abroad without affecting cost of longterm funds to the domestic borrowers. it may be a way out of the dilemma in which we find ourselves with respect to the unfavorable effects of the large outflows of private longterm capital on our balance of payments. it is a fact that such flotations have risen materially. until the outflows of private longterm capital during the first quarter of this year totaled more than $1 billionnearly double the amount in the first quarters of the past several years. however. i believe we need to have the reaction of the business and financial community. and this statement will get that reaction. the secretary of the treasury. i am glad to say. expressly repudiates exchange controls and makes it clear that the tax is intended to stand in the way of any such controls.
. this mornings new york times devotes considerable attention to a problem i have discussed on the floor of the senate on several occasions. namely. the need for a capital issues committee to deal with the problem caused by large u.s. capital exports. in my view. the interest equalization tax would  be an effective instrument in dealing with the problem of capital outflows. its apparent success during the third quarter is clearly attributable to the uncertainty caused by the proposed measure while congress debates over it rather than to the actual tax that is to be imposed. while foreign borrowing in the united states has dried up. partly as a result of this proposal. it also succeeded in shutting down the u.s. capital market as a center of world finance. i believe that is  in our interest. while i fully endorse the treasurys efforts to urge the europeans to develop their own narrow capital markets. it is rather doubtful that all the capital markets of europe added together can supply within the foreseeable future even a part of the capital needed for a prosperous and viable free world. and which heretofore has been obtained in the united states. as a far more effective alternative i have proposed that a capital issues committee be created. composed of representatives of the government. federal reserve banks. commerce and industry and banking as well as of the public. their job would be to approve or reject proposed capital issues on the basis of criteria laid down by the federal government. the interest equalization tax is discriminatory as far as the countries affected. as well as the type of securities involved. are concerned. it is in sense less of a "capital control"-which the treasury ostensibly abhorsthan the capital issues committee i propose. but with one major difference. the capital issues committee could be a truly temporary arrangement. it could be an instrument which is kn to our european allies and is  new in our own historythe voluntary credit restraint committee of the korean war has served our country effectively. such a committee could determine between capital issues which would be beneficial to our balance of payments in the long runthat is. those which may produce u.s. exports. and those which are considered productive. it is a proposal which is gaining strong support from the responsible press and among the financial community. the new york times in an editorial this morning endorses the creation of a capital issues committee. it has previously endorsed this idea in editorials on september 1 and ember 18. i urge the treasury to give this alternative its serious consideration. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the editorial from this mornings new york times. a letter to the editor on the same subject. and an article entitled "equalization tax." both from the same newspaper.
. a great point has been made about the fact that the securities market for foreign investments dried up once this tax was annced and the anncement was made retroactive. with congress supinely going along exactly as the executive wrote the ticket. whatever may be the facts. and whatever may be the changes in the figures. i comment  briefly about developments in this country and abroad since last july. which i believe. in themselves. call for rejection of the bill at this time. since the introduction of this measure. there have been several important developments which already have had. and will continue to have. a favorable impact in the future on our balance of payments. the condition of ecoic growth in europe and the relatively slow growth in the united states has been reversed. by the time the bill h.r. 8000 was proposed in july 1963. both the u.s. ecoy and the u.s. security markets were outstripping their oversea counterparts. growing labor costs. produced by a shortage of workers. increasing production costs. and spiraling prices. have produced the familiar profits squeeze in europe and have slowed growth. american investors also have been taking a much harder look at european countries. recent financial difficulties experienced by machines bull in france and olivetti in italy have led to wide concern about the thin capitalization of many foreign companies. european capital markets have expanded their internal lending activities significantly in recent years. even prior to the introduction of the proposed tax. this is a conclusion reached by a treasury study entitled "a description and analysis of certain european capital markets." prepared for the joint ecoic committee in connection with its study last year of the u.s. balance of payments. this expansion has already resulted in increased markets for foreign securities in europe. according to secretary dillons testimony on june 29. sales of foreign securities in european capital markets increased from $200 million during the first half of 1963. to $600 million during the same period of 1964. this expansion has made possible the financing of projects from domestic sources previously financed with capital obtained in the united states. since the passage of the tax cut early this year. our investment climate has improved and investment for plant equipment has increased substantially. such investments were 3 percent higher during the first quarter of 1964 than had been anticipated as late as december 1963. the total of such investments for 1964 is expected to reach $43.9 billion. 10 percent above the fourth quarter of 1963. and 12 percent above 1963 as a whole. in striking comparison. the actual increase in capital spending between 1962 and 1963 was only 5 percentincreasing from $37 to $39 billion. the improved investment climate created by the tax cut has attracted u.s. investment which would have otherwise been invested abroad and may attract additional foreign investment to the united states. aher factor that must be considered is the substantial expansion of our exports. between 1962 and 1963. u.s. merchandise exports increased by $1.4 billion. from $20.6 to $21.9 billion compared with an increase of $566 million between 1961 and 1962. during the first quarter of this year. our exports were running at an annual rate of over $24 billion. 21 percent higher than in the first quarter of 1963. such factors as the stability of prices in the united states and continued inflation in europe and more effective export promotion techniques will be of assistance in maintaining our exports at a high level. on the other hand just such a factor as this interest equalization tax could put a real damper on it. that is why i object to it so strongly. in this connection i ask unanimous consent that the revised balanceofpayments outlook for 1964 issued by the highly authoritative national foreign trade council on july 20. 1964. along with a related article from the july 23. 1964. issue of the journal of commerce may be printed in the record at this point of my remarks.
 of the united states of the task force on "promoting increased foreign investment" in u.s. corporate securities as a means of improving our balance of payments is that u.s. investment bankers and brokerage firms should intensify their efforts to develop facilities to reach foreign investors directly. the participation by u.s. firms in the sale of foreign securities has been one of the major reasons for the development. for the most part in the last 10 years. of the foreign contacts of these firms. without some measure of twoway traffic in securities it is unreasonable to expect the improvement of foreign facilities that is neces-. sary to increase the distribution of u.s. securities abroad. too severe measures may only be selfdefeating even in the short run. finally. the major effect of the interest equalization tax act has  been a development of a european market for security issues payable in european currencies so much as the transfer to european financial centers. primarily london. of the management of foreign security issues payable in dollars. the european market for these dollar issues was developed by u.s. investment bankers with the encouragement of the u.s. government. it is shortsighted and aalous that u.s. firms and institutions are   permitted to play their natural role where these dollar issues are concerned. one related. unfortunate effect of the tax has been a sharp reduction of our u.s. income from invisible receipts connected with the flotation of foreign securities. while the amounts are  readily determinable. millions of dollars a year are involved. taking into account lost commissions and management fees. lost sales of printers and banke companies. lost fees to fiscal agents. lost fees of lawyers and accountants and the like. even a very limited opening of the u.s. capital market would permit the management of many. probably of most. dollar issues to be returned to the united states and thus restore the greater part of this lost income. this can be achieved without appreciable adverse effect on the u.s. balance of payments since the greater part of these issues will continue to be sold abroad. whatever part the treasury feels is required at the time in view of our balanceofpayments position. to cede to european bankers the financial role formerly played by u.s. investment bankers is to squander our natural position. the operation of the proposed amendments is simple. they would exempt from the interest equalization tax that would otherwise be imposed by h.r. 8000 all securities of a foreign issue acquired by u.s. underwriters if  more than a fixed percentage of the amount of the issue were sold to u.s. persons. this percentage would initially be 25 percent. the secretary of the treasury would have the authority in his discretion to increase or decrease the specified percentage applicable to all issues from time to time in accordance with the treasurys view of the u.s. balanceofpayments position. a penalty tax of 150 percent of the mal tax would be imposed on any portion of an issue sold to u.s. persons in excess of the permitted percentage. the amendment would be applicable to both issues that are publicly offered and registered under our securities act of 1933 and to issues that are placed privately with a limited number of institutional purchasers. even though the portion of the issues that could be sold in the united states without penalty will initially be only 25 percent and thereafter such greater or lesser percentage as might be determined from time to time by the treasury. the importance of opening this additional market and the assurance of greater marketabilitya factor of prime importance to european buyersthat the slight participation by u.s. persons in the issue would provide. would in many cases cause the foreign issuer to select u.s. investment bankers rather than foreign investment bankers to manage his dollar issue. some 5 or 6 years ago. when sales of foreign securities in the united states began to reach appreciable annual volumes. it was  at all uncommon for 60 percent or more of an entire foreign issue to be sold by the u.s. underwriter to foreign buyers. this percentage gradually declined in most cases as u.s. demand for foreign securities developed. but this experience does indicate that even a small participation by u.s. persons is egh to justify to a foreign issuer the burden of complying with the u.s. requirements applicable to a public issue. the portion of the foreign issue sold in the united states could be expected to approximate the percentage permitted at the time since the penalty would ordinarily be prohibitive. the amendments would  be difficult to administer. the act  relies upon certificates of brokers and dealers to determine whether particular transactions are subject to the tax. the amendments would use the same procedure. in effect the managing underwriter. on the basis of certificates furnished by participating underwriters and dealers. would furnish to the treasury a certificate as to the distribution of the underwritten securities to u.s. persons and to foreign persons. the proposed amendments will  impair the operation of the interest equalization tax act. but will render it a more flexible instrument and cause its operation to be more consistent with the preservation of the vitality of our international capital markets. a small continuing. but controlled. volume of u.s. investment in exempt foreign securities is  merely acceptable. but something that is desirable in itself and. perhaps more importantly. because of its collateral effects in preserving the primacy and effectiveness of the u.s. capital market. this market is a valuable national asset wh~ch we should take pains to preserve. again i point out. in concluding my argument on this amendment. that by acting in this way. we will  inhibit a process that has shown great profit to the united states. great profit in terms of exports and imports. and great profit also in terms of the fact that we receive more in income from our foreign investments than the aggregate of what we put out in our foreign investments every year. that is a flow which it would be unwise to stop or interfere with. it is for these reasons that this plan. which has appealed so deeply to the investment bankers of the nation. is the plan which i propose to the senate. i refer to a letter addressed to senator morton by nathaniel samuels. chairman of the foreign investment committee of the investment bankers association of the united states. in which mr. samuels says:
. it is interesting to me to observe that this amendment is put forward. it is somewhat in the nature. as it were. of attacking the situation from the other end of the pole. after the arguments which have been made today about the inflexibility of this particular proposed statute. and the fact that it would . in my judgment. and apparently the judgment of other senators. operate in a manner conducive to the best outlook for american foreign trade. and for american leadership of the free world in bank credit. there is  a proposal to inhibit further the freedom of action on the part of the banking community. by giving authority to impose a tax on commercial bank loans. in the first place. i ice that the committee report makes it clear that the bank loans refer to more bank loans in the ordinary course of commercial banking business. the committee report also recognizes the special role played by banks in support of: "mal recurring finance of international business of american firms." obviously. loans to foreign concerns are often the basis upon which foreign concerns acquire american exports. that is exactly what the committee had in mind when it provided for this exclusion. it seems to me that the exclusion is of such a nature that if it is abused. there are many controls over our banks through the banking system and through the federal reserve authorities. as well as through the comptroller of the currency over national banks. and through various state regulatory authorities over state banks. in addition. there is a reporting system which has already been referred to by the senator from tennessee as an additional protection. i doubt very much whether any senator. in this new and untried field of interest equalization tax. would wish to move also into the concept of taxing bank loans. with what that would mean in yet aher type of control over the whole banking system. it is true that bank loans have risen materially. i pointed that out myself in terms of financing. but this is  necessarily a bad thing. because money has a way of trying to find the necessary uses to which it must be put. and if we shut off one path for that purpose. it will open up aher. it is a fair assumption that the increase in bank loans was  as great. we must remember. the issuance of securities against which this bill is directed. the increase in bank loans. i pointed out in my basic remarks. came to approximately $800 million over a period of a few years. that is. from $400 million to approximately $1.2 billion or $1.3 billion. this must be juxtaposed to the fact that the flow of investment in foreign securities. which was cut off in terms of total issue. ran into the area of approximately $2.5 billion or more on an annual basis. i believe it is a reasonable assumption that. to the extent bank loans increased. capital was necessary to finance our international trade. when the mal amount of capital which would move into international trade was cut off. the securities route was used. then the loan route was availed of. in my judgment. to the extent that it really represented the need for financing international trade. i believe that the committee made this exclusion. as it explains in its report. in a considered way. i believe that it would be a grave mistake to expand this already unique and new approach to include as well the traditional freedom of bank loans which the committee itself excluded from the bill. the reasons for which the committee explained. and the reasons for which i have explained. if anything. it would make the interest equalization tax more menacing than it is  to mal financial transactions. and even further restrict the opportunities available for american banking leadership abroad. in my judgment. it would have an adverse effect on our trade. we must remember that we are striking at the jugular vein of what is critically important for the balance of payments. as our favorable balance in international trade is  running at the rate of $6.25 billion a year. and what we have to depend upon absolutely in terms of a semblance of control over our balance of payments. i do  believe that the interest equalization tax bill would do what it should do iri connection with our international balance of payments. i believe that it would be disastrous if we  impaired the american trading position. which i believe adoption of this amendment would tend to impair. i very much hope that those who are friends of the new approach to the interest equalization tax will themselves see that their "new baby" is being jeopardized. and will reject the amendment.
s program. as it is likely that the capital outflows required would in many cases be offset by exports of u.s. equipment and materials and returns of investment income. third. to the extent that a slowing of u.s. bank credit may in some cases have seriously adverse effects on the balanceofpayments positions of individual less developed countries. that would of course be a factor for u.s. banks to take into consideration in assigning relative priorities to the credit demands they receive from those particular countries. in view of the concern of the financial community of the country in this matter. i ask unanimous consent that this exchange of correspondence. as well as a federal reserve press release dated march 8. containing guidelines to commercial banks. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
s voluntary program to meet our balanceofpayments deficit problem on the flow of private u.s. capital to developing nations. this correspondence was prompted by the concern of some in the u.s. financial community that this program would result in a sharp curtailment of private investment in developing nationsa concern shown  to be warranted. on march 9 i wrote a similar letter to secretary of commerce con whose responsibility it is to administer the program as far as the banking business community is concerned. i ask unanimous consent that my letter of march 9 along with secretary cons reply of march 25 may be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
in the first place. i thank the senator for his customary courtesy. and i appreciate the position the senator proposes to take. i shall say just a word about that. and explain briefly my own position. i think we face an extremely serious situation. both in the country and in the world. in the country. because we can avoid neither the inflationary impact of taking roughly $15 billion out of the civilian ecoy for the vietnam struggle.  other influences here which have emphasized monetary as against fiscal policy as a way in which to deal with the overheating of the ecoy. which in my judgment have resulted in high interest rates and in a tight money situation. i submit that that tight money situation is very serious. i shall state my case. so that. while the senator may speak the other way. at least both points of view will be of record. the seriousness of the tight money situation is in its cost to the mal consumer. especially in such fields as homebuilding. and to small business. a second aspect of it is the fact that we have essentially entrusted to the banks the selectivity of where credit should go. and they are making their own decisions. one would assume  on the basis. necessarily. of the national interestalthough i am sure they are as patriotic as anybody elsebut on the basis of what is the prime credit. if one talks to them. they will say they are distributing credit pretty equitably. they say the small man. the small business. the homeowner. and so forth receive a fair break. but as we all recognize. when credit is administered by a bank. whose job is to earn interest on money and to get its money back. it does  have the same conations .we would put on it if we were doing it here as the government. or as the u.s. senate. the administrations most recent response to the problem of rising interest rates has been to suggest that the house banking and currency committee begin work on legislation to limit temporarily the amount of interest which commercial banks and other financial institutions can pay on certain types of deposits. should congress act on this recommendation. it would be like clamping the lid on a boiling pot without turning down the heat. if study by appropriate congressional committees indicates. however. that this would be an appropriate action to take. it is my view that this action must be coupled with basic fiscal action to moderate the demand for credit. which is one basis of our high interest structure. credit demand for marginal projects can be reduced by a more. restrictive fiscal policy. improving the mix between fiscal policy and monetary policy would result in reducing the overall level of demand but at a lower structure of interest rates than in the present situation where emphasis is placed on restrictive monetary policy alone. while the rate of increase in the price level appears to have diminished in recent weeks. the inflation hazard is by means a thing of the past. we are in the midst of a guidelinejettisoning machinists strike against onehalf of the major domestic airline carriers. right . next year. labor contract negotiations are scheduled involving 3 million workers in a number of key industries. such as rubber. trucking. communications. paper. construction. and automobiles. vietnam costs are certain to increase before the year is out. and capital spending is  diminishing. the administration can permit any further delay in adopting a policy mix that will permit continued ecoic growth in the united states without inflation. this policy mix. in my view. calls for an easing of credit and lowering of interest rates balanced by an increase in both individual and corporate tax rates totaling about $6 billion. if the administration would take the lead in fiscal policy. the federal reserve board would. i believe. be ready to adjust monetary policy accordingly. if administrationfederal reserve board coordination has any meaning whatever it means just such cooperation and congress has every right to expect this from the federal reserve board. it is fair to say that our current ecoic outlook is cloudy and there are quick or easy policy solutions. nevertheless. the administrations abdication of ecoic leadership over the past 6 months has aggravated the uncertainty about the ecoic outlook and made the selection of an appropriate policy respnnse more difficult and hazardous than would have been the case early this year. further delay in making hard ecoic decisions would be the worst solution5 to $7 billion in government revenues and would affect the ecoy across the board more equitably than a tightmoney policy. a policy which is essentially selective except as individual banking institutions carry out selectivity. a corresponding easing of credit and a fall of interest rates would at thesame time improve the situation of those credit institutions and businesses which today are carrying the main burden of the administrations unwillingness to "face the music." in addition to all those reasons. i foresee other demands. for example. there is a very grave and serious financial crisis in britain. which could very seriously and adversely affect  only the ecoic situation of the world. but also of the united states. as well as britains defense responsibilities. yesterday i advocated here that we ought to give britain some pretty drastic help in these circumstances.  for its welfare programs or to nationalize business. but to enable it to navigate this gale in which it finds itself. for all of those reasons. i felt we had to be willing to face a tax increase. and i did  feeland this was the essence of my difference with the senatorthat the slowdown we had seen in the gross national products rate of increase in the second quarter of this year was a sufficient reason why we should forgo that position. i k the position is politically difficult and indeed politically unpopular. but i think the exigencies of the ecoy demand a modest acrosstheboard tax increase for individuals and corporations. sufficient to produce something in the area of $5.5 billion to $7 billion a year. correspondingly. it is my view that the federal reserve board should ease the credit situation and help lower interest rates. the reduction in the rate of increase in the gross national product in the second quarter was  a sufficient reason against my recommendation. first. because it was a temporary phee. whereas other very much deeper phee were occurring right around us which would have a contrary effect. and secondly. because i pointed out the tremendous result of the increase by reason of inflation. which was only. to me. an added danger. increased vietnam costs and the forthcoming labor contract negotiations in a number of key industries could contribute to further serious inflationary pressures. i hope the senator will forgive me. because i must leave . but i welcome a juxtaposition of our two structured ideas. both for the edification of the nation and for our governmental agencies. i say to the senator that there is one with whom i would rather have this kind of effort to depict two different points of view. arriving at exactly opposite conclusions on the same set of factswhich often happensthan my beloved fellow senator. the senator from wisconsin. in conclusion. i ask unanimous consent to insert into the record an article written by hobert rowen in the washington post of july 19. 1966. on this subject.
first. i should like to say to the senator from utah. as a former member of the committee on banking and currency. that i believe it is a great tribute to him that he is able to stand before the senate and agree to the bill. because to me the most eloquent words in the english language that reflect the greatest character on those who utter them are "i am persuaded." i k that the senator has had much to do with developing a bill which he could support and. without him. it could never have happened. although many of us felt that paul douglas could have done it if he had only moved an inch or two. the fact that it has been done must still be remembered as a very important tribute to his service in the senate. senator proxmire picked up the torch for senator douglas. but we should  forget senator douglas great role in authoring this idea. i had a similar experience with senator lehman. of new york. who was a devotee of developing power at niagara. but he never would move an inch. either. and hence it never got done until senator ives and i did what senator proxmire and senator bennett have done in this matter. so we should remember those who were the progenitors. like senator douglas. but we should also pay great tribute to the senator from utah and the senator from wisconsin. who worked this matter out. if i may have the attention of the chairman of the committee and the ranking miity member. the new york banks have presented two questions to me which i should like to present to both senators. so that at least the record might indicate that the questions were asked and answered. because i intend to support the bill. and i realize the interdependent character of the compromise which is involved. the first question is this: whether or  it would be desirable to ask the federal reserve board to have the right to determine. based upon experience with the bill in the 3 years from 1969 to 1972. whether or  it should thereafter require disclosure on the dollarperhundred or on the percentage basis or whether to continue the alternate form even for a 3year period beyond that. again giving the federal reserve board that discretion. was that question considered by the committee. and what do the senator from utah and the senator from wisconsin think about it.
. may i point out that even the committee itself took account of the practicalities of the situation. under this bill. the banks would be permitted to do everything but actually sell lottery tickets. they could handle the money. they could perform many details of accounting. and so forth. it was considered. quite properly. that it would be ridiculous to bar them from functions which would be carried out in accordance with what they are best able to do. the only function from which they would be barred by this bill is the sale of lottery tickets. it seems to me that that should dispose of the morality argument. i e that senator proxmire spoke of odds of 4.000 to 1. in the first place. one has to buy the lottery ticket. you do  have to buy it unless you wish to. senator proxmires comment on the 4.000to1 odds is very interesting. on page 53 of the record. he asked mr. murphy. new york state tax commissioner. what the odds were. mr. murphy said. "there is 4.000 to 1." senator proxmire then said: and that this is primarily an investment in education. i can see objection at all. and i can see people who would want to invest and make a contribution to education and take a little chance also at getting a little return at the same time and doing this in a considered and thoughtful way.
i say to the senator that from the sound of that argument. the united states is really going to go into the regulation business on a large scale. we are  only going to regulate who can handle these tickets but we are also saying that new york state. as a state. is  making a fair disclosure to its people. as a trial lawyer of many years experience. if i were faced with that argument. i would say to the jury. "you are all over 21. and. based upon common experience. dont you think that anybody who takes the trouble to read that pamphlet will recognize very clearly. by a simple comparison of those two figures. that the payout is 30 percent." . there are just a few other arguments i would like to make here. i think the fundamental problem which underlies the arguments of the bills proponents is that they seek to give us the impression. although  actually using the words. that the banks are federal instrumentalities because their deposits are insured by the federal deposit insurance corporation. or because they are under regulation by the comptroller of the currency. or because they are members of the federal reserve system.
i have explained my disagreement with the senator on that score. i would also like to refer to the gold speculation. i understand from the bankers that it requires only a 6.5 percent margin to buy gold. in other words. for $100 million worth of gold purchases in europe. one must put up only $6.5 million. the reason for that is that the buyer has an absolute guarantee of a put against the united states because the united states has guaranteed probablyand it has legal or moral obligation to these speculators. but could change its policy at any minutethat anybody who puts the gold to us gets $35 in dollars. i can understand. even following the presidents viewthough i differ with it. for the reasons i will state againwhy the united states would be willing to pay out its gold in return for $35. but why the united states gives every speculator in the world a guaranteed put to buy his gold in dollar bills at $35 an ounce. i can understand. that makes absolutely sense at all. it is a progressionalmost beyond comprehensionlike a greek tragedy on the part of the administration even trying to help itself in a way that is even consistent with its own principles. i have urged. and i urge again. that the united states. which has an absolute and perfect right to do so. cease contributing to the london gold pool. let it go and let gold seek its own price. if it wants to go up. let it go up. let the speculators be confronted with uncertainty. but london speculator has a put on the u.s. treasury. that is the best buy in the world today. why should they  buy. second. i urge that we reassure our friends in the central banks that we will stop gold there. toobut just momentarilyand negotiate with them as to how much gold they really need. and provide for that. provided they do  make it available to their own nationals. which is a critically important point. and. finally. that there is ample gold. and we will join in supplying it for all industrial and other uses of the same kind. that scheme makes sense. it is my deep conviction that the administration must come to it. why they resist it. stubbornly and against all reality and against the evidence mounting momentarily. while we are talking. is absolutely beyond my understanding. and their attitude takes on the lineaments of a greek tragedy. it is absolutely right that this is but a momentary thing and that you still have to deal with the fundamental position of the dollar. which is catching up with us . the world is  waiting for us. if we were  stretched out on this cross of gold. we might be willing to ride out that storm. i believe we can ride out that storm. but because of the gold situation and because that is the base upon which the world is built. we have to deal with that situation or we can ride it out. therefore. as a practical matter. and as part of the remedies which are essential in this situation. we have to deal with the reduction of expenditures. with a reordering of priorities. and with a tax surcharge. ial leadership. be broken.
 has named a distinguished new yorker for administrator of the small business administration. though  of my political affiliation. i wish to say a word for a fine son of new york. howard samuels dedication and enthusiasm will assist him at sba. particularly to provide opportunities for miity entrepreneurship in our innercity ghettos. howard. samuels was instrumental in the development of the national alliance for business to create jobs in industry. and i believe he will be even more effective in developing more job opportunities through sba programs. without objection. i request that an article on mr. samuels. published recently in the washington post. be included in my remarks at this point.
. i am sure that with his great ability the distinguished senator from delaware has already adequately covered the situation. but sometimes in the senate little things go through which represent the fact that people just are  looking at them and for them as does the senator from delaware. and as we try to do in my office. the question before us is. what is equitable or what is equity. i heard a little of the argument of the senator from louisiana. which was that the purpose of the bill is to make small business completely whole. including interest on its losses. one has argued about its having been paid 100 percent. or whether it should be paid interest. the same as business. religious. charitable. and profit organizations. the change which would be made by the bill is that instead of religious. charitable. and profit organizations getting roughly 60 percent of their claims. the interest claims will. for practical purposes. wipe out that opportunity. the vote. therefore. on this amendment will raise that question very sharply. effort is made to do any equity beyond that. the essence of my argumenti shall  detain the senate. since i was late because of other exigenciesthe essence of my argument is. will the status quo be maintained. so that perhaps at least some fairer arrangement can be made. or is it proposed. at one stroke. to wipe out completely the opportunity for religious. charitable. and profit organizations. which include many different fine organizations. with respect to charitable deductions under our tax laws. many institutions have submitted facts and figures to us and to other senators. they represent some of the primary religious and similarly oriented institutions of various branches of the faiths in the united states. it is in an effort. at least. to preserve the status quo that is there involved that i would urge the senate to approve the action which the senator from delaware has called for and to reject the concept which is contained in the bill. a concept which will change completely and irrevocably the situation as it affects these very desirable claimants. in my judgment. i thank the senator from delaware for his sterling defense of the situation and hope that the senate will follow his judgment.
 nixon on behalf of the latin american countries by chilean foreign minister gabriel valdez as a result of the ministerial level conference of the principal countries of latin america at vina del mar in chile in late may of this year. private foreign investment continues to be welcomed in almost all latin american countries. the growth of adela over the past year is testimony to the fact. the most significant area of growth is represented in the fact that adela has become truly a joint venture with latin american capital. and it is my strong belief that this is the trend of the future that all private enterprise companies operating in latin america must take cognizance of. latin american governments. on the other hand. must recognize that uncertainties about the treatment foreign capital is to receive seriously inhibit needed private capital flows and that better definitions of the fields open to investors and of the rights and obligations that investors and foreign governments must observe on a multinational basis is becoming an increasingly urgent problem. over the past year ending march 31. 1969. the total assets of the adela increased to $117.682.435. an increase of more than $50 million. or 72 percent. over the march 1968 figure. the return on paidin capital has risen to 5.9 percenton an annual basisfor the first 9 months of the current fiscal year. compared to 4.2 percent for the full fiscal year ended june 30. 1968computed on paidin capital at the beginning of the fiscal year. these figures indicate that the adela has  only made a meaningful ecoic impact and contribution to development through privateenterprise efforts but also proved its feasibility by producing a reasonable return for its shareholders. adelas board of directors is recommending to the shareholders to further increase the authorized capital from $50 to $60 million. in the last 6 months. adela has become a truly joint venture with latin american capital. inasmuch as approximately $5 millionin u.s. dollarsin this latest increase of capital was subscribed by over 40 latin american companies from argentina. brazil. colombia. mexico. and venezuela. the operations of adela in latin america since 1962 in the sensitive area of private foreign capital investment has led to certain conclusions which provide possible useful general concepts and guidelines for international public financing institutions. for foreign investors in developing countries. and for governments of developing nations. these include: first. one of the greatest assets of the foreign corporation is its ability to inate and to introduce new techogy. therefore. a foreign corporation should be looked to both as a source of risk capital unavailable from local capital markets or international leading institutions as well. and particularly. as a provider of the indispensable khow and of techogy. therefore. the return on techogy is most likely to be higher to the international corporation than the return on capital. second. the role of the foreign corporation in existing or new latin american enterprise should be in the form of a joint venture without absolute control. foreign corporations should  take over businesses or established businesses that are already managed efficiently or could be run efficiently by latin american businessmen. effective control also is better exercised by providing excellence of techogy and management than by controlling 51 percent of a companys stock. third. the multinational investment company operating in latin america performs the role of a bridge between the capital markets of the industrialized world and latin america. one of the principal contributions of the foreign investment company is to break latin americas semiisolation from private international capital markets by placing latin american securities privately and publicly and by building up greater familiarity with latin american borrowers and investments within the international capital markets. fourth. an investment company should be more than a provider of money. its primary objective must be to provide entrepreneurial thinking. assistance and thrust. and to see projects through all stages from an idea or opportunity to a productive and profitable enterprise. fifth. multinational investment companies should promote local. subregional. and regional capital markets in latin america and actively promote. create. and finance multinational corporations. sixth. the adela experience has indicated that the absence of meaningful protection for miity interests. is perhaps one of the most important factors hindering the development of capital markets in latin america. seventh. modification or complete redrafting of commercial codes is one of the most needed and most urgent tasks before the legislatures of latin america.
 and the bureau of the budget annced that in these fiscal years the federal government will face a slight deficit rather than a slight surplus. unfortunately. the changing estimatesand estimates are often inaccuratedo  address themselves to the key problem. the key problem is  whether the budget has a surplus of $1.5 billion or a deficit of $1.8 billionthese margins are paper thin in an overall budget of approximately $200 billionbut rather whether the administration and the congress are taking the required measures to get our ecoy out of its present slump. to restore the confidence of the business community in the united states. and to halt the ravages of continued inflation. or are the administrations policies risking a serious recession without curbing the inflation. that could be calamitous. the deterioration of business and investor confidence is symbolized by the plummeting stock market. confidence is a state of mind. and state of mind has considerable influence on business and investment decisions. the events of this year have made the nations state of mind pessimistic. fearful. and uncertain. and we have reached the point where psychologymore than ecoicscould drive this country into a deeper recession. attorney general mitchell was the most recent of the administrations spokesmen to attempt to turn back the black mood that has enveloped our financial markets. if measured by stock market performance. his words failed in their attempted effect. the stock market continued to plummet. the reasons for this are clearthe words did  adequately offset such omis news developments as our involvement in cambodia. a budget deficit at a time when the nation had been warned by dr. burns a few days earlier that a surplus was essential. rising interest rates. mounting prices. mounting unemployment. civic violence. a treasury financing crisis. a liquidity squeeze. a deteriorating international balance of paymentsto name only a few factors on the dark side of the ledger. attorney general mitchell has said. and i agree with him fully. that "confidence is  issued. confidence must be built." that "the market is an accurate measure of investor confidence and has a real effect on both consumer and capital spending." and that "peace is the most bullish element in the market in our times." these quotes. which hopefully have  been taken out of context. help explain the sharp market drop after cambodia. to the average investor. peacethe most bullish element in the market in our timesseemed further down the road. mr. mitchell also stated that the track record of the administration is an essential element in building confidence. again. in all honesty. the track record of the administration is  that good from the strictly ecoic point of view. we are facing a deficit after a surplus was promised. we have been promised lower prices while key price indices continue their upward spiral. we have been promised an average 4.3 percent rate of unemployment for this year and our unemployment rate is already approaching 5 percent and we were told that the ecoy had turned the corner on its downward slide. while key ecoic indices continued to point to deeper recession. i can understand why the american investor feels an ecoic credibility gap which when added to cambodia. causes a crisis of confidence. to paraphrase mr. mitchell. to ige this would be putting ones head in the sand. and that is the one thing an administration should  do. to date it is clear that the authoritative measures that must be taken to win back this confidence have  been taken. and administration spokesmen are quick to kk down new suggestions for actionmatter that they emanate from arthur burns or from the joint ecoic committee of the congress. i ask unanimous consent that the text of attorney general mitchells remarks as they appeared in the wall street journal on may 20 be placed in the record at this point.
. i am very much hoed that the chairman of the federal reserve board. for whom i. and i k many other senators have the greatest respect. has endorsed this approach. and i very much hope it may have early consideration. as an important element for strengthening the ecoic vertebrae of the united states. by the appropriate subcommittee of the committee on banking and currency. i send the bill to the desk and ask that the text of the bill be printed in the record in addition to my introductory remarks which also explain the terms of the bill.
. i ask unanimous consent that administrator kleppes statement of march 9 before the committee on banking regarding the ceiling legislation. as well as a statistical chart prepared by sea showing ceiling levels and projections by program and overall. for fiscal year 1971 through 1974. be printed in the rzcoiw.
if i may make my position clear. in the absence of revenue sharing. which is  bogged down. in the absence of h.r. 1. which is  bogged down. and in the absence of any emergency appropriation for the tremendous drain on the states. which will bankrupt the states. let alone the federal government. i do  want to put a ceiling on this . i want to vote for the conference report. therefore. when the motion to table is made. i shall seek the yeas and nays. that is my only point.
. the american multinational corporations will come under searching inquiry by various committees of the 93d congress. the senate foreign relations committee has established a multinational corporation subcommittee which is looking into the foreign policy aspects of the overseas operations of the multinational corporation. in turn. the international trade and investment subcommittee of the senate finance committee will soon open public hearings on the multinational corporation and the foreign ecoic policy subcommittee of the house foreign affairs committee is scheduled to hold oversight hearings on the opic. these activities will go forward in a year when tax reform legislation and trade legislation will be before the congress. i would like to call the attention of my colleagues to the most recent of a wide number of studies which has  been conducted on the effects of the multinational corporation on american trade. american jobs. and the american ecoy. it would be my hope and expectation that as these review and legislative activities go forward that they will provide a complete picture of the role of the multinational corporation in our society and focus sufficient attention on the creative and inmovative influence these corporations may have on american ecoic life as well as on the excesses. today. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to a study which has just been published in the highly respected department of commerce magazine survey of current business entitled "u.s. foreign trade associated with u.s. multinational companies." i found the following conclusions particularly interesting: 1. in 1970 the exports and the imports assoclated with the 298 mncs in the sample were a sizable proportion of total us. merchandise exports and imports51 percent and 34 percent. respectively. 2. the trade surplus associated with the sample mncs increased significantly from 1966 to 1970. while the total u.s. trade declined. regarding the first conclusion the study points out that in 1970 mncassociated exports were $21.2 billion or 51 percent of total u.s. exports and mncassociated imports were $13.6 billion or 34 percent of total u.s. imports. i think that these figures effectively relate to the widely held myth that the activities of the u.s. multinational corporation weaken the trade position of the united states. i could add that in terms of the current account. these figures make it clear that the activities of the mnc  only strengthen the trade account but also provide a major and growing plus item on the investment account. conclusion 2 makes clear that the trade surplus associated with the mnc activities has been growing. again we k that a jobs issue is at stake in our trade balance and that a trade suplus leads to net job creation in the united states. again. this conclusion raises certain serious questions about the second widely held myth regarding the multinational corporationthat is. that on balance that the activities of the amc lead to a net job loss in the united states. if one uses the rough yardstick that every billion in trade causes a job swing of some 50.000. the surplus on the trade account of mnc activities clearly will have created many more jobs in the united states than jobs that have been lost. this point is reinforced by the findings of the study that "by industry. trade associated with mncs in manufactming accounted for an overwhelming share of all mnc trade in both 1966 and 1970. clearly. manufacturing is where the industrial jobs are and where the unions are significantly represented." in this connection i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the finding of this study that the trade account surplus would have been even greater except for the "substantial increase in petroleum imports from the foreign affiliates of u.s. oil companies." again. as we all k. the united states is increasingly dependent on these oil imports which are  displacing any domestic production or displacing domestic u.s. jobs. i ask unanimous consent that this article which appeared in the december 1972 issue of the survey of current business be placed in the record at this point. and since it is closely related to the points made in this article i ask unanimous consent that donald kendalls interview which appeared in the u.s. news & world report entitled "in trade: we have to be much tougher. as a nation" be placed in the record.
. a booklet prepared by the u.s. attorney for the southern district of new york. whitney th seymour. jr.. advises businessmen on the nature. extent. and prevention of whitecollar crime. it discusses steps that business executives should take to combat consumer frauds. securities violations. tax evasion. price fixing. commercial bribery. kickbacks. embezzlement. and the misuses of foreign bank accounts. this excellent booklet merits the closest scrutiny by businessmen everywhere. and will. i believe. be found most useful by my colleagues. and. because the cooperation of the business community is so essential in restraining and reducing whitecollar crime. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the whole booklet be printed in the record.
my answer to that is flatly  i absolutely part. with all the greatest respect in the world. from my friends who say they are. in the first place. the worst way in which you can get private enterprise to participate as a partner is to mandate it. they are sure to run from that like the most scared hares on earth. i have represented business. they would  k what else is going to be mandated. you have power to mandate it. anyway. because they can come in or . suppose we told the firemens fund insurance co. what they must do. forget it. they are gone. you can do it. in addition. you tie the hands of opic. why should they negotiate with opic. they will just tell them what they want. or otherwise opic goes out of business. here is what the firemens insurance co. said in a public statement. it is found on page 66 of the report: on ember 9. 1937. firemans fund american insurance companies issued a public statement again indicating that private insurance companies "might be willing to participate in a trial program on a sound fiscal basis with federal government reinsurance backup. but  with the kledge that direct government participation would end on a specified date several years hence." the statement continued: "the recommendations . . . which are extremely specific as to the schedules of industry percentages. precise reinsurance amounts. retentions. etc.. will. in our opinion.  create the proper atmosphere or incentive for the solicitation of private participation." . there is the public statement of the firemens insurance co. i ask senators to read that statement and say they have agreed to participate. that they are dying to participate. that they just love itthat would be absolute sense. the surest way to drive them away. would be the way this bill proposes. the second point: this company has had the initiative to try it out. they made a deal with lloyds of london to take up $400 million worth of reinsurance in one of the fields in which they operate. that is a very significant initiative. if you apply the principles of this bill to lloyds they have to cancel out because it is  that kind of deal. so. one. the firemens insurance co. has  said any such thing as claimed. the only insurance company with which they could make a deal would be out of business if this bill were agreed to. what do we suggest. let us remember what the committee did. withstanding these great arguments. this committee divided 9 to 7really by a vote of 9 to 8. because the senator from alabama
. i have given some of the evidence on which i base my representation. and. like senator buckley. i do represent a state which has large financial institutions. i might say the sentiment in the street. if it is any use to members. is there is great fear that we will break the back of the capital market by the federal debt which has to be incurred in this situation.
 he testified as to 1975. when the greater part of borrowing for fiscal year 1976 will take place. his testimony was that he estimated a drop of 27 million net business claims on the capital market from the 1973 market. that is what i said. by the way. the excerpts are here.
. the key factor in amendments presented by the agreement between the jewish organizations and the business roundtable is that the unilateral selection exception to the prohibitions in the bill will  be opened up to american firms resident in arab boycotting countries. under s. 69 as reported by the banking committee a unilateral selection could  be made by an american firm. s. 69 as reported thus shifted the entire burden of making unilateral selections to boycotting countries or their firms. the unilateral selection exemption in s. 69 is bad egh because it allows u.s. firms to kingly comply with the boycott of aher american firm even though the provision is intended to apply in a strictly limited range of transactions. while this amendment will retain the strict limitations it will also allow a u.s. firm to make a unilateral selection. thus. this amendment will sanction direct american firm participation in the implementation and enforcement of the arab boycott. the jewish organizations have attempted to placate the business roundtable by coming to an agreement on this issue. but the defect in the agreement is that it will  finallyonce and for allend the arab boycott of american firms. the jewish organizations were undoubtedly motivated by a desire to involve the business roundtable in the process of ackledging the seriousness of the arab boycott and to make a beginning toward ending it on a cooperative basis with the business community. compromise is the art of american politics and this agreement is about as far as either side can realistically go. as with all compromises of this nature on substantial issues a lot is left unsaid. but the senate can close its eyes to the issues. e of the jewish organizations or the representatives of the roundtable were elected to the u.s. senate. senators have an obligation to stand up and speak out on the issues. we have been threatened with the blame of loss of business and jobs if this legislation passes. the arabian american oil co. has threatened its suppliers with loss of business should this legislation pass in its present form. the rhetoric is grossly exaggerated. we have the largest ecoy in the world. we have need to go down on our knees for arab business. our people can be productively employed at home. there is much work in our inner cities that has to be done. i support an expansionary ecoy. primarily in the private sector to get our people back to work. it is a cruel hoax to raise the issue of jobs in connection with the arab boycott. those few jobs that depend on the giving up of our basic free market ecoy are just  worth the price we will all have to pay. the state department needs to use its muscle with the arabs. the united states is a stabilizing factor for peace in the middle east. the arab nations need to understand that free trade principles are in their best interests as well as ours. far too much attention has been paid on the inflammatory rhetoric of some businessmen who threaten their suppliers with loss of business unless s. 69 is softened. i do  intend to vote against this bill but these are to be construed as narrow exemptions to the basic free trade principles of the bill. we should all be clear that this situation is one that needs watching lest we sanction distortions in our free market ecoy to further the foreign policy objectives of others. and the debate on these provisions needs to make clear that they are  intended to destroy the prohibitions set forth in the bill.
i am glad that the senator is willing to do so. and i hope very much. too. that whatever other reform senators might have in mind. i think the independence of the federal reserve is a very profound tenet of our system. that does  relate to other forms of coordination with our policy. but i do think the idea that it is independent is a very strong point in the american banking system. however. i hope very much the committee will  give up its amendment for the reform of the financial institutions acts in their various forms. withstanding the language which has been imposed upon it in order to bring about this rather modest extension of regulation q.
. following the advice which we have received in this emergency from senators on the floor. including the chairman of the appropriations committee . the ranking member . senator proxmire. chairman of the banking committee. and senator muskie. chairman of the budget committee. we are going to try to do what they would like us to do. we believe their motivation is sympathetic to ours. hence. in order to facilitate the passage of this. we withdraw this amendment.
