. on january 20 of this year. i introduced legislation calling for the creation of a national ecoic conversion commission to study the increasingly urgent problem of planning for the ecoic dislocations caused by shifts in the volume and allocation of our military expenditures. our information at this stage is inadequate. as i pointed out in january: the paucity of literature in this field and the repetitive nature of much that has been written attests to the low priority we have assigned to this problem. one of the freshest and most imaginative approaches to the conversion problem has been prepared by seymour melman. a professor in the department of industrial and management engineering at columbia university. professor melman. has for the past 3 years. taught the only course on the "ecoics of industrial conversion" of which i am aware. one need  concur in all of professor melmans conclusions in these es.  agree with all of his observations to appreciate that he is coming to grips with the problem directly. i personally do  believe that we will see the end of high rates of military spending for many years to come. nevertheless. our military needs and priorities are constantly changing. a slight change in the contracting emphasis in the defense budget could throw thousands of people out of work. we can wait to meet these contingencies when they arise. we must plan for them . professor melman has suggested a number of approaches to this area and i commend his analysis to my colleagues and include it following my remarks in (by seymour melman)
. there is also the fur industry which i dare say is in just as bad shape as is the motion picture theater industry. that is why i am taking the position which i am taking today. the amendment which i prepared was to house bill 157. i talked it over with a number of persons and they said it was all right. if we want to make it a clean bill. or if we want to tack amendments to it. i shall  interfere or attempt to interfere. i shall go along. but. so long as this opportunity is provided to take care of motionpicture theaters. i invite attention to aher industry. which. to be sure. is  nearly so large or so influential as is the motionpicture industry. but which employs thousands upon thousands of persons. and which is already crippled to a considerable extent because of the excise tax  applied. it is an industry which needs help just as much. i dare say. as does the movingpicture industry. the movingpicture industry is faced with the same condition. and i can say. in all honesty and integrity. " you do  deserve it. the motionpicture industry deserves it. and we have got to save it."
. i well appreciate the position in which the acting majority leader is placed. but that has hing to do with the equity of the situation with which we are faced. we are singling out the motionpicture industry. i have  said for one instant that it does  need help. that it is  on the verge of collapse. i am  talking so much about the motionpicture industry in california as i am about the small movingpicture theaters. they are on the verge of collapse. maybe senators can point out still other industries which are in a bad situation as a result. to a considerable extent. of the excise tax. but i do  k of any industries other than the particular two. the fur industry and the movingpicture theater industry that are on the verge of collapse as a result of the excise tax primarily. those are the two about which i k. some industries have written me that they are getting by and can make the grade for aher year. but the fur industry is in a state of collapse right . why single out one industry and say it is to be saved. and refuse to afford relief to aher industry. which. in the course of aher year. and before we can possibly enact any legislation dealing with it. is likely to go out of existence to a considerable extent. that is why i rose. that is the sole purpose i have in mind.
. i dd  wish to take up any more time than necessary on this subject. but i shall insist upon 1 or 2 things. first. i am as strongly in favor of the bill itself. house bill 4152. as is any other senator. it is a very vital and a very necessary bill. however. i do  think that has anything to do with the pending amendment. king the membership of the distinguished committee on finance of the united states senate. i have doubt that whoever the conferees representing the senate may be. they will do a good job. and do the job which should be done. i have complete confidence in them. furthermore. i have question whatever about their getting into a legislative jam or conference jam as the result of an amendment which may be added to the bill. or perhaps several amendments which may be added. i think the conferees will be perfectly able. in their discretion. to decide what they ought to do. and that they will reach a decision promptly. i do  believe that this amendment would delay or jeopardize the proposed legislation. it has been suggested that this amendment would come with better taste if it were applied to house bill 157. which has to do with the elimination of the excise tax on motionpicture theater admissions. i do  question that. it might be in better taste. it is perfectly proper in this particular instance. in connection with the particular bill which we are  discussing. it probably would be more suitable in connection with the other bill. however. i have been given to understandand senators who have just spoken have so indicatedthat senators are going to resist every kind of amendment which may be offered to either of these bills. so what difference does it make. furthermore. i have been given to understand that it is more or less generally understood that the bill repealing the admissions tax on motionpicture theater admissions is supposed to go through without any amendment whatever in order to make it a clean bill. and avoid conference committee consideration. that is perfectly all right. but i can for the life of me see why that should prevent us from offering a perfectly suitable amendment in connection with aher bill. as we are doing today in this particular instance.
it is my understanding. of course. in any country that is a communist country. freedom as we k it does  totally exist. but if you look at london or if you look at paris or germany or if you look at austria and thcse countries which have a great tradition in the arts. they are spending much more than we are any way that you wish to total it up. the plain fact of the matter is that even a company as well kn as the metropolitan opera in new york is  able fully to make ends meet. the 196667 annual report of the met states: last ember we found ourselves in the most serious financial crisis to confront us for thirtyfive years. the report points out that box office receipts for a night at the met total $42.0.00 while it costs $59.000 to raise the curtain. the report states: furthermore the met. unlike the major opera houses in europe . . . has government subsidy on which to rely to make ends meet. the vienna opera. for example. covers only 30 percent of its costs at the box office. and la scala in milan only 20 percent. the balance is made up by the government. the theater is  making ends meet. e of our symphonies have adequate support. so you have a real fiscal problem there. . whether we wish to meet it is aher question. the fact that it exists i think is clear.
i would say to the gentleman from wisconsin first that i believe the presidents priority is wrong. the $22 million is simply inadequate to even begin to meet the deficit in the performing arts alone. and to begin to redress the major imbalance in the humanities.
i appreciate the comments of the gentleman. but the buffalo philharmonic. whose operating deficit is around $700.000. or 45 percent. needs this program very badly. so. i believe. does buffalo. the u.s. government spends only a fraction of that spent by other nations in the world for the arts. if we would readjust our priorities we would find more than egh to help the arts and the humanities in this country. and to significantly improve the quality of our lives and the character of our civilization. . i hope the amendment is defeated.
. the new york office of the american academy in rome is located in my district at 101 park avenue. distinguished members of its board of trustees and officers live in my district. this organization is one of the groups that makes the 17th congressional district of new york one of the world centers of culture. supporting. as it does. an academy in rome with private funds. it gives an opportunity to absorb the teachings of the past for the art of the future without the government spending taxpayers money. i am very pleased to support s. 281. a bill increasing the amount of real and personal property which may be held by the american academy in rome. my own bill to the same effect. cosponsored with senator javits. is h.r. 6149. see house committee report  557 of august 16. 1967. the senate report  238 is dated may 17. 1967. i originally introduced this bill in the 89th congress shortly after my election to congress. it was then h.r. 15502 and my comments in the congressional record. volume 112. part 9. page 12444. are herein set forth:
he is taxed by french taxes and he is going to be taxed more. let us  take that person as an example. we have had those movie actresses on .the riviera examples frequently here. i k the senator feels strongly that movie actresses with their furs. minks. and pearls and diamonds on the riviera should  be exempt from taxes. so we have them. $50.000. many. as i say. wanted to exempt it completely. but we did . we stuck to the $50.000. maybe we should have gone to $75.000 or more. but those people are subject to the taxes in those sophisticated industrialized countries. but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. that we are losing american jobs. if you are interested in american jobs and in increasing american exports. then every study that has been taken says that this is one of the ways to do it. if you do  care. that is something different. i do care. let me just say one other thing. . which is  the principal reason or even a substantial reason for this law. but the withdrawal of americans working overseas. i think. is unfortunate for our country for a host of reasons. i would like to have americans abroad. i think americans. despite the literature dealing with the ugly americanthat is a miity case. i think it is good to have americans abroad. i think it is good to have them with their families. i think it is good to have american children learning foreign languages. we have been fortunate in the past that we have been able to draw on these children of americans who have grown up abroad with their keen kledge of foreign languages. it has been my own personal experience from friends i k. who have been mis. children abroad. who learned arabic. indian. whatever the language may be. and they have come back as a result of that experience and have served our nation very well in matters unrelated to exports. so this is a fringe benefit from encouraging the presence of american abroad.
the list below is taken we have ever had in our history. from the national conference of may- this bill before us provides urgent ors readytogo book of more than help to people out there. it provides 4.000 public projects. it gives a sense of summer jobs. it provides help for head exactly where much of the money start. people need this. the senator would be going. is it specifically listed.. from rhode island may  need it. the senator from arkansas ks but you can judge the. whole counthoroughly well that these are  spe- try by our own circumstances. the city cifically listed as such. there are the of detroit is in deep trouble. as cities items that are in the community devel- are all across this country. it is time opment block grant section. that there we did something about it. is a possibility for. the last time the other side was in let us see how minnesota makes out. detroit was in 1980. when we inated well. minneapolis. mn. is going to con- reagan. we spent 8 years at the movies vert a brewery to an industrial park for with ronald reagan. $5 million. we k where we are today. and it how about maryland. see. maryland is time to create some jobs in this is  on this current list. i do  country. k what happened there in mary- the presiding officer. the senland. ators 30 seconds have elapsed.
 carter in the last election campaign took an affirmative. active posture about the problems facing the arts and the need to make the arts more widely available to all americans. they knew when they took that stance what the cruel fiscal facts were. for there has been a frightening acceleration of costs in meeting the interest and demands of the american people in the arts. the earnings gapthe difference between the revenues from all sources and the operating costs of institutions and the exhibitions and productions they mounthas widened despite greater box office revenues. houses sold out almost continually. a shift in corporate and foundation giving to the arts. the enactment of municipal funding formulas to promote cultural activities. and substantial increases in state appropriations for the arts. in this last respect alone. state appropriations for the arts nearly doubled. from $34 million to $61 million. in the 2year period between 1974 and 1976. and legislatures are proposing and expected to enact additional increases in in the past 2 or 3 years it has become starkly apparent that these deficits of and in our great arts institutions are the overwhelming problem facing the arts in america today. the litany of adverse examples mounts. we have all read of major dance companies in new york city who were forced to curtail their season because of rising costs which they simply could  absorb. and the problem of overwhelming deficits is  endemic to new york city alone. the plight of arts institutions in my home state of massachusetts is aher poignant reminder of the precarious state of such institutions all across our country. one bay state institution alone. the boston museum of science. illustrates the problems faced by our cultural institutions. in the last 10 years. attendance at the museum has increased from 528.000 a year to 820.000. yet at the same time. operating expenses more than doubled. increasing from $1.049 million to $2.476 millionthe net result of which leaves a total deficit from $500.000 to $700.000 per year. aher major venerable cultural institution in boston. the museum of fine arts. is operating at a deficit of more than a half million dollars a year. the world rened boston symphony orchestra has a difference between earned income and operating expenses of $2 1/2 million a year and even after fundraising drives and grants. has a yearly deficit of almost $750.000. these are some of the oldest. most established. and best managed institutions in the country. what is true of their finances is equally true of younger and less generously endowed institutions in massachusetts and all the other 49 states. and these deficits are occurring despite herculean efforts by the institutions themselves to hold expenses down in the face of inflation and increased demands. staff has been reduced. needed salary increases have been drastically cut or deferred. physical plant repairs have been postponed. admission prices have been increased. and in the cases of museums. hithertofore free to the public. admission charges have been instituted. often services have had to be cut. as the case with museums closing certain days and curtailing the evening hours which made it possible for more working people to enjoy the privilege of appreciating fine art. but. only so much can be done to hold down costs. it is  possible simply to lop off a cellist or a couple of violinists in the boston symphony orchestra without a corresponding cut in quality. it is  possible to remove guards from a priceless art collection. it is  possible for these often vast physical plants to avoid increased energy costs. which have quadrupled in massachusetts in the last 4 years. and i feel. with a conviction i can too strongly state. that there is one more alternative which is also  possible. and that alternative is further raising the price of admission to our arts institution. indeed i fear. i k. that too many people are already discouraged from attending arts performances because of the prices that are  being charged. we can make enjoyment of the arts an elitist recreation. a byproduct of wealth. we must instead make it possible for those who love the arts. who want the joy and fulfillment they bringof any and all incomesto participate in cultural activities in america. and to insure this we must attack the problem of deficits and assure greater financial stability for our nations cultural institutions. this problem of financial stability was the great challenge facing the senate and house education subcommittees when the national endowment for the arts was reauthorized last year. and to solve this dilemma the congress authorized a new endowment program. the challenge grants. challenge grants will be onetime grants for up to 3 years. their purpose is to help our cultural institutions mount campaigns which reach into their communities to encourage new contributors. and such campaigns do offer permanent succor. for pilot studies show that 75 percent of new contributors continue to give after the initial fund raising drive is over. that regenerating fact can be overemphasized. unlike most endowment grants which require a dollar to dollar match. challenge grants will require three federal dollars to match each federal dollar. thus. if the congress appropriates the full $12 million of the endowments request for challenge grants in fiscal year 1977. that amount will generate $36 million in the first year and. according to fundraising experts. $27 million in succeeding years. very modest amounts of federal money will therefore go a very long way in addressing the problem of negligible cash reserves which affects most of our cultural institutions and makes them particularly vulnerable to ecoic pressures. our cultural institutions have traditionally relied on many sources of financial support. and this pluralism must be sustained if they are to remain independent and vital. challenge grants will strengthen these independent sources of funds and will put institutions on ice that they must be more concerned with longrange stable funding sources and in digging roots deeper into their communities. and the constituents of these institutions will be forced to recognize what a loss it would be in their lives if the cultural activities they enjoy and too often take for granted were longer a part of their lives. the need for the new challenge grant program is very immediate and very real. more than 350 applications have been received at the national endowment requesting nearly $126 million in grants. twentysix institutions in massachusetts alone have applied for challenge grants. the first endowment review. which eliminated those applications requiring more work. still brought total requests of $80 million. even limiting funds to the very best applications. the endowments proposed funding of $12 million will fall far short of demand. the challenger grant program is  intended to require more and more federal dollars year after year. the program is  authorized for 4 years and nancy hanks. chairman of the endowment. has testified that the job of providing our great cultural institutions with some measure of financial security can be accomplished within this 4year timespan. however. unless we act . in a few years the situation will be so drastic that our arts institutions will be turning to the congress in need of massive infusions of federal funds. that is why i truly believe it is essential that we appropriate at the very minimum the budget of $12 million for the new challenge grants. regretfully. the house of representatives has denied $3 million of the endowments request for challenge grants for fiscal 1977. considering the overwhelming need for these funds. i urge my fellow members of the appropriations committee and the senate as a whole to restore the $3 million. i shall actively support the full $12 million both in committee and on the floor. there are few programs. if any in government. that have rewarded federal investment as well as moneys appropriated for the arts endowmentin terms  only of encouraging matching funds but also in creating and making it possible for new audiences to enjoy the arts all across our country. in the inner city as well as the wealthier suburbs. in small towns as well as larger cities. we have built in the johnson. nixon. and ford administrations a magnificent beginning. a faltering federal commitment at this time will jeopardize much of the good work that has been done and endanger the viability. if  the very existence. of some of our most treasured cultural and arts institutions. we must  allow this to happen.
at the proper opportunity i shall seek time in which to address myself to the subject of the informational media guaranty fund. i should like to ask the senator from texas about that matter. on page 11 of the committee report i e that the committee approved the sum of $3 millionan increase of $500.000 over the amount voted by the house. but $500.000 below the budget estimate which was requested. i have had a very considerable body of information given to me on the problem of the bookpublishing concerns. as that problem relates to the informational media guaranty. and also in connection with the competition they are meeting with soviet books which are being sold abroad at very low prices. i shall deeply appreciate it if the senator from texas will inform us of the thinking of the subcommittee on this subject. perhaps a little later i shall go into the subject more deeply.
. $1 million will buy $2.5 million of guaranteed issuance of books and publications. the committee said on page 9 of the report: testimony before the committee indicated that this media program was operating on a demand rather than a need basis. in a letter dated april 26. 1961. to the house committee. the director said that he was  satisfied that the program. as presently authorized and operating. was achieving its objectives in the most effective manner and that he was ordering a review of the program. at the time of the hearings. july 11. 1961. the director said that review findings have. as yet been made. pending completion of the directors review. the $1.500.000 together with the funds available through sales of foreign currency. etc.. should permit the agency to operate an adequate program in fiscal 1962. in order to give senators ice. because of the lateness of the hour. i ask for the yeas and nays on the amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent to have the name of the senator from pennsylvania added to my amendment  395. of which i am the sponsor. relating to repeal of the tax on theater admissions. the special problems of which i shall deal with at an appropriate time.
. in kind deference to the senator from louisiana and after consultation with him. i have changed my amendment so as to reduce the tax on live theater admissions from 10 percent to 5 percent. this would be a great service to the long list of citiesthere are about 30 of themthat  have such theaters. i hope the senate will agree to the amendment and that the senator from louisiana will take it to conference.
. i send to the desk. for appropriate reference. a bill to repeal the federal excise tax on tickets for live dramatic and musical performances. it will be remembered that this is a measure which i have enthusiastically supported before. the last time the measure was before the senate. on june 25. 1964. it was defeated by a vote of 32 to 54. however. the senate agreed by voice vote to a reduction of the tax on live theater admissions from 10 to 5 percent. the senate amendment was  included in the final excise tax bill as enacted. this particular 10percent excise tax. which pertains to live dramatic and musical performances in the commercial theater. does  produce very much revenue. the treasury has advised me that revenue collection is within the range of $6 to $10 million. the tax has been found to be a deterrent to attendance at theater performances throughout the united states. this country  has 200 yearround theaters. a large number of summer stock theaters. and some 75.000 professional groups. the new york city theater industry. as well as theaters in other areas. is in a terrible financial plight . rising costs have necessitated increases in ticket prices. when an industry has rising costs it seriously considers raising prices or suffer the financial consequences. the imposition of the 10percent tax places even heavier burdens on those interested in attending these cultural events. in practically every country of the free world. as well as the communist world. the theater is subsidized by government. that practice is  pursued here. though we are hopeful that s. 1483. the bill establishing a national foundation on arts and humanities. will render some assistance to the theater industry. the assistance. however. would be rendered to profit theaters. for all of these reasons. i strongly urge the senate to take action upon this measure at long last. a small amount of revenue is involved in the 10percent excise tax. but represents a large barrier to the growth and development of the theater in this country. the theater in the united states represents one of our major cultural developments. it is a field in which we lead the world. i would like to keep it so: the elimination of the 10percent excise tax on admissions will help the theater to survive. we have every expectation that. in spite of the repeal of this tax. the theater admission prices will remain stable. the theater industry throughout our country is  suffering financially. and the elimination of this excise tax would help greatly. i hope that early action on this measure may be taken by the finance committee.
. i wish to say to the senator from wisconsin that i am sympathetic to what he is trying to do. we all realize it may  be done . but the senator renders a great national service in fixing attention on the validity of the depletion allowance in oil. as matters stand . . every time you ask people about an unfair tax break. in almost any direction. they will immediately throw up to you the fact of the several billion dollar oil depletion which has been on the books for so long and which is so unfair. it sort of opens the door to anything. if that is what you are going to pull in the national establishment. undoubtedly. that is too sweeping. but etheless it does indicate a deep national disquiet as to the validity of this particular operation in taxes. i believe the situation needs to be changed. and i believe that the senator from wisconsin has rendered us all a fine service in studiously calling attention to the fact that this is unfinished business for the nation. i have doubt that if this kind of situation continues. we will. in much less time than it has existed so far. make a change. the senator from delaware [mr. winlims] has been a leader in this field for a long time. i have always voted with him. and i express my sympathy with what is the educational activity being undertaken.
i think the committee has done a great job. and we are all deeply indebted to the chairman. and to the senator from illis . ranking miity member. who. in a sense. took my own place in the appropriations committee in considering this bill and doing this very fine work. i k the labor which is involved. when i use the word "gratitude." i understand what it means in terms of the hours and days spent. my own interest is very real and very great. as i offered the first authorization bill in the house of representatives in 1949. and worked from then until 1965 to get it enacted. . in effect. called for full funding of the two endowments at the level authorized by the congress last year. i regret especially the cut in funds for the arts which has been recommended by the committee. for it seems to me that the arts endowment gives the federal government. the congress. and the american people far more for each tax dollar than almost any agency in the federal system. the arts endowment. through cautious and consistently sound fiscal planning. has created a record which ought to be the envy of every government agency. for it has used limited funds to create new and greatly expanded resources in its field. by law. each dollar provided by the endowment for institutional support is granted on at least a 1to1 matching basis. in actual practice. nearly every dollar obligated by the arts endowment has generated between $31/2 to $4 in additional funds for the arts from private sources. philanthropic foundations. and state and local governments. even purely as an investment. the arts endowment deserves every penny the congress can provide for it. i recognize the need for ecoy. i k the emous pressures  existing within our ecoic structure. and i am in complete sympathy with the burdens placed upon the members of the subcommittee and the committee on appropriations to find reasonable ways to minimize the costs of government. yet i k. too. that this is one area in which the congress can ill afford to ige the rational pleas for assistance which are coming from almost every arts organization. individual american artists and from thousands of citizens in every state and region in our country. the truth is that the $1 million decrease. if it were to be restored in the appropriation as the house of representatives provided. could create an additional $3 million for the arts in all parts of the united states. and. in so doing. it could have a more profound and beneficial effect on the lives of american citizens than many of the appropriations approved by the congress at far higher levels. the needs of the arts organizations in our country are rapidly acceleratingand for excellent reasons. according to the association of american museums. the total number of visits to museums during 1970 was 650 millionmore than 3 /2 times the total number of individuals in the nation. throughout the country. our arts institutions and our individual artists are responding readily to increasing demands for their talents and their services. poets and painters. sculptors and dancers. actors and musicians are becoming actively involved with the public education system and they are producing astonishing results among our children and their teachers. todays symphony orchestras have become a vital part of the everyday life in their communities. playing concerts in the parks during the summer. visiting schools for performances and conducting seminars for student musicians throughout the year. so. too. are our regional professional theaters. our museums. and our dance companies. through endowment programs such as assistance to the symphony orchestras. the whole field of music education is being vastly augmented in some communities. it is interesting to e that 47 percent of the grants made by the endowment to orchestras this past year were for programs oriented directly toward young people. either in the schools or in special concerts. through endowmentaided touririg programs. such as those funded through the federation of rocky mountain states. hundreds of thousands of american citizens will have an opportunity never enjoyed before to see the major. professional arts companies of the united states. this past year. for example. the denver symphony played concerts  only in lander and rock springs. wyo.. but was also heard in a special concert by the men in the wyoming state penitentiary at rawlins. similar touring programs took the st. paul chamber orchestra to highland park. ill.. and marion. ohio. and enabled the orchestra to conduct indepth residency visits to mankato and wia. minn.. and in cedar falls. iowa. without exception. it appears. the managers and members of our symphony orchestras agree that support from the national endowment for the arts has made the difference between severe financial difficulty and the kind of tentative stability which has enabled them to continue extremely worthwhile community programs. in detroit. for instance. the orchestra. with the aid of an endowment grant. was able to perform a series of 30 innercity school programs. had additional funds been available. the orchestra could have raised that total to 50 appearances. similar grants made it possible for the chicago symphony to expand its public service program. touring to five additional illis communities. for the cleveland symphony to inaugurate its outstanding satellite performance and service program in neighboring towns and cities and for the baltiie symphony to expand its regional program throughout the state of maryland. to fully understand the significance oi the budget the arts endowment submitted for this fiscal year. it is necessar5 to look at some of the programs the endowment hopes to carry out. this year for instance. increased funds will make it possible for the agency to initiate a significant museum assistance program for special exhibitions. curatorial training. conservation. and the purchase of work by american artists for the first time. on a modest. trial basis during this past year. the endowment reached 79 museums in 33 states. although it has recognized the vitality of communitybased arts organizations from its beginning. the endowment has been unable to establish a program in this area at a meaningful level until this year. these are projects which go to the heart of the demands people are  putting on the arts. projects which directly involve thousands of young children and adults in communities across the nation. additional funding will make it possible for the endowment. working with the u.s. office of education and the arts councils which  exist in each of the 50 statesto expand a highly successful program placing professional creative artists in classrooms throughout the country. surely. if there is one investment worth making this year. it is in this significant effort to increase creativity in our schools and restore some flexibility to our education systems. most of our major arts institutions are in serious financial difficulty. for example. last year the brilliant alvin ailey dance co. was nearly forced to disband and only through lastminute efforts was this prevented. later. the company went on a triumphal tour of morocco. algeria. tunisia. the soviet union. france. and england where its performers were widely hailed as our finest ambassadors. confronted by increasing demands on their services and facilities. sharply rising attendance accompanied by mushrooming costs. many of our major museums are being forced to cut back their staffs. reduce the number of rooms available for public visits and overextend their security systems. as a result. the detroit institute of the arts. one of the nations finest museums. has been forced to close a third of its galleries to the public because it lacks funds for proper security. and right here in the district of columbia. the corcoran gallery is unable to insure its valuable collection and facilities because of inadequate security. matter where we turn. public demand for the arts is increasingbut so are the costs of providing those services the people want and need. despite the fact that the national endowment for the arts has discouraged arts organizations from making applications for funds unless there was a real prospect for assistance. the number of applications received by the endowment in legitimate fields. in which programs were operative. has increased emously during the past 2 years. in fiscal 1970. for instance. the arts endowment received a total of 1.383 applications totaling $26 million in requests. this past year. in fiscal year 1971. i the total number of applications rose t( 2.070 and the amount of those request. was $54.5 million. i of that total. endowment officials estimate that less than 90 percent represented legitimate pleas for assistance from organizations and individuals who * were simply responding to the increasing demands being placed upon them by the people they were serving. quite clearly. the needs of the artsand the demand of our people for the artsare demonstrably growing. for that reason. i am convinced that even the modest reduction of the appropriation for the national endowment for the arts is undesirable. in the light of the endowments productive use of its funds. and on its record of encouraging far greater distribution of the arts to every american citizen who wants to enjoy them.
. i introduce legislation to correct certain inequities created by the 1969 tax reform act which disallowed tax deductions for the full market value of charitable contributions of art works by the original artist. as you k. the 1969 reform law was aimed at cutting off tax deductions to politicans who donated their public papers to profit institutions. and to donations of merchandise by large companies. artists. however. were caught in the broad sweep of the reform act and lost a previously held ability to deduct from their income tax the full market value of work contributed to profit organizations like museums. universities. and libraries. it is significant. i believe. that prior to 1969 nearly all the works received as gifts by the national collection of fine arts were donated by the original artists. as a result of the 1969 act. contributions by the original artist have virtually ceased. with the additional handicap that gifts promised prior to the act have  been donated. it is well kn that the late igor stravinsky decided against giving his manuscripts to the library of congress as previously intended. and instead put the manuscripts. valued at $3.5 million. up for public sale largely as a result of the change in the tax law. the bill i offer today also resolves aher aoly created by the tax reform act of 1969. under that law. patrons of the arts continue to be able to deduct the full market value of art works they donated to profit organizations while artists may . i believe that artistdos should have a similar privilege. my bill. which incorporates safeguards to insure against abuse of the provision by artists. would allow artists to deduct 75 percent of the market value of their work. and would require that these deductions be taken only to the extent the artist had artrelated income. that last provision will insure that fulltime artists are encouraged to donate their work and that others will  be able to take advantage of the provision. i believe that the value of important contributions of major works of art to our museums. libraries. universities. and other cultural institutions will far outweigh the modest revenue lostestimated at under $10 million per yearto the federal government. congressman bsademas is today introducing a companion bill in the house and i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill be printed in the recoad at the conclusion of my remarks. together with an article from the washington starnews of april 8. 1973. discussing the subject.
. during the august recess the nation commemorated the 10th anniversary of the march on washington for jobs and freedom. this massive and peaceful demonstration to petition for the redress of grievances marked a turning point in the nations history and was largely instrumental in mobilizing public and congressional support for the passage of the extraordinary civil rights legislation of the 1960s. as a participant in the march. i well remember that dayaugust 28. 1963. it was a bright. sunny day and the fears and tensions which had preceded the march evaporated early as we realized that the demonstration would be peaceful. dignified. and joyous. one who was there can ever forget the sight of 200.000 americansblack and whitemassed around the reflecting pool.  the eloquence of the speakers on the steps of the lincoln memorial. we have come a long way since 1963 and the statute books of this land are . finally. in the main. colorblind. but the kind of true equality we pledged ourselves to attain that day is a goal we have  yet attained and must be constantly working toward. and that is a harder task for it requires.  just changing laws. but the practices and even the hearts of men and women. too. mention of the march on washington would be complete without commemorating dr. martin luther kings inspiring speech that day. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point together with an essay by bayard rustin. appearing in the current naacp journal the crisis. entitled "the washington marcha 10year perspective." and four articles from the new york times examinirg "conditions and attitudes in black america 10 years after the march on washington."
. the basic reason for the amendment is that the universities. libraries. and museums of the country are suffering from an existing provision of law which dates from 1969. before 1969. the law was indeed just general and broad. if an artist gave his work to a museum. whatever was the value of that work was a gift. just like any other gift. at that time. the tax code was amended so that the artist was deprived of that opportunity. all a painter could deduct was the cost of his canvas and paint. but the collector was  deprived of that opportunity. if he were a buyer of art and the value appreciatedlet us say he bought a painting for $500 and it became worth $50.000he could give that to a museum and get a full $50.000 charitable deduction. and he can do that today. so the law discriminated as between the man or woman who did the work and the person who acquired such a work. even if he acquired it from that very same artist. aher aaly in the law was if that artist died and his estate had to be valued for tax purposes. his estate had to pay an estate tax on the full value.  on the value of the paint and the canvas but on the full value. these are the aalies which the 1969 law introduced. there is  much involved. as i said. the estimate of the treasury department on my bill is about $5 million a year. it is an order of magnitude that. obviously. they can calculate exactly. it is about $5 million a year. that estimate comes from the treasury department experts. but the consequences of this proposal for the american people are very great. let me just describe to my colleagues what has happened. the museums have suffered a drastic dimunition of gifts from artists. particularly those who have done contemporary work within this very same period from 1969 until today. i believe most of my colleagues have heard from museums precisely for that reason. let me give an example of the new york city museum of modern art. one of the great museums of the country. during the 2year period. 196869. the new york city museum of modern art received 125 donations by artists of their own works. in the 4year period. 197275. the museum received only 28 donations. in the critical and very valuable field of painting and sculpture. the reduction was from 42 works of art received in 1968 and 1969. to only one received in 197275. the artists feel very strongly about this as evidenced from a very interesting point. the national endowment on the arts. which we established. and i am very proud to have been one of its initiators. wrote a letter to senator long on april 29. 1976. stating these very considerations which i have described. and many others. i ask unanimous consent that that letter may be printed in the record.
the manuscript division of the library of congress reports the following. they say: prior to the enactment of the tax reform act of 1969. the manuscript division received an average of 15 to 20 new manuscript gifts each year from authors and musical composers. the following table illustrates the gifts to the library of congress in this field: calendar year 1968 ------------------- 20 calendar year 1969 ---------------------17 calendar year 1975 ---------------------2 calendar year 1976 to date -------------- 3 this is similar to the comparison i made for the museum of modern art in the city of new york. i ask unanimous consent that the report be printed in the record.
the manuscript division of the library of congress reports the following. they say: prior to the enactment of the tax reform act of 1969. the manuscript division received an average of 15 to 20 new manuscript gifts each year from authors and musicial composers. the following table illustrates the gifts to the library of congress in this field: calendar year 1968 -------------------20 calendar year 1969 -------------------- 17 calendar year 1975 -------------------- 2 calendar year 1976 to date ------------- 3 this is similar to the comparison i made for the museum of modern art in the city of new york. i ask unanimous consent that the report be printed in the record.
the manuscript division of the library of congress reports the following: prior to the enactment of the tax reform act of 1969. the manuscript division received an average of 15 to 20 new manuscriot gifts each year from authors and musical composers. the followinq table illustrates the gifts to the library of congress in this field: calendar year 1968 ------------------- 20 calendar year 1969 ------------------- 17 calendar year 1975 -------------------- 2 calendar year 1976 to date ------------- 3 this is similar to the comparison i made for the museum of modern art in the city of new york. i ask unanimous consent that the report be printed in the record.
