. debate being limited on the measure  before the house. h. r. 7565. a bill to amend the emergency price control act of 1942. i am going to consume but very little time in discussion of the measure. i want to state emphatically that unless the measure is materially amended i shall vote against its passage. there is one more cognizant of the danger of inflation than i. and one any more ready to enact legislation that will thwart inflation. but i do  expect to be a party to any discriminatory legislation. we are today facing our greatest crisis. our nation is passing through the most trying days of its life. and we are facing our hardest test. we. therefore. can permit ourselves to play any favors among our people. it is a day of sacrifice. and all must share equally in this burden. we must sacrifice to save the life of freedom and justice. under the bill as it  stands. the producers of farm products. turpentine. timber in its processed forms. such as cross ties and lumber. are so greatly discriminated against that the result of the application of the provisions of this bill will be to destroy the possibility of even mal production of these commodities. to say hing about an increased production. our armed forces and our civilian population must be fed. and. frankly. the farmers in my section of the nation. sawmill men. and turpentine producers. are going to be forced to close shop unless the ceiling is placed high egh on their products to permit them to pay the prices they have been having to pay for labor and will have to pay under this bill. farm labor can be had at a price that the farmers can afford to produce the necessary products for the successful prosecution of the war. which also applies to the producers of cross ties. lumber. and turpentine. i. therefore. shall be forced to vote against this measure unless amendment is allowed that will adequately protect the rights of this portion of our citizenry. who has in the past. and who will be expected in the future. to play a very important part in the progress of our war effort. i thank you.
when it is right i do. i would like to ask the gentleman 2 things. 1. whether he feels that the high. fixed 90 percent of parity. supports can be reconciled with a falling net income to the farmer. of which the farmer is complaining bitterly. therefore showing that the policy did  seem to be helping him very much. second. whether it can also be reconciled with the consumers in. the cities paying twice for food. once in taxes and again in the high prices helped to be maintained by these high fixed farm price parities supported by the government.
as we look at the report. we see that of the 1.5 million farmworkers 34 percent earned less than 75 cents an hour in 1965. fifty percent earned less than $1 an hour. the average hourly earnings of agricultural workers as of july 1. 1966. was $1.01 in the united states. is it  clear that. if there is anything that would drive people with any kind of enterprise from the farm. it would be the paucity of earnings on the farm. as has been made very clear here. every effort has been made. and indeed overmade. to exempt the family farms where coverage is  necessary to their social viability and which can last without regard to the minimum wage. as to the reward to which agriculture is entitled. i point out that here again the report is most illuminating. for it shows that the rate of productivity. the output per man hour in agriculture. has increased a little more than twice as much as it has in agricultural industry. productivity in agriculture was 2.7 times as great in 1964 as in 1947. whereas in agricultural industry it was 1.6 times as great. so on the basis of productivity. there is more than ample justification for the basic wage of the farmworker to go up. . i supported it strongly in the committee. i do  pretend to be an expert on farm life at all. and i state very frankly that my qualifications are in totally different fields.
. when we consider the myriad problems of our cities. we should  lose sight of one of the root causes of these problemschanging techogy that has eliminated agricultural jobs and displaced millions of illeducated. untrained farmworkers. the trek of such unfortunate people from rural areas to central city slums over the last two decades has cost the nation billions in welfare and social programs. the cost in human misery. in losses through crime and property deterioration in slum areas can even be estimated. this migration to the cities is continuing. and. of course. we in congress deal with the problems constantly. we are agreed. i believe. that the best solution would be to make it possible for the displaced farm families to find alternatives that would allow them to stay in their home regions. three years ago congress acted to do something about this basic problem when we passed the public works and ecoic development act that led to the establishment in the department of commerce of the ecoic development administration. we have in this agency a vehicle for helping lagging areas to stop and reverse the tide of inmigration that is inundating the cities. because of the job eda is doing in getting people to work together to help themselves and because of the great promise its programs hold for the nation. i should like to point to the growing need for funds for its operation. eda. underthe direction of assistant secretary of commerce ross d. davis. is helping ecoically lagging areas to reduce high rates of unemployment. raise family incomes and. most important. to stem the tide of outmigration. however. the agency is operating with less than half of the funds authorized by the 89th congress. the act provides $810 million a year for the ecoic development program. but the bill under consideration would appropriate only $274.740.000 for the fiscal year ending june 30. 1969. eda works with the people in more than 900 lagging areas in the planning and carrying out of projects to stimulate the growth of private industry and the creation of jobs. one of the most promising aspects of the program is the linking together of several counties in an ecoic development district to help solve problems that cross political lines. a district can include ecoically healthy countries. as well as at least two with low income and unemployment problems. this has been quite effective in my own state of new york. development in a district revolves around a growth centerusually a city of  more than 250.000. the creation of industry in the growth centers will provide jobs and increased incomes for residents of the lagging areas in districts. because of the need for sound planning and preparation. the district program has been in operation for only 1 year. but already growth center projects to provide jobs for displaced farm families are underway. the success of the ecoic development district program will help ease the burden on the cities and help revitalize the ecoies of the nations rural areas. this success may be limited. however. because of the limited funds we are providing. while edas investment in ecoic development is intended to serve only as a catalyst. i feel that we should be cognizant of the financial handicap under which the agency is operating. we will do well to maintain close liaison with eda to assure that this vital agency has sufficient resources to sustain the ecoic development process it has ignited in so many of our depressed areas.
 has his hands tied by the lack of power i call for today. the piesident can only jawbone. but it has teeth. mr. rees. the director of the council. gives it all away when he says: if the u.s. steel executives dont respond pretty soon. ill get on the phone. we can stand a new round of big price increases in basic steel. which will feed a new burst of inflation and create new wage demands. we need to review it  in this congress. and we can do it with the amendments i have offered. to wait until the 94th congress may let the situation run out of control.
