 of the subcommittee. the gentleman from alabama . as well as the subcommittee for having done an outstandingly fine job. i was  on that subcommittee. so perhaps i can say it with a certain objectivity and propriety. there are two points i would like to leave with the house in this situation. first. this bill is an excellent bill because it fights ecoic warfare with a precision rifle and  with a blunderbuss. we hale heard a lot of statements. well intentioned and sincere on the floor here and on the floor in the other body about cutting off all trade with the soviet bloc to bring them to their senses. cutting it off completely. isolating them from the world ecoically. i understand the ultimate objective and agree with it. few seem to recognize. however. that for centuries western europe drew its very lifebloodgrain and timber and other materialsfrom eastern europe. and such relationships can be suddenly and completely broken by severing those ancient ties which existed for centuries with a sharp knife. it can be done and is done in this bill. of course. as to arms and materials strategic to war preparations. but that still leaves a broad area as to which cotton was just given as an example. in this third category ecoic warfare is a subtle proposition. you can get awfully hurt and you can get greatly benefited. it all depends on how the job is done and on that this bill does a fine job. the subcommittee is entitled to the thanks of the whole country for that beyond peradventure. second. we must understand that when we ask our friends to sever long standing ecoic relationships with parts of the world  in the soviet bloc. as we are in the process of doing . somebody has to help them to make up for that. during a transition stage. so. let us get an understanding that in dealing with the peoples of western europe that are breaking off long standing ecoic relationships that we have to help them to make up the deficits in the period which they are  going through. the transition period. while world ecoic relationships are realined.
i am sorry. it may be a millstone to the senator. but the vote will show how much of a millstone it is to the senate. let me finish by saying that i am  getting around anything. have intention of doing so. and could  if i would. but i am going beyond what the legislation said. which is what i said. i went beyond that to show how this section ties in with the rest. the senators argument and mine can dispel that. this says what it says. the law is what counts. unless there is something bad about it. i have done my utmost. because i thought that this statement of the managers was limitedand i am  trying to repudiate it--even if it were made by the house alone. i am  trying to repudiate it--they are entitled to full faith and credit. too. but i went beyond that. that is what i endeavored to prove in the succeeding section of this measure. in addition. i say to the senator from missouri. as one of its original sponsors and one of the stalwarts with respect to the bill. let us  miss the forest for the trees. the fact is that never in the history of this country has an effort been made to restrain the war powers in the hands of the president. it may  suit my colleague 100 percent. but it will make history in this country such as has never been made before.
