. that is the way in which the american mind can determine what it wants to see our government do. the u.s. civil rights commission is absolutely indispensable to that process. finally. there is glossing over the factand even an empty senate chamber does  gloss over it. because it is pretty well taken for granted that this measure will passthat the situation is extremely tense so far as the civil rights struggle is concerned. we are really engaged in a battle of forces. will the forces of government act in time. and effectively egh. so that the people will  feel that they must take the law into their own hands and repair to the streets instead of to the courts. this process must be couched in terms which make it practical. terms which relate themselves to experience and to the question whether what little we have already done is adequate or successful. even to a limited extent. or whether it is inadequate. in all these respects the u.s. civil rights commission is extremely important. first. the commission gives us in its latest report an evaluation of what our laws to secure the voting right have meant. we find that they have  meant very much. in 5 years the amount of participation by negroes in voting has risen from 5.1 to 8.3 percent in 100 counties in the south. where a survey was made to determine whether the provisions with respect to the right to vote were adequate as they were extended to negroes. in the same report the commission covers a wide range of other matters and gives practical recommendations for legislation upon which congress can act. with the kledge that they have  appeared yesterday. and based upon factual considerations that have been tried out in the field. that is an indispensable service to congress and to the nation. i do  k what we would do without the civil rights commission. it even seems to me it is just as essential for those who are against civil rights legislation as it is for those who favor it to have such a commission. so that there may be an authoritative statement at the highest government level as to what are the facts and what ought to be the remedies. i end as i began upon this subject. i observe again that distinguished southerners serve on the commission. i am sure that southerners will continue to occupy an important place on the commission. this is an extremly vital challenge to the commissions work. it is extremely vital to the country to have this opinion asserted on such critical questions. in view of my longterm support for the commission. i am proud to see in the report this year that in the large group of recommendations and important conclusions of fact the commission is unanimous. including the views of the southern members. i hope that shortly the senate will extend the commission for at least 1 year. personally. i think it is a great mistake to extend the commission for only 1 year. i think it should be extended for a few months. and then have the question of its permanent establishment and its expanded powers considered when the entire civil rights question is debated. as it is. the commission is neither fish  fowl. nevertheless. it is essential that the commission be continued. last night a plea was addressed to the employees of the commission  to quit. that the commission and the country need them. therefore. if this 1year extension is the best we can getand apparently it is. at this stagewithout prejudicing the fight which is coming on the omnibus civil rights bill. to make the agency permanent and to strengthen its powers. i hope the senate will approve the amendment.
