. one could almost say that it is common kledge that without the adherence of the united states to this treaty it is unlikely to have nearly the effect and impact which it should have and is designed to have. i will  discuss at this time the individual articles of the treaty and the points made against those articles. on the ground that in some way they jeopardize the administration of justice in the united states. because i deeply believe every one of those points is completely refutable. i prefer rather to sum. up the overall case for the treaty as we at long last approach its hearing in the senate and i shall reserve for aher time in the course of the debate the analysis of each of the arguments in terms of the arguments made against those articles and why those arguments are completely invalid and why even on the legal draftsmanship involved the treaty deserves to be ratified. although we do  have many senators in attendance today. and it is understood we will  be voting today. i hope members will take an interest in this treaty. they owe it to themselves and to their consciences and belief in the american system which places the individual so high in terms of ility. dignity. and the protection of his individual rights. this is the most complete expression of those ideas as it deals with the eternal question of life and death and the life and death  in the name of an individuals responsibility but in some blind sort of hatred against a whole group if it happens to be ethnical. religious. or distinguishable in some similar fashion. so this treaty deserves the utmost attention of every senator. really in memorial for the millions who died in world war ii as a result of hitlers geide. and the countless millions who will die in all the history of mankind in geidal lunacy. at long last the world is organized egh to at least declare and set guidelines for all mankind and make some effort to punish those who would dare perform it. without in the remotest way embarrassing or changing the rights of any individual american under our constitution with respect to crimes which are covered by our laws or with respect to our relations with others. i hope very much that at long last the treaty will be ratified.
