in respect to the discussion that we have been having about apportionment. the senator from minnesota and i have a "sense of congress" resolution pending as a substitute for the dirksenmansfleld amendment. and i should like to say a word about the present situation. the senate can remain deadlocked on this issue without great peril to the public interest. we are  living in dream worlds. we k that everyone is seeking to get as much of a political position as possible in this situation. and the reason the miity leader chose to attach this amendment to the foreign aid bill is very obviously that he knew that the foreign aid bill had to be passed. and he wanted to be sure that his amendment did  fall by the wayside. but i think the time probably has come. or is very close. when we must fish or cut bait. and the foreign aid bill must be passed with or without the amendment. we shall  have a 10day period when the whole country can think it over. it seems to me that the tuck bill. which is before the senate. gives us an appropriate vehicle for effecting the will of congress on this subject. i would hope that the various parties in interestthe majority and miity leaders. my colleagues. my liberal colleagues on the other side. who have been debating this matter so thoroughly and so very well. the senator from minnesota and myself. and the senator fromsouth carolina -could arrive at a meeting of the minds. perhaps with the administration. as to expressing the will of both houses of congress. whatever it may be. with respect to the supreme courts reapportionment decisions. and that it be done on a separate measure. i join the majority leader in strongly condemning the tuck bill. i believe the supreme court. on the most elementary constitutional determination. would have to strike it down. certainly as it applies to pending cases. i think it is most mischievous. just as mischievous as was the attempt to pack the supreme court. but on aher ground. based on the precedent of 100 years ago in the klein case. because it is an effort to take away the jurisdiction of the supreme court. what is overlooked is that the 14th amendment to the constitution overrides every state and the will of the people of every state. perhaps the will of the people of some state might be to have slavery. they may  have it. that is what the constitution provides. the supreme court has upheld it. there is aher way to approach the problem. and that is to have a separate vehicle expressing the will of the congress as to what it would like to have the supreme court do. the way to get it done. in a constitutional way. is to ask the supreme court to stay its hand for a sufficient time to allow the people to work their will under the constitution. there are three bases which have been discussed in respect to this matter. the first basis is that enunciated by the senator from south carolina . that is. that the people of the states have complete autoy in this regard. they do . under the 14th amendment of the constitution. the second point of view is that expressed by my liberal colleagues on the other side. who feel that hing whatever should be done. but that the supreme court decision of one man. one vote should be carried out within each state according to that constitutional principle and that both houses of each state legislature should be organized on the basis of one man. one vote. the third position. which is too little discussed in this situationand i believe it represents the preponderant view of the people of the united statesis that they can understand why in each state they can make the same decision that the people of the united states made when our constitution was established. and have one house of their state legislature. if they wish itand i emphasize. if they wish iton a basis other than population. that opportunity can be afforded by an amendment to the u.s. constitution. it would  "freeze in" malapportioned legislatures. as has been asserted. because it would  be up to each state legislature. but it would be up to the people of each state. to determine whether they want one house apportioned on a basis other than population. it seems to me that this is the end result that meets the current consensus of the people of the united states. that procedure is available to us. and we have a separate bill from the other body which could be amended so that that could be carried into effect in a perfectly legal and constitutional way. i hope that in the 10day period all the parties in interest may get together for the purpose of arriving at such a decision. and that the machinery of the united states. which is   functioning. by virtue of the fact that we are deadlocked in this chamber. may again be permitted to function. and that congress may adjourn sine die by the middle of september.
. i end where i began. there is a confrontation between the united states and the state of alabama. we have had such confrontations before in civil rights and we shall have them again. this is the .time when the united states must take its full responsibility to protect the lives and safety of its citizens. inasmuch as these are matters that can under law be redressed by the federal government. in section 902 of the civil rights act of 1964. congress contemplated such application in providing as follows: sec. 902. whenever an action has been commenced in any court of the united states seeking relief from the denial of equal protection of the laws under the 14th amendment to the constitution on account of race. color. religion. or national origin. the attorney general for or in the name of the united states may intervene in such action upon timely application if the attorney general certifies that the case is of general public importance. in such action. the united states shall be entitled to the same relief as if it had instituted the action.
