. that mayor john lindsay feels that this amendment would be extremely helpful in that it would allow students in the workstudy program to take one or two courses during the summer while employed full time. the original blanket work limitation of 15 hours per week was designed to protect students from overextending themselves by going to school full time and working full time simultaneously. however. new york city officials have found that it is extremely valuable for a student working full time during the summer to take a course or two related to his experienceit  only broadens his outlook. but also substantially increases his incentive to pursue his education. under new york citys urban corps program. in which about 2.000 young men and women participate during the summer. students do in fact take evening courses related to their summers work. at the present time. they can receive academic credit for their studies because the students work more than the 15 hours allowed under the act. the universities are willing and anxious to offer credit. we need an amendment to the present workstudy program allowing students working full time during the summer to receive some academic credit at the same time for courses taken. mayor lindsay has written me explicitly stating: this amendment is vital to the effective operation of the workstudy program in new" york city and throughout the state.
. at todays ceremonies. nine individuals are being awarded hoary degrees for their contributions as role models for young people. among the recipients are four sisters of mercy: sister mary l blute who currently serves as provincial administrator of the sisters of mercy in the providence province and is the grand niece of sister m. teresita corrigan whose name appears on the salve regina charter. sister mary philemon banigan. who has taught at salve regina since 1950. sister m. rosalina flaherty. the principal of st. pauls school in cranston. ri. and sister susanne breckel who is director and counseling psychologist at the consultation center of the albany roman catholic dioceses. in addition to these outstanding women who have devoted their lives to education. five others will receive hoary degrees for their contribution as role models: ray meyer. retired basketball coach from depaul university. carl and rachel rossow. the founders of alpha and omega. inc.. which provides care to the severely disabled. actress betty hutton. and joseph gerard brennan. educator. author. and scholar. i would like to join with my colleague from rhode island. senator peli. who spoke so eloquently last monday on behalf of salve regina. in congratulating this fine college on its 50th anniversary. the dedication and devotion of its administrators has never waned and the quality of its education has always been sustained. salve regina and all of the students who pass through its halls should look forward to a bright future and at least aher 50 years of growth. i ask that this editorial from todays providence journal be included in the rzconw following my remarks. the editorial follows: (from the providence journal. sept. 19. as salve reoina oasavas its 50th
. at todays ceremonies. nine individuals are being awarded hoary degrees for their contributions as role models for young people. among the recipients are four sisters of mercy: sister mary l blute who currently serves as provincial administrator of the sisters of mercy in the providence province and is the grand niece of sister m. teresita corrigan whose name appears on the salve regina charter. sister mary philemon banigan. who has taught at salve regina since 1950. sister m. rosalina flaherty. the principal of st. pauls school in cranston. ri. and sister susanne breckel who is director and counseling psychologist at the consultation center of the albany roman catholic dioceses. in addition to these outstanding women who have devoted their lives to education. five others will receive hoary degrees for their contribution as role models: ray meyer. retired basketball coach from depaul university. carl and rachel rossow. the founders of alpha and omega. inc.. which provides care to the severely disabled. actress betty hutton. and joseph gerard brennan. educator. author. and scholar. i would like to join with my colleague from rhode island. senator peli. who spoke so eloquently last monday on behalf of salve regina. in congratulating this fine college on its 50th anniversary. the dedication and devotion of its administrators has never waned and the quality of its education has always been sustained. salve regina and all of the students who pass through its halls should look forward to a bright future and at least aher 50 years of growth. i ask that this editorial from todays providence journal be included in the rzconw following my remarks. the editorial follows: (from the providence journal. sept. 19. as salve reoina oasavas its 50th
. today is the tercentenary of the establishment of the city of new york on february 2. 1653. it is a good day to speak some truths about my native city. too often here and elsewhere the significance of this greatest of our own and the worlds cities has been written down as some province fenced off from the rest of our country by a different way of life and point of view. peopled by citizens  quite american by reason of background and ideology and living in a stew of municipal corruption. we have our share of troubles but these are careless thoughts irreverent of the majesty of new york and of the 8.000.000 patriotic and essentially religious americans who are the new yorkers. for this mighty and magnificent city is  alone unparalleled in the physical aspects of its gleaming manmade pinnacles but is the very expression of the modernity. the drive. the creativeness. and the adventure of our country. more people live in new york than in all of arizona. delaware. idaho. maine. montana. nevada. new hampshire. new mexico. th and south dakota. rhode island. utah. vermont. and wyoming. new york city gave 1.000.000 young men and women to our armed forces in world war ii. new york city is a vital element in what makes our country strong in body. mind. and spirit. let us make a resolve on this tercentenary day to learn to k new york and to be proud of her as our queen of cities and a national treasure. and i predict that to learn to k her with sympathy and pride will be to learn to love her. i am today inserting in the appendix from a special issue of the new york times magazine. published sunday. february 1. an article on the history of new york city since its founding 300 years ago by meyer berger. an article on new york as it compares with other cities. entitled "rivals: a vote for new york" by r. l. duffus. and finally an article on the staggering statistics about new york by gilbert millstein.
. i wish to join the others of my colleagues who yesterday memorialized the passing of senator matthew m. neely. it is with a feeling of deep sorrow that i pay tribute to him.  only as a great statesman. but also in wholehearted ackledgement of his constant devotion to the cause of his constituency and his country. and especially of his work as chairman of the committee on the district of columbia. upon which i had the ho to serve. matthew neelys rise to prominence followed the classical american patternhe was born in a log cabin in west virginia. taught school for $35 a month. and worked his way through college. prom this he rose through service in the house of representatives and the senate and as gover of his state to become one of the most beloved political figures in west virginia. i was privileged to be associated with matthew neely for only a short time. i was always impressed with his strength. his vigor. his ability. and his devotion to high moral purpose. his profound kledge and appreciation of the scriptures and poetry have been an inspiration to his colleagues. when i became a member of the senate in 1957. i was assigned to the committee on the district of columbia. of which matt neely was then chairman: i came to have a great respect for his capabilities and diligence. he was often referred to as "the uficial mayor of the district of columbia" due to his distinguished service on the district committee. of which he was chairman during the 81st. 82d. 84th. and 85th congresses and of which he was a member during the 69th. 70th. and 83d congresses. his death was  only a loss to the state of west virginia and the nation. but to the voteless residents of the district of columbia as well. district residents will long remember him with a feeling of gratitude for the many services he unselfishly rendered them both as chairman and as a member of this committee. his colleagues and his countrymen mourn his loss. his was a fruitful and meaningful life. and his achievements and contributions will truly serve to preserve his memory.
 of that fine organization for many years was judge jonah b. goldstein. a very distinguished new yorker and one time candidate for mayor of the city of new york. this is one of the most eworthy local organizations in new york city. and its tribute to the dedicated school teachers of that city should be widely recognized. i call attention to the fact that the organization has given 100 awards to teachers. each of whom received an illuminated scroll. and 10 of whom were awarded. in addition. a prize of $500 each. this is a eworthy example of what citizens can do in recognizing the high calling of the profession of teaching. which we want to see  only better paid but also enled by citizen recognition. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial entitled. "dedicated teachers." published in the new york times of january 18. be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. gary horowitz. a city college senior. who circulated petitions and generated much of the enthusiasm for the memorial. i wish to express my gratitude also to the many newspapers in new york and throughout the nation who expressed support for this effort. the most able of these was the new york times. whose publisher. arthur hays sulzberger. and  to urge action on this joint resolution. the joint resolution is based upon the expectation that the grange residence will itself be transferred to the campus of the city college of new york. which practically adjoins the present site. the land there will be donated by the city of new york. i have a telegram from the mayor of new york agreeing to the proposed arrangement of transfer. and the authority for that donation has  been enacted in a bill. s. 2713. by the new york state legislature. so that part of the task is accomplished. thanks to gover rockefeller and mayor wagner. finally. i e with gratification that section 6 of title 16. united states code. authorizes the secretary of the interior to accept donations for purposes of the national park monument system. and a great effort has been made by. among others. our close friend and colleague in the house of representatives. representative saylor of pennsylvania. to induce the bankers of the country to make a contribution to the cost of establishing this memorial. we may well be successful in that endeavor. i hope to lend myself to that effort. as it may very well relieve the federal government of some of the cost. which though modest. is etheless a cost. the estimate in the committee report is $460.000 for all moving and reation costs. which would include landscaping. annual maintenance and operation is estimated at $45.000 a year. but the american historical and preservation society has generously offered the proceeds of sale of the present site. estimated at $22.000. and an endowment of approximately $50.000. and it is anticipated that if there is an admission chargeit is  yet decidedsuch a charge would relieve the federal government of some of the maintenance cost. i am deeply gratified that the joint resolution has been brought up. it represents a typical outlook of accommodation to senators and to great national purposes on the part of our great majority leader. and i hope that the joint resolution will pass.
. new york city has made various changes in school zoning laws which are bringing about a greater mixture of the races in the schools. new york city has a plant utilization technique under which underutilized schools are taking negro and puerto rican students by bus from schools which are overutilized. between 1958 and 1963. 48.000 children were involved in that program. there is open enrollment. under which parents may choose to enroll their children in schools away from their own neighborhoods if they believe their own schools have a racial imbalance. compensatory education and special consideration are given to children who are behind in terms of the aggregate instruction which we wish them to have. we can only hope that the other states and cities will do what new york city is doing. then we would indeed be in a golden age for our country. it is critically important that the facts on this subject. which speak so eloquently. be given widespread publication. within a day or two. new york city will annce a new plan for consolidating various individual schools. which will even further deal with the subject.  of segregation. but of the kind of racial imbalance which does  satisfy us even though it may  constitute a violation of law. i think that is the only way in which a community should act. and i am very proud that the city of new yorkeven with all its deficiencies and all the arguments about themis doing all it can. and. in this instance. is doing it through its board of education. this is what millions of persons in new york are backing with all their hearts and souls.
several titles i believe are in the same general category as the voting provision. title iii relates to desegregation of public facilities. and title iv to desegregation of public schools. the senator ks that i am  arguing this question in a hostile manner. we are discussing it as lawyers. anxious to do justice. what troubles me. for example. is the discriminatory denial by a mayor or other municipal official of access to a public facility. in which case title iii is designed to avoid the indignity to the citizen and the derogation of the right of the citizen. i used the example of a child who seeks admission to a school at the beginning of a term. there may be a lot of fumbling around until 2. 3. 4. or 6 months have passed. in the prince edward county school cases. several years passed. then the law finally catches up. it is that kind of case. rather than the hamburger case that bothers me.
