i put in the record a series of statutes. the argument given by many of the former prosecutors around here is that you always have to prove intent. you have to have intent to prove murder or what it might be. and that this reasontobelieve standard is a new one that we have pulled up just to get easier prosecutions. this is  the situation at all. we have put a series of acts on our books  in 18 u.s.c. dealing with this very standard that the senator so eloquently spoke to. it is  a new standard and. furthermore. it is  just this element alone that one has to prove: that he would have reason to believe that he would impair intelligenre activities of the united states. there are six other standards of proof. there has to be. of course. a pattern of activities. you have to prove a pattern of activities in which the person intended to identify and expose covert agents. so there is that intent in our language.
. today marks the eighth anniversary of anatoly shcharanskys confinement in chistopol prison. shcharansky was convicted of antisoviet activities. his only crime was trying to join his wife. avital. in israel. he. like so many other soviet jews who have been refused exist visas. is being persecuted for having the courage of his convictions. particularly his religious convictions. religious persecution is impossible for us to fully understand. we in the united states have always had the right to practice the faith of our choice. the right to speak out freely on any and all issues. and the right to read whatever literature we desire. in the soviet union. jews are discouraged from practicing their religion. hebrew books are banned. and speaking out against repressive policies of the government toward jews is a crime of treason. for soviet citizens. those who dare to exercise their basic rights as human beings are punished for their courage. as anatoly shcharansky is being punished. throughout the history of the united states. we have always championed the cause of human rights. that is why we are here today: to bring the facts of soviet repression to the attention of the world. the soviet governments continued persecution of jews stands as an obstacle to improved relations between our two countries. we must take every opportunity to decry statesponsored antisemitic behavior. specifically the dramatic decline in jewish emigration from the soviet union. in 1979. 51.320 jews left the soviet union. but in 1983. a mere 1.315 soviet jews were allowed to leave. this decline in the number of exits permitted is deplorable. we must continue to urge the new leadership in the kremlin to permit those jews who wish to leave to have the opportunity to do so.
. today marks the eighth anniversary of anatoly shcharanskys confinement in chistopol prison. shcharansky was convicted of antisoviet activities. his only crime was trying to join his wife. avital. in israel. he. like so many other soviet jews who have been refused exist visas. is being persecuted for having the courage of his convictions. particularly his religious convictions. religious persecution is impossible for us to fully understand. we in the united states have always had the right to practice the faith of our choice. the right to speak out freely on any and all issues. and the right to read whatever literature we desire. in the soviet union. jews are discouraged from practicing their religion. hebrew books are banned. and speaking out against repressive policies of the government toward jews is a crime of treason. for soviet citizens. those who dare to exercise their basic rights as human beings are punished for their courage. as anatoly shcharansky is being punished. throughout the history of the united states. we have always championed the cause of human rights. that is why we are here today: to bring the facts of soviet repression to the attention of the world. the soviet governments continued persecution of jews stands as an obstacle to improved relations between our two countries. we must take every opportunity to decry statesponsored antisemitic behavior. specifically the dramatic decline in jewish emigration from the soviet union. in 1979. 51.320 jews left the soviet union. but in 1983. a mere 1.315 soviet jews were allowed to leave. this decline in the number of exits permitted is deplorable. we must continue to urge the new leadership in the kremlin to permit those jews who wish to leave to have the opportunity to do so.
 of the childrens defense fund. tells us that the principal reason for high rates of teen pregnancy is low selfesteem and the perception of these poor and troubled teens that their life options are limited. so i created a demonstration grant program to provide these young people with activities and counseling that will increase their sense of wellbeing. their sense of selfesteem. whether it is through sports or recreation or arts or other enrichment activities. this $6 million program will be conducted in four states. and i am very anxious to see its results. so i want to pay tribute to all of those who have had a hand in this and particularly the senior senator from new york. who has been like a bulldog on this subject. shaking this. hanging on to it. tenaciously pushing it. getting more cosponsors. and here we are on the great day where it looks like it is going to pass. i thank the chair. june 16. 1.988
 ofthe prestigious boston society of recorded music. under charles munch. he was invited to conduct the boston symphony. an ho long overdue. on the occassion of the boston symphony orchestras 75th anniversary. he and dr. munch were jointly hoed by the massachusetts legislature. in 1959 the congress of the united states recognized arthur fiedlers achievement in behalf of the cultural life of the nation. many other hos have come to him through the yearshoary degrees from ripon. from international college. from tufts university. and from boston university. where he has served as instructor of violin and ensemble. i suspect that he values most his title as "hoary fire chief" from boston. reflecting his fascination with the science of firefighting and his many friendly associations in the firehouseyes. and in the police station. he has welcomed a wide range of experience in the everyday life of people. to him. to his wife. the former ellen bottomley of boston. and to his children. i extend my congratulations on the occasion of his 80th birthday. and i join with a mighty legion of friends and admirers around the world in saluting his life and work. as wordsworth of the solitary reaper. so may we say of him: the music in my heart i bore. long after it was heard more.
and i think to provide. if i might interrupt the senator. for the contingency that even. as i said. if we passed legislation. that some court may throw new york city into the bankruptcy situation. we ought to have the law on the books at that time. also. to provide for the eventuality. and i hope it will never come to pass. but for the possibility that other cities across the nation might find themselves in similar financial crises.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point. as a part of my remarks. an excerpt from walter wheeler cooks book entitled "cases on equity." relating to injunctive enforcement of the criminal law.
i happen to entertain some very deep convictions about the matter of jury trials. so i should like to see if we can clarify the subject. in a discussion with my dear friend and most respected colleague. the senator from pennsylvania. the senator said that he who is subjected to a charge of civil contempt has the key to the jail in his pocket.
. i say to those who talk about free speech that under the constitution of the united states free speech is  license. supreme court justice holmes laid down the proposition long ago that it might be free speech to get up in a movie theater and to yell "fire." but that we could prevent it by law. what would our colleagues do. would our colleagues have us allow a union member to get up at a union meeting and yell "fire". would our colleague say that is free speech.-because that is what we are asked to write into the bill. that is sense. and we k it. of course. all freedom has to be subject to proper and reasonable rules of procedure.
there we get into a question of opinion as to the relative educational merits or standards. i would  wish to express an opinion on that. because i am  an educator. but i do  believe it is similar at all because there the distinction is  based strictly upon color. it is  the same distinction at all. there a distinction is made upon the basis of physical activity in which young people can engage. in particular studies in which they may be interested. and -other traditional pedagogical standards. whether right or wrong. it does  involve the same question as when people are separated solely by reason of color. there are many laws upon the books of the states and of the united states in which special care is taken with respect to the hours of employment and conditions of work of women and children. those considerations are built into our law. certainly that does  represent any derogation of the civil rights of those persons. as i have just pointed out. it is  a distinction which is based upon what i consider to be. and what the supreme court has considered to be. and what i think the overwhelming opinion of the majority of americans is. a distinction based upon color. which is contrary to the constitution.
the other question i should like to ask the senator is. how would the senators amendment change the situation. when there are  laws on the books which give the attorney general the power to sue if discrimination is used in applying a performance test for registration to vote. what would the senator be adding by way of greater power than the power which  exists. and also the socalled criminal civil rights statutes. but certainly the specific 1957 and 1960 acts. which go directly to redressing a situation in which the right to register or vote is denied in a discriminatory way.
subsequently said: . i wish to say a word about a resolution. with very extensive cosponsorship. submitted by the senator from connecticut . the resolution is entitled "resolution condemning soviet persecution of jews." i deeply feel that the resolution deserves early action by -the senate. for more than 2 years i have called to the attention of the senate recurrent instances of what can only be described as persecution of jews in the soviet union. when i first went to the soviet union in december of 1961 i ran across the problem in the most marked way. i could get absolutely hing out of the soviet officials with respect to it.. it will be remembered that the leading organizations of the jewish people of the united states had their representatives talk with mr. khrushchev in 1959 and they were met with the blank statement that. "the soviet union has laws against antisemitism and there is e." that is the curtain of words which one gets on the situation constantly from the russians. on monday i laid before the senate the latest facts and figures on what is taking place in the soviet union. giving a clear indication that. apart from the * suppression of cultural institutions. newspapers. synagogues. et cetera. which is bad egh in itself. and of the elimination of any opportunity for jewish education in the soviet union within the past 2 years at least 83 jews have been executed for alleged ecoic offenses out of a total of 140 who were executed in the soviet union for such offenses. let us remember that at the most. soviet jews account for 1% percent of the population. here is a figure literally dripping with blood: 83 out of 140 of those executed for ecoic offenses were jews. and the jewish population of the soviet is 11/2 percent. there is a great tradition in the senate for dencing actions of this barbaric and inhuman character. even the idea that for an ecoic offensethat is. something relating to currencyeven if. as we often do in the law. say "assuming it is so." we think that the punishment of execution for that kind of an alleged crime is barbaric. that in itself it is offensive to the morality of the entire civilized world. this body has. since the turn of the century when there were pogroms in what was then czarist russia. felt. in good conscience. the need to dence these outrages. the resolution submitted by our colleague from connecticut [mr. ribicofrv. joined in by so many senators. including myself. it seems to me is greatly in the tradition of this body. it cries out for prompt action. in view of our tradition. in view of the case which has been made. and the absolute failure of the soviet union and all its officials to respond satisfactorily. there are two other points i wish to make. we all k from experience that the soviet union is  impervious to world opinion and to american opinion. what more authoritative expression of american opinion could there be than the adoption of this resolution by the senate. i am deeply gratified that a majority of senators already have joined in support of the resolution. this is indicative of the nature of the american protest. the adoption of the resolution by considered action of the senate would be even more emphatic. many senators expressed their concern. during the debate on the nuclear test ban treaty. about a state of euphoria which might seize us or seize our country. and about the expectations which could  be realized in respect to relieving the tensions of the cold war. the adoption of the resolution is imperative. in the face of so manifest a grievance on the part of all civilized humanity against the soviet union. with its clear intimations of antijewish action. confounding all the laws on the books of the soviet union. we face a wall of silence in respect of this dreadful situationsilence which can be penetrated within the soviet union by talking to jews there. because they fear to speak. silence resulted when i protested this matter in 1962 in the soviet union. a document. allegedly a letter. was issued. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point with my reply to it which appeared in the new york times. june 2. 1962.
i do  k of many other provisions in this immigration law that is quite as offensive to law. leaving aside political sciences. as the failure to have a statute of limitations. the senator pointed out one glaring inequity. there have been cases of people who. on the threat of deportation. had heart attacks. who had been in this country for 30 to 35 years. following the deportable offense. the attorney general has againand. we will hold him to itagreed to bring us back a report on this procedural change so that we can act on it. one reason offered for  supporting the statute of limitations by the department of justice is that it is a procedural change. and we are dealing primarily in this bill with a change in the national origins system. i do  blame the senator from oregon a bit for offering this amendment  and pressing it. i can understand his reason perfectly. perhaps i am  so free to do it as he is. because he is  a member of the committee. he has had a similar experience when he has been in a position of authority with respect to a certain bill. this was a difficult bill to get out of committee. and we had given some ground to get it out. i have studied the subject carefully. it is really one of the most depressing. deplorable. unjust aspects of law that i. as a lawyer. interested in due process. have seen on the statute books of the united states.
