 carter put it so well yesterday: we are  attacking the soviet union. but we are expressing our commitment on human rights. as the ranking republican member of the senate foreign relations committee and a member of the helsinki commission. i lend bipartisan support to that position. it is important that soviet officials understand that the united states is  going to ige this commitment just because moscow might be unhappy. the best way to remove this possible source of friction is for the soviets to abide by the pledges to support reunification of families and other human rights measures they accepted in signing the helsinki accord. important steps in that direction would be ending the harassment of dr. sakharov and soviet citizens who have sought to emigrate. it should be ed that there are those in the soviet union who also are concerned about compliance with the helsinki accord. on may 12. 1976. a group of soviet civil rights leaders formed the group to promote observance of the helsinki accords in the u.s.s.r. the leader of the group. yuri orlov. is a well kn soviet scientist. other members are ludmilla alekseevna. mikhail bernshtam. emigrated. elena bonner. sakharovs wife. aleksandr ginzburg. a writer who is in charge of the solzhenitsyn fund for the aid of political prisoners. maj. gen. petr grigorenko. aleksandr korchak. malva landa. anatoll marchenko. a political prisoner who is currently in exile. vitali rubin. who has since emigrated to israel. anatoli shcharansky and a later member vladimir slepak. this group has been issuing documents to the 34 embassies of the csce signatories on soviet violations and compliance with basket three provisions. the reports of this group are well documented and have focused on the following areas of concern: divided families. postal and telephone communication. political prisoners. continued discrimination against them after their terms are up. severe health problems among prisoners. repression against religious families. including taking away their children. continued incarceration in psychiatric clinics for political reasons. the situation" of mufstafa dzhimelev who is in camp for his defense of the cultural rights of the crimean tartars. repression against people who wish to emigrate for political reasons. and on the village of ilyatka from which many jewish families want to emigrate and other issues. the members of this group have been subject to various types of recrimination from the soviet authorities. just 3 days after the formation of the group. yuri orlov. was detained and threatened by the kgb. and was accused of antisoviet activity. more recently. he has again been detained. questioned. and kept inside his own apartment by guards waiting to take him in for questioning. other members of the group have also been subjected to other types of
