. robert goddard never lived to see his dream of space travel taken seriously by the world. indeed. were it  for the dedicated and sophisticated work of his widow. esther goddard. all of us here might still believe his dreams were fantasies. but her efforts gave the physicists and engineers who followed goddard the tools to put americans on the moon. in the last 15 years. our nation has begun to recognize robert goddard as the giant in our nations history. which. in fact. he was. but in auburn. mass.. at the site where that first crucial test flight was launched. there is only a marker placed there privately by the american rocket society. this legislation filed by senator ken4nedy and myself would make this spot a national historic site. as it should be. this designation would be a fitting capstone to the series of tributes offered this pioneer by a grateful nation. by mr. church (for himself and
. just prior to the opening of the congress. i sought information about certain critical world problems of primary interest to my constituents by a trip to palestine. greece. rome and london in that order. the department of state was extremely helpful in facilitating travel arrangements for me. but the trip was on my own. i was rather careful. in the course of my trip. to reserve comment and conclusions for a report such as this to the house and to my constituents. my visit to rome was to seek enlightenment on the religious side. the audience which i was privileged to have with his holiness pope pius xii had political conations and i therefore omit it from this report. the members of this house may be interested to k. however. of the terms of "love and esteem" in which his holiness spoke of the people of the united states. the problems presented by greece and palestine are of special interest. the time i spent abroad was necessarily briefjust under a monthbut i tried very hard to interview men and women. representative of all shades of opinion. saw the countries. both of which are small. and tried to cover the ground as thoroughly as possible. i had given considerable study previously to the problems of these countries. and. though i do  pretend to have become an expert on them. certain facts and impressions of this experience stand out so markedly that i hope they may prove to be of value to this house.
