 dr. robert hutchins spoke when he said: what the country needs most. of the university. and what only the university can supply. is intellectual leadership. the university could fashion the mind of the ago.  it is the other way around. the demands of the age are fashioning the mind . . . of the university. i do  think it is appropriate to talk in terms of cia infiltration of these organizations and institutions. as some of my colleagues have already pointed out. perhaps we have been deficient here in the congress in failing to provide ample funds for appropriate u.s. representation at international meetings through open channels. perhaps we have failed to realize that the activities of many of the organizations which have been named in the past several days are sufficiently worthwhile to stand on their own merits. without the taint of secret support.  is it sufficient to talk only in terms of control of intelligence activities. as the excellent series of the new york times on the cia pointed out last spring. whatever the institutional forms of control. it is the substance of those controls that is most important. review of activities without the ability to correct and contribute is meaningless and does  fulfill our responsibilities as a coequal branch of government. i am convinced that the congress must have a continuing and contributory role in the conduct of our intelligence policies. responsible person would suggest that we can be without intelligence agencies. but they must be an instrument of u.s. foreign policy.  a burden on it. many of the specific questions that have been raised  only in the past week. but in the past several years will be put to cia director helms when he appears before the house foreign affairs committee this aftern. these briefings are worthwhile. but they will  substitute for a joint committee permanently charged with the responsibility to oversee and advise the intelligence community. to those who argue that the congress is  sufficiently responsible or trustworthy to handle this assignment. i would suggest that many of the errors in judgment that have taken place might have been avoided if the congress had been consulted. in my judgment the mandate of the joint committee on foreign information and intelligence which i propose today is sufficiently broad to deal  only with the present disclosures but with the long term dilemmas of intelligence policy. some of the questions we must consider are: what is the necessary role of secret intelligence gathering agencies in a free and open society. to what extent should intelligence gathering agencies also engage in operational activities. are there limits beyond which a nations intelligence community should  go regardless of the forms of institutional control. to what extent should intelligence activities of governmental organizations. institutions. and individuals be used. wittingly or unwittingly. as tools of the intelligence community. . i also insert in the record articles from the new fda approval of fish protein bedford standardtimes. the boston concentrate globe. the quincy patriot ledger. the brockton enterprise and the houlu
massachusetts.  of fearing petty reprisals in the form of viobin. dr. ezra levin. was in fact the piofda rejection of his other petitions. neer in the development of the powdered senator paul douglas. of illis. dr. extract of fish. senator paul douglasndosenllostdr-. in 1962 i visited peru and mexico and saw levins home state. and senator salton-. striking evidence of the beneficial effects of stall engaged in the fpc fight with fpc. added in small quantities. to the diet of great determination. neither of them malrished children. children with large. could tolerate unfairnessespecially of sad eyes and distended stomachs suffering powerful government agencies to the from a disease kn as "kwashiokor" were "little guy." to persuade fda that the fed supplements of fpc. the change can fish protein concentrate was  objec- only be described as miraculous. this visit tionablethat. in fact. it was less objec- to south and central america encouraged tionabletha n ome . foods currentl n me to push legislation to make fpc availtionable than some foods currently on able. the market. senator douglas offered ten years ago. levin developed his procsnacks on the senate floor of fried grass- ess for making the clean. buffcolored powhoppers. chocolatecovered ants. and so der from whole fish. his company has long forth. shortly after saltonstall and supplied the high protein supplement sold douglas became involved our colleagues by health food stores and used by olympic hastings keith and bill bates joined athletes in training and by elderly people ll.who need high protein supplements. but his fish protein was made from filleted fishkeiths interest dates back to about an expensive process in which most of the 1960 when charles lewin. a civicminded high protein material in the fish was discarded. the new process. using the entire fish. viscera and all. made it possible to produce an end product costing only pennies a pound (compared to the $5 a pound charged by health food stores for the fpc made from fillets.) however when dr. levin. a biochemist by training. tried to get fda approval for his product in 1963. he met incredible bureaucratic footdragging. fda refused to grant approval to dr. levin on grounds that fpc contained "filth"that is. it was made from the entire fish. amount of reasoning would change the attitude of fdawhich seemed absurd to me since i never knew anyone who bothered to clean a clam or a sardine. in 1961 i said. "rejecting fish flour on the grounds that it might be esthetically objectionable to someone would be as ridiculous and as tragic as banning penicillin from use by the medical world because it is derived from mold. "its the whole concept thats objectionable." insisted fda. after levins first petition was turned down. the bureau of commercial fisheries requested and got a small appropriation to study methods of making what fda would consider a "clean" fish protein concentrate. misunderstandings and misinterpretations held up fpc approval. wheat and milling interests fought vigorously against "fish flour." fearing it might crowd out wheat flour in the market. the name was changed from fish flour to fish protein concentrate. fpc has e of the properties of flourit can be used as a basic ingredient in baked foods. but it can be added to flour or cereal products such as rice or corn for the most effective diets. since it contains elements  found in cereal grains. one of the ways to use the additive is to sprinkle it in tortilla dough. for example. when levin protested the expenditure of government funds to produce virtually the same product he had already tested exhaustively. he was told (again by an fda spokesman) that the development of fish protein concentrate was "too big for one man." in february 1966 after spending $1.4 million to produce fpc using a toodifferent method from levins (but using hake onlythis. fda felt. was a "cleaner" fish than some) the bureau of commercial fisheries petitioned fda for approval of their product. and. at the same time. levin petitioned for the approval of the viobin fpc. the national academy of sciences cleared the "clean. wholesome product" developed by the bureau of commercial fisheries. fda said it would probably be more than a month before they could answer the petition. hopeful of early approval. a bill to authorize the construction of pilot plants for the production of fpc was proposed. time dragged on. there was word from the fda. fda found a trace of fluoride in the protein concentratemore work was indicated. they said. i had a discussion with one fda spokesman. and it went something like this: keith: "if 1000 children were fed fpc and one of those children got discolored teeth as a result of the fluoride and the other 999 developed stronger teeth and bones. would you feel you should refuse fpc approval." fda: "i certainly would." by removing part of the bone during processing. fluoride levels were reduced to a "safe" level. a former fda commissioner was so contraryminded that when he was invited to partake of food with added fpchors doeuvres. pastries and so forth prepared in the senate restaurant he declined. when commissioner goddard took over last spring. things started to move over in fda. including the fish protein concentrate petitions. what does approval of fpc mean. it means that we can finally include fpc in a food for peace program. it means an end to soviet insinuations that the united states is willing to send abroad food supplements it considers  fit for the american consumer. it means a boost to the sagging fishing industry when a boost is badly needed. and for millions of starving people. fpc means hope. the miracle powder can be stored indefinitely. only a teaspoonful a day added to the ordinary diet of the underrished is egh for the protein needs of a human beingegh to restore mental alertness. physical strength. egh to turn a lackluster individual into a productive member of society. but this is only a first step. we have a tremendous amount of work to do. and while we linger. thousands are dying of starvation. weve got to get plants into operationquickly. we must sell people on the ideathere are too many misconceptions about fpc. it is  fishy. it is  objectionable. i have eaten food with added fpc many times. members of my staff have even made candy with added fpc. and it was most enjoyable. the powder has a slightly gritty feel. it is a neutral color. something between tan and gray. it dissolves in water. and can be used in combination with milk or juice. dont feel that fpc is restricted to the underdeveloped countries. it could even be added to the snacks teenagers eat instead of proper meals--potato chips. pretzels. cookies. this miracle additive.  that it has been given the needed stamp of government approval. can. and hopefully. will go a long way toward saving the worlds hungry millions. [from the new bedford (mass.) standardtimes. feb. 2. 19671
. i rise in strong support of h.r. 1187. to increase the authorization for land acquisition at the cape cod national seashore from $16.000.000 to $28.000.000. and in support of the committee amendment to increase the authorization further to $33.500.000. i am the sponsor of h.r. 12364. which is identical to h.r. according to the department of the interiors report on h.r. 1187. all of the $16 million authorized by the 1961 act establishing the seashore has been appropriated and obligated. that amount. which was based on 1959 appraisals. was originally expected to cover the cost of acquiring all 27.650 acres envisioned as part of the national seashore. because the first appropriations were  made available for acquisitions until fiscal 1962 and land values had risen rapidly. the $16 million covered the cost of acquisition of only approximately 16.411 acres. there remain approximately 8.830 acres of privately owned lands within the seashore which have  been acquired for lack of funds. it is my understanding that the department of the interior currently needs sufficient funds to acquire approximately 7.519 additional acres. based on january 1969 appraisals. it is thought that $17.401.000 will be needed. the committee amendment to h.r. 1187 would cover that cost. and i therefore urge its adoption by the house. the 1.311 acres of remaining private lands can be acquired without the owners consent. and are deemed compatible with the seashore. so funds are being provided for their acquisition at this time. as past experience with this national park area has indicated. land values in the cape cod area are skyrocketing. in my judgment. the congress and the administration would be exercising false ecoy if action on this authorization bill. the necessary appropriations legislation. and the actual expenditure of funds were delayed. the land must ultimately be acquired in order to complete the cape cod national seashore. of the unacquired acreage covered by this au-. thorization. 7.270 acres are unimproved and should be acquired as soon as possible. while they are still in a natural state. if we delay. costs will certainly rise. the cape cod national seashore is easily accessible to millions of americans who live in new england and the boston and new york metropolitan areas. more than 4 million persons visited the seashore in 1969. in my judgment. there are too few park areas available to residents of the theastern corridor. who have shown their appreciation of such areas. and we must take advantage of every opportunity to preserve the natural regions which still remain. i strongly support the passage of this bill.
. a copy of my bill and the model bill. entitled "to prohibit littering and the disposal of untreated sewage from boats" follows: h.r. 16938 a bill to provide that plans and regulations established pursuant to section 10 of the federal water pollution control act for the control of water. pollution shall apply to vessels (including boats) and marinas be it enacted by the senate and the house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that section 10(c) of the federal witer pollution control act is amended by inserting at the end thereof a new paragraph as follows: "(8) state criteria and plans for the purpose of paragraph (1) of this subsection and standards established by the secretary pursuant to paragraph (2) shall include such provisions for the control of pollution of any kind from buildings. vessels. boats. or marinas including. but  limited to the discharge of any organic or -iganic matter which is injurious to edible fish and shellfish or the culture thereof. or from the dumping or release of garbage. oils. excrement. sludge or refuse of any kind into the water."
what has happened as a result of all this. all the leaders in florida. from the gover down. fear that unless something is done. this marvelous lake will become unfit for game and fish and water fowl and may be unfit as a source of water for the people in southern florida. they are going to try to undo all this damage. it is going to cost a lot more money to undo it. and when you try to restore the marsh. it is practically impossible. we k egh  to avoid the terrible disasters such as took place in the kissimmee river in florida. we k egh to intelligently regulate the uses of wetlands so as to prevent the collapse of the vital functions they serve. we will soon have a national wetlands inventory. which will give us an accurate. comprehensive picture of our remaining wetlands resources and provide a systematic means for uptodate tracking of wetland losses and alterations. we  have an opportunity for a sound. balanced. and responsible program to regulate discharge of dredged and fill materials into wetlands. that does  mean that if you are a farmer. you can plow your field. that is one of the red herrings that has been raised in this bill. one was watching over this more carefully than our distinguished presiding officer. he comes from farmland. he made sure that the farmers are protected under this bill. and they are. but what we are talking about is just indiscriminately filling in. and that is what the committee bill takes care of. i must say. . that i support the bill enthusiastically. i hope that everybody who is interested in the chain of life of our fish and game. will support it and oppose the amendment that is about to be presented by the senator from texas. (this concludes proceedings which occurred earlier.)
during the markup of the clean water act i requested that the epa conduct a study to determine whether certain seafood processors could safely dispose of natural wastes resulting from their operation into marine waters in an untreated state. that study is described in the report on page 82. i made the request because of my interest in helping resolve an issue that came before the committee shortly before markup. it is my understanding that several states such as alaska could be affected. senator gravel. are there any other items that you had in mind to be included in the study when we discussed this in markup.
he came from an era when the language used in this body was a little harsher than . he described a compatriot. a colleague. in the following terms. and it seems to me this very language should apply to this bill. in referring to aher congressman. he said: he shines and stinks like rotten mackerel by moonlight. that was language of 170 years ago and that is very harsh. but this current legislation-
. in short. the bill before us for consideration today provides the public with a means fully recognizing the importance of all our fish and wildlife resources and their contribution to our daily lives. for this reason. i strongly support s. 1140 and urge its adoption by the senate.a
. i would urge all my colleagues to support the reauthorization of this valuable program. and ask in particular. that those senators from the atlantic coastal states consider cosponsorship in view of the tremendous recreational. commercial and ecoic importance of the striped bass to our home states.
i wish to call once again to the attention of the senate the fact that the priority of this section of land. also contained in the committee bill itself. is that it shall be consistent with the protection of fish and wildlife and their habitat. the organization that is most in tune. most experienced. in carrying out such activities. is the fish and wildlife service. so. . i urge my colleagues to oppose the melcher amendment. i ask for the yeas and nays.
. the fishing industry is an important and often overlooked business in this country. in rhode island alone in 1979. over $30 million worth of fish was landed. when you consider the processing and distributing of this product. we are talking about an industry with an ecoic volume of over $100 million just in rhode island. the passage of the 200mile limit was a boon to americas fishermenespecially those in the theast. since the adoption of that limit. herring catch has increased 30 percent. cod and scallop catches are up 50 percent. and pcilock catch doubled. clearly. resolving our differences with canada on this issue is in our best interest. approving this boundary treaty is an important first step in resolving this long and arduous debate. once this is done. the united states and canada can then sit down and consider a management plan for east coast fisheries that is equitable to both american and canadian fishermen. .this treaty has ny full support. and i urge its ratification by the sen ate.*
. yesterday i introduced s. 1018. the coastal barriers resources act. which serves to protect and conserve fish and wildlife resources. i ask unanimous consent that the entire text of thts legislation be printed in the record.
. h.r. 1952. which would reauthorize the sikes act. was originally passed by the house of representatives on september 21. 1981. on june 9. 1982. the senate passed h.r. 1952 with a series of four amendments. plus an amendment to the title of the bill. on september 30. 1982. the house agreed to senate amendments 1. 2. and 3 as well as the amendment to the title of the bill. amendment  4 was agreed to with a house amendment to clarify the authority of the fish and wildlife service to carry out certain procedures as part of their stingtype undercover operations. in recent years the fish and wildlife service has been quite successful in detecting major wildlife crime by use of stingtype undercover operations. they have been using the authority contained in the administrative provision of the appropriations act each year to make expenditures for undercover operations. while this authority is probably adequate. there are three areas where there is some doubt and specific legislative authority would be helpful to clarify these issues. the first part of the house amendment will provide the necessary legislative authority. it is important to e that. through the appropriations process. congress retains control over the amount allotted each year to undercover operations. also. funds recovered from such operations will continue to come back to the treasury. the three areas addressed are: first. authority to deposit advance of funds in commercial banks or other financial institutions. when the service does this  they feel they must make complete disclosure to the bank. in small communities this can create security problems for undercover agents. specific authority will allow them to keep their identity confidential. second. authority to use proceeds of undercover operations to offset necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in such operations. for example. when running an undercover business you can just buy illegal wildlife. you must also purchase legal animals or products. when these are later sold. the proceeds are used to purchase additional animals or products. this. in effect. keeps you in business. the comptroller general has ruled that money received in the course of an ongoing undercover operation need  be deposited in the treasury until the operation is concluded. nevertheless. specific legislative authority will help clarify these procedures. third. authority to reimburse to current appropriations money expended to purchase evidence and later recovered. this occurs in what is called a buybust operation. for example. an undercover agent purchases illegal wildlife with cash and received the merchandise. the violation is complete. the violator is arrested and the money is seized as evidence. the money recovered for evidence is  a miscellaneous receipt. however. specific authority again will be helpful. the first amendment i am offering today would make a mi change in the house amendment to insure that the clarification of fish and wildlife service authority applies to the national marine fisheries service as well. the second amendment makes technical and conforming changes to public law 97348. the coastal barrier resources act. when congress adopted that conference report on the coastal barrier resources act on october 1 there was some question as to whether several areas in texas were developed or undeveloped. in a colloquy between congressman jack brooks in whose district the affected areas are located and the bills floor manager. congressman john breaux. agreement was reached to reexamine the areas to ascertain their true status. during the octoberember recess information was brought forward to justify mi changes on two maps. t02 and t03. the first map. t02. includes an area that did  meet the delineation criteria of an undeveloped coastal barrier set forth by the department of the interior pursuant to public law 9735. my amendment modifies map t02 to conform with the delineation criteria. the secondmap. t03. had two small subunits erroneously identified as undeveloped when they were actually developed according to definitions set forth in public law 97348. the amendment deletes these two small areas from the coastal barrier resources system. these amendments have been cleared on both sides of the aisle and i move their adoption.*
. today i am introducing an amendment to s. 978. the "protect our wetlands and duck resources act" (powdr). this amendment which is titled the "wildlife and the parks act of 1984" brings the federal government aher step closer to implementing a consistent policy toward the conservation and protection of our nations fish and wildlife resources. the concept embodied in this amendment as well as in the powdr bill was drawn from the coastal barrier resources act (cbra) which i sponsored and which was enacted by congress in 1982. enactment of cbra reaffirmed the federal governments role in conserving and protecting undeveloped barrier and islands along the atlantic and gulf coasts because of their importance in providing essential habitat for fish and wildlife. while doing this. the congress also recognized that the federal government undermined fish and wildlife conservation by subsidizing coastal development through various projects and programs. to resolve this obvious conflict. cbra established a coastal barrier resources system which delineated
. i urge my colleagues to support this important bill. prompt congressional action on this bill would  only provide a temporary solution to the striped bass problem but would also establish a workable system for managing and conserving migratory fisheries on the coasts of the continental united states in a manner that recognizes the important role of the states. to assist my colleagues in their review of this important bill. i ask unanimous consent that the following summary. sectionbysection analysis. and the text of the bill be printed in the rzconw.
. although i prefer the interstate management approach of migratory fish that is outlined in s. 2667. i am offering this bill as a compromisefor the time being. once the secretaries make recommendations. pursuant to section 8 i want to assure. those who are interested in this issue that the subcommittee on environmental pollution will look at them closely. i expect to continue to vigorously pursue the striped bass issue until all necessary actions are taken to restore striper populations to healthy population levels. i thank senators mrrchm. and kennedr for their cosponsorship of the legislation and their continued support. i urge my colleagues to support this proposal.
that is sense. . the morgan stanley vote. 53 to 39. there is a vote on it. somehow all of us did  k what we were doing. we just did  understand it. the senator from michigan understood it. he is speaking for america but the rest of us are all pandering to some special interest or group because we do  stand up. we are  like he. redblooded virile michigander who can tell us how to do things around here. that is sense. let us just suggest how we got into this position. we came back from recess after spending the last part of december talking about the quality of life in the senate and things are going to be better as the group who is opposed to k. what did they start off doing. something that the great filibusters in the past never even designed to do. and that is we are  even going to proceed. we are going to have a filibuster on the motion to proceed. is that fostering friendships and dealing with problems around here. is that getting to the guts of an issue. if it is. it did  improve the quality of my life. i will tell you. in any fashion. . we spent last week on it and this week. and the senator from michigan says we have  had a chance to discuss it. how long are we going to take. can we reach a decision in this body or are we paralyzed. do we have to go on and reopen everything for bidding. let us see. mr. marriott had a bid in there. we will look at it over again. the senator from michigan said he wanted to sell this railroad. when does he want to sell it. in the year 2000. are these people going to keep their bids open forever. he said we would  k what is in it and there are untruths. some of the charges here are so foolish that i do  understand a sensible person like the senior senator from michigan to say these falsehoods. untruths. and this conspiracy and defrauding and illegitimate bidding. that is sense and we k it. there comes a time when we have to make up our minds. we have to fish or cut bait. we voted on this. we have had vote after vote. how many votes have we had on this matter. motions totable. how many votes today. i ask the chair. i will ask anybody.
. id like to add that 10 states. including connecticut. delaware. maine. massachusetts. new york. new jersey. oregon. vermont. california. and alaska have banned the sale of degradable sixpack holders and other plastic beverage connecting devices. italy has recognized the problems of discarded plastics on the environment. in 1984. the italian minister of industry issued a requirement that. by january 1. 1991. all bags and plastic wrappings must be made of biodegradable materials. second. the bill requires the administrator of epa to assess the adverse impacts of discarded plastics on the environment including its effects on fish and wildlife. the bill also requires that within 18 months of enactment. the administrator must make recommendations to congress on actions which might be taken to alleviate the problem. in making the recommendations. epa will consider the environmental. public health. and ecoic impacts of such actions. in undertaking this study. the administrator will consult with the u.s. fish and wildlife service. other government departments or agencies doing research in this area. as well as the affected industries. i hope my colleagues in the senate will join me in this effort to reduce the plastic pollution of our land and waters. the problems posed by discarded plastic materials have been highlighted recently in articles in both the new york times and time magazine. i ask unanimous consent that copies of these articles. along with the text of the bill. be printed in the record.
. our bill amended the definition of the term "plan". as used in the striped bass act. to clarify that it includes the timetable for size limits approved by the commissions striped bass board. that clarification has since been made in the report  only of our committee. but more importantly. in the report of the house committee on merchant marine and fisheries. consequently. the amendment by the leadership of the environment and public works committee would delete the clarifying amendment made by s. 1813 in the acts definiton of the term "plan". the committee amendment to s. 1813 also transfers the miles city national fish hatchery from the u.s. fish and wildlife service to the state of montana. if the property conveyed to montana is ever used for something other than fishery resources management. the title to the property reverts to the united states. finally. the amendment makes a number of technical and clarifying changes. i understand that the leadership of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation has objection to these changes to s. 1813. i move adoption of the amendment.*
. this amendment is offered on behalf of senator humphrey and myself. this amendment to h.r. 4531 would transfer the berlin national fish hatchery from the u.s. fish and wildlife service to the state of new hampshire. if the property conveyed to new hampshire for use by the new hampshire fish and game department as a part of the new hampshire fishery resources management program is ever used for any other purpose. then the title to the property reverts to the united states. i understand that this arrangement is acceptable to the u.s. fish and wildlife service and the state of new hampshire.
. today i am introducing an amendment to s. 978. the "protect our wetlands and duck resources act" (powdr). this amendment which is titled the "wildlife and the parks act of 1984" brings the federal government aher step closer to implementing a consistent policy toward the conservation and protection of our nations fish and wildlife resources. the concept embodied in this amendment as well as in the powdr bill was drawn from the coastal barrier resources act (cbra) which i sponsored and which was enacted by congress in 1982. enactment of cbra reaffirmed the federal governments role in conserving and protecting undeveloped barrier and islands along the atlantic and gulf coasts because of their importance in providing essential habitat for fish and wildlife. while doing this. the congress also recognized that the federal government undermined fish and wildlife conservation by subsidizing coastal development through various projects and programs. to resolve this obvious conflict. cbra established a coastal barrier resources system which delineated
. i urge my colleagues to support this important bill. prompt congressional action on this bill would  only provide a temporary solution to the striped bass problem but would also establish a workable system for managing and conserving migratory fisheries on the coasts of the continental united states in a manner that recognizes the important role of the states. to assist my colleagues in their review of this important bill. i ask unanimous consent that the following summary. sectionbysection analysis. and the text of the bill be printed in the rzconw.
. although i prefer the interstate management approach of migratory fish that is outlined in s. 2667. i am offering this bill as a compromisefor the time being. once the secretaries make recommendations. pursuant to section 8 i want to assure. those who are interested in this issue that the subcommittee on environmental pollution will look at them closely. i expect to continue to vigorously pursue the striped bass issue until all necessary actions are taken to restore striper populations to healthy population levels. i thank senators mrrchm. and kennedr for their cosponsorship of the legislation and their continued support. i urge my colleagues to support this proposal.
that is sense. . the morgan stanley vote. 53 to 39. there is a vote on it. somehow all of us did  k what we were doing. we just did  understand it. the senator from michigan understood it. he is speaking for america but the rest of us are all pandering to some special interest or group because we do  stand up. we are  like he. redblooded virile michigander who can tell us how to do things around here. that is sense. let us just suggest how we got into this position. we came back from recess after spending the last part of december talking about the quality of life in the senate and things are going to be better as the group who is opposed to k. what did they start off doing. something that the great filibusters in the past never even designed to do. and that is we are  even going to proceed. we are going to have a filibuster on the motion to proceed. is that fostering friendships and dealing with problems around here. is that getting to the guts of an issue. if it is. it did  improve the quality of my life. i will tell you. in any fashion. . we spent last week on it and this week. and the senator from michigan says we have  had a chance to discuss it. how long are we going to take. can we reach a decision in this body or are we paralyzed. do we have to go on and reopen everything for bidding. let us see. mr. marriott had a bid in there. we will look at it over again. the senator from michigan said he wanted to sell this railroad. when does he want to sell it. in the year 2000. are these people going to keep their bids open forever. he said we would  k what is in it and there are untruths. some of the charges here are so foolish that i do  understand a sensible person like the senior senator from michigan to say these falsehoods. untruths. and this conspiracy and defrauding and illegitimate bidding. that is sense and we k it. there comes a time when we have to make up our minds. we have to fish or cut bait. we voted on this. we have had vote after vote. how many votes have we had on this matter. motions totable. how many votes today. i ask the chair. i will ask anybody.
. id like to add that 10 states. including connecticut. delaware. maine. massachusetts. new york. new jersey. oregon. vermont. california. and alaska have banned the sale of degradable sixpack holders and other plastic beverage connecting devices. italy has recognized the problems of discarded plastics on the environment. in 1984. the italian minister of industry issued a requirement that. by january 1. 1991. all bags and plastic wrappings must be made of biodegradable materials. second. the bill requires the administrator of epa to assess the adverse impacts of discarded plastics on the environment including its effects on fish and wildlife. the bill also requires that within 18 months of enactment. the administrator must make recommendations to congress on actions which might be taken to alleviate the problem. in making the recommendations. epa will consider the environmental. public health. and ecoic impacts of such actions. in undertaking this study. the administrator will consult with the u.s. fish and wildlife service. other government departments or agencies doing research in this area. as well as the affected industries. i hope my colleagues in the senate will join me in this effort to reduce the plastic pollution of our land and waters. the problems posed by discarded plastic materials have been highlighted recently in articles in both the new york times and time magazine. i ask unanimous consent that copies of these articles. along with the text of the bill. be printed in the record.
. our bill amended the definition of the term "plan". as used in the striped bass act. to clarify that it includes the timetable for size limits approved by the commissions striped bass board. that clarification has since been made in the report  only of our committee. but more importantly. in the report of the house committee on merchant marine and fisheries. consequently. the amendment by the leadership of the environment and public works committee would delete the clarifying amendment made by s. 1813 in the acts definiton of the term "plan". the committee amendment to s. 1813 also transfers the miles city national fish hatchery from the u.s. fish and wildlife service to the state of montana. if the property conveyed to montana is ever used for something other than fishery resources management. the title to the property reverts to the united states. finally. the amendment makes a number of technical and clarifying changes. i understand that the leadership of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation has objection to these changes to s. 1813. i move adoption of the amendment.*
. this amendment is offered on behalf of senator humphrey and myself. this amendment to h.r. 4531 would transfer the berlin national fish hatchery from the u.s. fish and wildlife service to the state of new hampshire. if the property conveyed to new hampshire for use by the new hampshire fish and game department as a part of the new hampshire fishery resources management program is ever used for any other purpose. then the title to the property reverts to the united states. i understand that this arrangement is acceptable to the u.s. fish and wildlife service and the state of new hampshire.
. i am pleased to see that the committee has recommended an appropriation for almost $73 million from the land and water conservation fund and an additional $3.5 million from the migratory bird conservation account for land acquisition by the fish and wildlife service. these recommendations implement the provisions of legislation that i authorized during the last congress. the emergency wetlands resources act of 1986. the rapid loss of open space is one of the most serious environmental problems facing this nation. in my own state of rhode island. the director of the department of environmental management has estimated that we have only 5 years left to save an important but rapidly disappearing resourceopen space. one area of my state that has received federal attention is the trustom pond national wildlife refuge. this refuge was established .through the donation of 365 acres of migratory bird habitat and protects a tidal pond complex that. in the words of the fish and wildlife service. is "unmatched along the southern coast of new england." in fiscal years 1982 and 1985. we appropriated $423.000 and $637.000. respectively. for acquisition of additional acreage in this refuge. according to the fish and wildlife service. approximately $1 million remains to be appropriated to complete acquisition of this refuge. the managers of this bill are familiar with the land acquisition needs in rhode island and i thank them for their support in this area. my question for my colleagues on the appropriations committee is this: although the trustom pond refuge is  specifically mentioned in this bill or the accompanying report. is continued acquisition of this tidal pond complex possible in fiscal year 1988.
. the legislation which senator mitchell. senator cohen. myself and others are introducing today will prevent the importation of lobsters into the united states that do  meet the minimum size requirements of the u.s. fisheries management and conservation system. the purpose of this legislation is  to unduly restrict trade. but to provide a strong incentive for preserving a $300 million industry. rhode island alone harvests over 5 million pounds of lobster per year. worth close to $17 million. over 800 lobstermen are employed in my state. and their livelihood depends on the continued regeneration of a healthy lobster population. this can only occur if we take adequate steps to prevent the taking of lobsters below the minimum size. and encourage this sound management practice along the th american coast. i urge my colleagues to join with us in supporting this legislation.*
. today. senator mitchell and i are introducing legislation to extend the atlantic striped bass conservation act and the emergency stripe bass study for an additional 3 years. i look forward to hearings that have been scheduled for later this month and prompt passage of this important legislation. the plight of the striped bass first came to my attention in 1979. ever since then. i have been working to help save this magnificent fish. in addition to the historical significance of the striped bass. the striper is a delectable tablefish as well as a wonderful game fish. mlay 12. 1988 all along the beaches of matunuck. ri. you can see those early morning. silent sentinels standing there fishing off the nebraska shoals. it is a beautiful sight that is repeated all along the atlantic coast. from maine to th carolina. the striped bass has deservedly been called the aquatic equivalent of the american bald eagle and the possible loss of the striper has alarmed fisherman. scientists. and people concerned about the environment generally. in the late 1970s. it became apparent that more efficient commercial fishing methods. increased recreational fishing. lower production. and degraded habitat were some of the factors that led to a precipitious decline in many of our coastal fish. recognizing that. in addition to the environmental implications. the loss of the striper would have tremendous ecoic consequences. congress mandated the emergency striped bass study in 1979 to determine the extent of the stripers populations and to identify the specific factors responsible for the declining populations. the first part of the study was a success. unfortunately. the success was in the form of reports that confirmed the depressing decline in stocks. the second part. identifying and causes of the decline. has turned out to be much more difficult. by 1984. it became clear that. although we did  have a good handle on the .cause of the declining stocks. steps had to be taken to save the fish. by enacting the atlantic striped bass conservation act. we took the first step to encourage the states to develop. implement and enforce interstate plans for the restoration and conservation of the striper. in 1986. senator mitchell and i sponsored legislation to amend and improve the act by. among other things. authorizing the secretaries of interior and commerce to declare a moratorium on fishing for striped bass in those states that fail to comply with the atlantic states marine fisheries commissions interstate management plan. prior to this. voluntary state actions were  adequately achieving the objectives set out in the management plan. under the :provisions of the plan in its current form. the commissions member states from maine to th carolina prohibit the taking in coastal waters of striped bass that are less than 33 inches in length. the goal is to protect at least 95 percent of all females that entered the chesapeake bay population in 1982 and every year thereafter until 95 percent of these fish have had the opportunity to spawn at least once. the chesapeake bay population is the focus of the plan because. historically. the majority of migratory stripers along the atlantic coast have come from the chesapeake. the record of state compliance with the plan since 1986 has. by most accounts. been excellent. all of the member states and the district of columbia have adopted the laws. regulation and enforcement measures that are necessary to comply with the plan as amended. moratorium has had to be invoked by the secretaries of interior and commerce. recent reports of increased production in areas other than the chesapeake bay. such as the hudson river and some of virginias rivers in the lower chesapeake bay. are cause for optimism. but we have a long way to go to save the striper and we should  rush to dismantle the management program that has been developed over the years and is just  starting to work. the bill we are introducing today will continue our commitment to this management program and keep it in place at least through 1991. similarly. it will extend the ongoing study to determine the precise causes of the stripers decline and to recommend further remedial actions. the kledge we gain from this work should help us in our efforts to preserve and help reverse the decline of other coastal. migratory species of fish. i continue to believe that controls on fishing. such as those included in the interstate management plan. are only part of the answe.". fab.tst preservation and control of environmental contaminants may be even more important. as we proceed to hearings on this bill. i look forward to hearing the views of outside experts on this and other issues related to the fate of the striped bass.* by mr. sasser (for himself and mr. gore): s.j. res. 316. joint resolution designating october 1. 1988. as "national quality first day". to the committee on the judiciary.
. as i stated earlier. 11 states. including my own state of rhode island. have banned the sale of degradable sixpack holders. other states include connecticut. delaware. maine. massachusetts. new york. new jersey. oregon. vermont. california. and alaska. degradable sixpack holders are actually made from photodegradable materials which. when exposed to sunlight. become brittle and break down into microscopic pieces. industry has indicated that it can meet the demand nationwide for degradable sixpack holders. since the techogy exists. and is already in use in several states. it is longer necessary to see sixpack holders littering our beaches and parks and entangling birds and sea lions. i am under illusion that approving this legislation will solve the problem of plastic debris in the environment. sixpack holders constitute only a small portion of the total amount of plastic in the solidwaste stream.. however. passage of this bill will send a strong and important message: that degradability is a viable option. and is one part of the solution to the plastic waste problem. i thank my colleagues for supporting this muchneeded and overdue legislation. the remainder of my statement will further clarify the intent of this legislation. the legislation will require epa to issue a regulation requiring that any plastic ring carrier deilce which is made. used. or designed for the purpose of packaging. transporting. or carrying multipackaged cans or bottles. and which is of a size. shape. design or type capable. when discarded. of becoming entangled with fish or wildlife be made of naturally degradable material which. when discarded. decomposed within a period established by such regulation. only plastic ring carriers should be covered by this legislation.  included for regulation are plastic devices which do  contain an enclosed hole or circle of more than 1% inches in diameter or which do  contain a hole. for the purposes of this legislation "naturally degradable material" means a material which when discarded will be reduced to environmentally benign subunits under the action of mal environmental forces. such as. among others. biological decomposition. photodegradation. and hydrolysis. the epa shall issue this regulation later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this act. unless epa determines that it is  feasible. or that by requiring this regulation significant harm may result to human health and/or the environment. including harm to fish and wildlife. regulated items should decompose in the shortest period of time consistent with the intended use of the item and the physical integrity required for such use. the regulation should allow a reasonable time for affected parties to comply with the regulation and will allow sufficient time for affected parties to use existing inventories.
. the plight of the striped bass first came to my attention in 1979. at that time. we found that we were losing these magnificent fish at an alarming rate. this was and is extremely troubling for a number of reasons: there is the historical significance of this species. there is the ecoic importance of this fish and the concern of commercial as well as recreational fishermen. and there are the environmental implications of such a decline. for many of us. the striper is like the canary in the coal mine. its decline is an indicator of something being seriously wrong. until we can figure out what is going on. we run the risk of losing more than just one species of fish. to respond to this problem. we authorized the emergency striped bass study in 1979. in 1984. we passed the atlantic striped bass conservation act and. in 1986. we extended that law. today. we are considering a bill to extend the study and the conservation act for aher 3 years. passage of this bill is critical if we are to continue the significant progress that we have seen over the past several years.
. it is welldocumented that plastic debris kills thousands of birds. seals. turtles. sea lions. and fish each year. discarded sixpack holders. packing bands. and fishing nets choke and entangle wildlife. findings indicate that plastic products are responsible for the death of up to 90.000 thern fur seals and 1 to 2 million birds. such events have prompted a growing concern among scientists. conservationists. and citizens about discarded plastic. across the country. local beach cleanup efforts have resulted in the collection of tons and tons of debris. last year. 14 rhode island community beach cleanups netted over 10.000 pounds of waste. and in addition to the environmental harm it causes. this debris ruins the aesthetic quality of our beaches. it is difficult to enjoy and appreciate our beautiful natural coastal and open areas if they are littered with plastics. and again. plastics are forever. my legislation will help combat this problem by requiring that sixpack holders be made from degradable materials. such holders are made from photodegradable materials that. when exposed to sunlight. become brittle and break down into microscopic pieces. industry has already indicated it can meet the demand nationwide for such holders. since the techogy exists. and is already in use in several statesincluding my ownit is longer necessary to see sixpack holders littering our beaches and parks and entangling birds and sealions. under the legislation. the administrator of the environmental protection agency will be given 24 months to issue a regulation. and will allow a reasonable time for affected parties to come into compliance. with an allowance for use of existing inventory stock. furthermore. i expect the epa. as part of the study called for by section 2202 of public law 100220. to study and report specifically on the impact of all types of plastic beverage packaging or other plastic devices used to transport cans or bottles on fish and wildlife habitat. as well as on human health and safety. secondly. i expect the epa to analyze the feasibility. cost. and benefits. of making such packaging or devices degradable. i realize that plastic sixpack holders represent only a small part of the overall amount of plastic in the solidwaste stream. however. the passage of the bill sends a strong and important message: degradability is a viable option. and can play a vital role in solving the plastic waste problem. i applaud my colleagues for their support to this muchneeded legislation.
. i am pleased to join the distinguished junior senator from maine in introducing legislation to ensure thd safety of seafood products. as a rhode islander. i am especially aware of the need to reassure consumers about the safety of the seafood that we eat. this legislation. introduced yesterday. will serve as a valuable basis for discussion on this important issue. and i look forward to working closely with senator mitchell and my other colleagues on this matter. we residents of the "ocean state" enjoy the full benefits of a beautiful marine environmentboating. swimming. sailing. but it is also a critical ecoic resource. the fishing industry is central to our ecoy. providing hundreds of jobs for rhode islanders and other new englanders. and we are well kn for our seafood and shellfish. let me extend an invitation to those senators who have  yet visited rhode island or tasted rhode island quahogs: come see what youre missing. in the past few years. however. there has been increasing concernsometimes justified. but often about the health risk4 posed by unsafe or contaminated seafood. this fear has been heightened recently by troubling reports about the state of our marine environment. last year. stories about medical waste and ocean dumping of sludge appeared regularly in newspapers and news broadcasts. other scares about the safety of different fruits have also added to the publics hesitation about what is safe to eat and what is . that is why a national seafood inspection program is important. currently. seafood is regulated by the food and drug administration [fda] and by state agencies. but in order to allay public concerns about seafood consumption. we need a comprehensive inspection system to consolidate and enhance all of the regulatory programs.  only would such a program protect consumers. but it would protect fishermen and seafood processors. it is essential that we give the fishing industry a way to assure consumers that seafood products are  only safe to eat. but are of high quality as well.
. an excellent article on this issue by the director of the fish and wildlife service john turner was printed recently by the orvis news in manchester. vt. i ask that a copy of this article be printed in the record following my remarks.
under the disputes settlement mechanism all kinds of matters come in. they may come in connection with fish or potatoes or shoes or lumber. any number of provisions. there is a dispute. "you canadians. you are subsidizing our timber experts or you are subsidizing the financing of your fishing vessels and therefore the fish that you are sending into this country is coming at a lower price and thus violate the free trade agreement." and under that you go to the disputes settlement mechanism. you do  get to the disputes settlement mechanism by passing a law that says canada should  be permitted to send any fish into this nation that is caught in a vessel that is funded under interest free loans from the canadian government. that is  the way you proceed to the disputes settlement mechanism.
. i -ask mu imous conwith change in federal policy. the sent that acopy of a sectonbysection present value of federal expenditures on description of the bill be printed in undeveloped coastal barriers -over the next the record. "20 years could cost the american taxpayer there being objection. the matefrom $5.5 billion to $11 billion.ter en:oobctntemtlast $5.5earllion te 01abillio f rial was ordered to be printed in the last year. the department of the .in- rzcoatd. as follows: terior estimated that savings to date due to establishment of the coastal s=ionbys1ion dfscron of 0 barrier resources system total over bni.-coastm bamrri rsounczs act $800 million. axwnimszrs or1990 barrier islands. bays. and beaches section i-.ttie. are the first line of defense protecting section -2subsedtionf(t) amends te defithe mainland fromthe wind and wave nition of "undeveloped coastal barrief" by torm :deleting the requirement that it consist of energies associated withmajor st unconsoildated sedimentary materials. and hurxicanes. development of these subsection (b) mnends the definition of areas decreases their ability to absorb "undeveloped coastal barrier" by striking the force of storms and buffer the the provision which excludes :areas wich mainland. the horrible destruction are "otherwise protected" through federal. caused by hurricane hugo was a dras- ztate or local law or by aprivate entity. tic reminder of the susceptibility of subsection (c) contains technical .amendcoastal development to the power of ments -regarding the definition.of "system. nature. the federal emergency man- section 3this section repeals section 4 agement agency has paid out $349 nil- .of the -existing law -and replaces it with the lion in federal flood insurance .claims. -folowingnew provisions: nsibsedtilon ia) establishes that the -coastover half -the balance of the national arbarrierresources systemconsists of: flood insurance prtogram .fund. for 1. unraits which already are within the hugo victims. other disaster relief systecaus () and.(i). costs paid out of the -us. treasury 2. units within the great.lakest(with the due to hurricane hugo total well over exception of two michigan unt -which the $1 billion. department of the interior has since deterand. coastal storms -are often deadly. mined to be developed)which were mapped in 1900. over 6.000 people lost their by thedepartment of the interior pursuant lives when a hurricane struck galves- to the 1988 amendmentsclause (if). 3. new units recommended for inclusion in ton. tx. over 400 people died in the -the system by the department df the inteflorida keys during a 1935 hurricane. rior in the context of their 1988 "report to last year. dr. robert sheets. direc- congress" and undevelopedcoastal barriers tor of the national hurricane center. which are owned and protected by thefedtold the subcommittee on environ- eral government or a private entity -(e: mental protection that the majority of "otherwise protected areas" and military americans living on the -coast have and coast luard lands which are currently moved there during the last few dec- in the system will  be deleted)--clause ades. a period of unusually low hurri- flv). 4. undeveloped coastal barriers owned by cane aclavity..dr. sheets worriesthat the u.s. which -are determined to be "we may - fare as well today as .we excess--subparagraph (a)(1)(b). have in the past -if huricane activity 5. :undeveloped coastal :barriers owned by returns to the frequencies experienced state nr local governments whichthe :state during the 1940s through 1960s." as elects to have included in the 8ystem--subroadway systems have  -kept up paragraph (a)(1)(c). with population growth. it -will become paragraph (a)(2) establishes the meachaincreasingly difficult to evacute coast- nism through which excess ederal undevelal areas in the face of a major storm. oped coastal barrier.properties would be inbeyond the ecoic and safety cluded into the .ystem. -paragraph (ax3) establishes the "optin" issues. aher compelling reason to mechanitsmwhereby govers may elect -to support the coastal barrier .resources have any portion -of an undeveloped coastal act is that it contributes to the.protec- barrier property owned by the.state orby a tion of our nations coastal resources. local government within the state included coastal barriers protect and maintain within the system. the wetlands and estuaries that pro- -subsection (b) provides for the filing and vide fertile acquatic habitat essential distribution of new maps. to the survival of innumerable species subsection (c) provides states with the opportunity and the department with the auof fish and wildlife. large populations thority to make mi and technical amendof waterfowl and other imigratory ments to the maps.the departmentof the birds depend on the habitat protected iwterior would be required :to respond -in by coastal barriers for wintering areas. writing to any state whose boundary modiundeveloped coastal barriers axe fication recommendation was rejected. the areas of unique beauty providing pop- department is also directed to review the ular recreational opportunities. these maps every 7 years and upon the request .of areas deserve protection for -publicen- each states coastal zone management joyment. office. jy ent tt n sssection 4this section amends section 6 1believe that congress should -make provisions on exceptions to the prohibition every effort to conserve barrier iands on .new federal expenditures making some and beaches. this legislation offers an mi.technical changes andrequiringthat opportunity to increase protection of disposal of aredge materials.related to .fedcoastal barriers and. at .thesame time. eral navigation projects (le.. minimizing the damage to fish and wildlife and other natural resources. etc.). section 5this section directs the federal agencies to selfcertify compliance with the act to the senate and house committees and the secretary of the interior (rather than to the office of management and budget as required under current law). section 6this section authorizes appropriations of up to $1 million/year for fiscal. years 1991 and 1992.o
. i am pleased to join as an original cosponsor of legislation introduced by senators stevens and breaux to implement the panama declaration. a dozen countries. several major environmental organizations. the administration. and senators on both sides of the aisle have come together in support of this effort. if we are going to sustain our renewable resources. and particularly our marine resources. we need to take a comprehensive ecosystem approach toward resource use. after all. management of a single species does  always produce benefits for the entire ecosystem it is important that we seek to reduce bycatch of other marine species. such as sharks. sea turtles. and billfish. while we minimize our impact on dolphins. that is why this bill is about more than just tuna and dolphins. this bill includes changes in current law that will have a positive impact on numerous species in the marine environment. the declaration that this bill would implement will commit the united states and a number of cosignatory nations to conserving the valuable marine life in the eastern pacific. moreover. by doing so on a multilateral basis. many of the ongoing international disputes over tuna may effectively be resolved. such strong and sound international efforts are therefore welcome. this legislation represents an important opportunity for all parties interested in marine resources to work together toward our common goal: effective conservation of dolphin and other marine species in the eastern pacific ecosystem. i urge my colleagues to take the time to examine this legislation. and offer comments and suggestions. we have the chance to fashion a longterm solution to the question of marine mammal conservation. and it is my hope that this bill will serve as the vehicle toward that end.* by mr. moynihan (for himself and mr. damato):
. i e that in the seconddegree amendment it provides $1 to the fish and wildlife service to do the entire emergency listing. that shows you how serious the other side is about this whole proposition. in other words. in the underlying bill. there was $750.000 which was available for the downlisting and the other activities in connection with this program. and  they are saying that we are out to take care of this situation because there is an emergency provision. and in order to take care of it they provide $1. it seems to me that shows you how serious really the other side is in proposing this seconddegree amendment. and so i hope that the reid effort to table the hutchison amendment will succeed.
. h.r. 2243. a bill to reauthorize and amend public law 9841. the 1984. trinity river restoration program. is a truly bipartisan piece of legislation. introduced by representative rggs. h.r. 2243 passed the house by a vote of 412 to 0 on december 12. 1995. the bill would extend funding authority for trinity river basin restoration programs through fiscal year 1998. in addition. h.r. 2243 would expand the management plan to aid in the resumption of commercial and recreational fishing. and increase the task force by five members to include representatives from commercial and recreational fishing interests. two native american tribes. and the timber industry. the administration supports h.r. 2243. to date. restoration efforts in the trinity river basin have included the modernization of the lewiston hatchery. the construction of the buckhorn debris dam. sediment collection pools in the grass valley creek. and the purchase of 17.000 acres of highly erodible land in the grass valley watershed. other habitat restoration efforts are underway to encourage natural fish spawning and rearing. including replacement of spawning gravel below the lewiston dam. reestablishment of meander channels. dredging of pools in the trinity river. and feathertapering the rivers edges. reauthorization of public law 98514 will continue the restoration of the grass valley creek watershed. control sediment on tributary watersheds. restore the south forks trinity river fish habitat. and implement a wildlife management program. these efforts will contribute to rebuilding the populations of salmon and trout. which are important to commercial. recreational. and tribal fishing interests.
. section 105(e) of the managers amendment directs the secretary of commerce to provide transshipment permits for up to 14 canadian vessels for the purposes of transporting atlantic herring caught off the coast of maine in the sardine processing trade. i would like to ask the senators whether the managers amendment would also require this herring transshipment practice to be consistent with any applicable regulations. including fishery allocations. approved by the atlantic states marine fisheries commission. the asmfc has management authority for atlantic herring.
as a preliminary matter. numerous rightsofway have been approved in the past as compatible uses in various refuges. and this legislation does  alter the basis under which those activities may be approved in the future. with respect to the periodic reviews. the reevaluation of existing uses is required "when conditions under which the use is permitted change significantly or when there is significant new information regarding the effects of the use. but  less frequently than once every 10 years." for uses that are authorized for periods of less than 10 years. it is my understanding that the fish and wildlife service will. under mal and usual circumstances. review the use at the time of the reauthorization of the activity. the only exception to this would be in situations in which significant new information is developed regarding the effects of the use. or conditions under which the use change significantly.
. i want to engage in a colloquy with the chairman of the subcommittee. senator gregg. on page 93 of the report accompanying the fy99 commerce. justice. state and the judiciary appropriations act (s. rept. 105235) is a provision appropriating $1 million for a data survey of narragansett bay. to be conducted in conjunction with the rhode island coastal resources management council (crmc). i would like to outline to the chairman my understanding of the purpose of these funds. and request his concurrence. the $1 million appropriated for this project is to be used by crmc for a geographic information system (gis) software program to develop digital data on narragansett bays resource conditions. availability and use. advanced sonar techogy would be employed to assess the bays bottom sediment types. habitat and use conflicts. a previous epa study. the narragansett bay critical resource mapping project. was unable to collect data on bottom habitat. due to the limitations of research methods used at the time. the data collected by this project would provide crmc with information that. combined with input from other sources. would be helpful in determining appropriate sites for aquaculture leases. a function currently hindered by inadequate data and ongoing disputes over use. the data would also be useful in making several other decisions related to marine management issues. in addition. the project is intended to provide for studies relating to questions regarding environmentally sound and ecoically sustainable forms of aquaculture by the university of rhode islands partnership for the coastal environment. it is intended that the data collected and developed under this project  only be utilized by crmc. but will also be made available to other federal and state agencies as well as private fishery and conservation groups. i would like to briefly describe some of the entities that could potentially benefit from this data and ought to have access to it. first. the national marine fisheries service (nmfs) and the rhode island department of environmental management (dem) could use the data to identify existing essential fish habitats (efh)  only in narragansett bay. but also in nearby rhode island and block island sounds. in addition. the rhode island ecoic development corporation (riedc) ought to have access to the data in order to help establish suitable shipping lanes for larger vessels serving the cargo port at quonset point. further. the data could be useful to as national estuary research reserve nerr in selecting eelgrass restoration sites. identifying areas impacted by fishing gear. and areas suitable for habitat restoration. finally. the data should be accessible to interested private fishery and conservation groups. such as the rhode island shellfishermens association. the ocean state fishermans association and save the bay. let me also point out what this project is  intended for. this initiative is  aimed at giving preference to one group or interest over aher in the use of. or issuance of permits in. narragansett bay and other marine resources in rhode island. instead. it is simply intended to provide state and federal authorities with the best possible information to assist them in making the most responsible public policy decisions  just on aquaculture permitting. but also on a variety of matters involving our precious natural resources. i would ask chairman gregg if he concurs that the description i have provided on this funding is the committees intent.
as a preliminary matter. numerous rightsofway have been approved in the past as compatible uses in various refuges. and this legislation does  alter the basis under which those activities may be approved in the future. with respect to the periodic reviews. the reevaluation of existing uses is required "when conditions under which the use is permitted change significantly or when there is significant new information regarding the effects of the use. but  less frequently than once every 10 years." for uses that are authorized for periods of less than 10 years. it is my understanding that the fish and wildlife service will. under mal and usual circumstances. review the use at the time of the reauthorization of the activity. the only exception to this would be in situations in which significant new information is developed regarding the effects of the use. or conditions under which the use change significantly.
. i want to engage in a colloquy with the chairman of the subcommittee. senator gregg. on page 93 of the report accompanying the fy99 commerce. justice. state and the judiciary appropriations act (s. rept. 105235) is a provision appropriating $1 million for a data survey of narragansett bay. to be conducted in conjunction with the rhode island coastal resources management council (crmc). i would like to outline to the chairman my understanding of the purpose of these funds. and request his concurrence. the $1 million appropriated for this project is to be used by crmc for a geographic information system (gis) software program to develop digital data on narragansett bays resource conditions. availability and use. advanced sonar techogy would be employed to assess the bays bottom sediment types. habitat and use conflicts. a previous epa study. the narragansett bay critical resource mapping project. was unable to collect data on bottom habitat. due to the limitations of research methods used at the time. the data collected by this project would provide crmc with information that. combined with input from other sources. would be helpful in determining appropriate sites for aquaculture leases. a function currently hindered by inadequate data and ongoing disputes over use. the data would also be useful in making several other decisions related to marine management issues. in addition. the project is intended to provide for studies relating to questions regarding environmentally sound and ecoically sustainable forms of aquaculture by the university of rhode islands partnership for the coastal environment. it is intended that the data collected and developed under this project  only be utilized by crmc. but will also be made available to other federal and state agencies as well as private fishery and conservation groups. i would like to briefly describe some of the entities that could potentially benefit from this data and ought to have access to it. first. the national marine fisheries service (nmfs) and the rhode island department of environmental management (dem) could use the data to identify existing essential fish habitats (efh)  only in narragansett bay. but also in nearby rhode island and block island sounds. in addition. the rhode island ecoic development corporation (riedc) ought to have access to the data in order to help establish suitable shipping lanes for larger vessels serving the cargo port at quonset point. further. the data could be useful to as national estuary research reserve nerr in selecting eelgrass restoration sites. identifying areas impacted by fishing gear. and areas suitable for habitat restoration. finally. the data should be accessible to interested private fishery and conservation groups. such as the rhode island shellfishermens association. the ocean state fishermans association and save the bay. let me also point out what this project is  intended for. this initiative is  aimed at giving preference to one group or interest over aher in the use of. or issuance of permits in. narragansett bay and other marine resources in rhode island. instead. it is simply intended to provide state and federal authorities with the best possible information to assist them in making the most responsible public policy decisions  just on aquaculture permitting. but also on a variety of matters involving our precious natural resources. i would ask chairman gregg if he concurs that the description i have provided on this funding is the committees intent.
i think this is one thing that we see out of mythology with a moose head. a fish tail. and wings. it is neither here  there. is  the senator from wisconsin of the opinioh that the bill. when it says. "the board shall  guarantee or make a commitment to guarantee any loan after october 1. 1971" indicates that a lot of other loans could be thrown in here in a hurry without the possibility of congressional review. does the senator think there is a possibility that the boeing corp. might get a guarantee to restarting the sst.
. i further ask unanimous consent that the special section of februarys issue of fish boat magazine concerning the th american lobster be printed in the record. this article provides valuable background and insight into the industry. its problems. culture and future. and helps to create a better understanding of the issue that this legislation speaks to.
. i hope that whatever the complexity of a national aquaculture bill. it will maintain the $100million ceiling for obligation guarantee loans and  contain provisions for disaster loans and allrisk insurance. my bill embraced these restrictions for reasons of  giving the industry too much federal help at one time and involving all of its redtape and regulations. i believe that the industry needs federal assistance only in the form of scientific data. information dissemination. and loan guarantees and only until the industry gets on its feet. too much federal involvement could be inhibiting and have a softening effect in the long run. the $100million figure should be egh for the next few years to give the needed boost to the industry. disaster loans are already provided by the small business administration and rather than duplicate their efforts. the sba should be given a congressional mandate to increase their involvement in aquaculture ventures. with the exception of stock insurance. other forms of insuranceproperty. liabilityis available to the industry and should be harder to obtain than is available to other industries within the same geographic confines. once the industry starts to grow. private insurance should become more involved. i would like to further express my gratitude to the commerce. science. and transportation. and agriculture. nutrition. and forestry committees for resolving the jurisdictional problems of the bill. i am looking forward to the growth of our aquaculture industry and anticipate some fine dining on the fruits of our efforts.o
. i would like to ask the distinguished senator from hawaii if it is the intention of subsection 5(d) of h.r. 9370. entitled "revision of plan" to include revisions to the national aquaculture development plan that would address environmental impacts due to aquaculture practices. let me explain further. if the plan is found to cause or allow adverse environmental impacts. could the plan be revised to lessen or eliminate such impacts.
. i am very pleased to support the marine artificial reef development act of 1979. this act would establish a program to develop artificial marine reefs for the waters of the united states. vast stretches of our nations coastline are expanses of underwater deserts. particularly along the atlantic and gulf of mexico. these areas are  suitable for many species of marine life particularly those that require rocky habitats. such species as grouper. snapper. tautog. and sea bass require solid substrate and protective cover which are essential to the survival of these and many other marine organisms. fishing is important to the ecoies of all coastal states. in recent years however fishing pressure by the recreational and commercial industries is increasing and further threatens many stocks of fish. artificial reefs can enhance fish populations by providing places for some species to breed and as nursery grounds. in addition artificial reefs provide areas for food organisms to gather and cover to protect fish from predators. large fish which are attracted to the reefs by smaller fish can provide a resource to the sport fishing industry which. by the way. is a $2 billion business in this country. other fish that use the reefs as breeding or nursery grounds may migrate offshore and support commercial fishing. artificial reefs can be built with a variety of materials. from old ships to automobile tires and rock rubble. they therefore. would  only enhance fish populations but would put waste materials to good use.o by mr. bumpers:
. i realize that our posture on oil is of such a positionspecifically. on our kneesthat we do  like to offend anybody who might have a little oil to sell to the united states of america. on the other hand. it also seems to me that the u.s. interest associates as much with the ecology of the oceans and the food therefrom as it does from energy. so. again. today. i issue the warning that that disastrous blowout in campeche bay has  abated and will continue to pollute the gulf of mexico until the u.s. government realizes the gravity of the problem and take steps to deal with the mexicans. i. again. reaffirm my position and relay to my colleagues that the spill continues. it continues after an unprecedented 7 months of uninterrupted flow contaminating  only mexican waters but u.s. waters as well. most importantly at this time. the unusual mild weather has allowed the start of the spring current pattern and  the oil is heading back to u.s. waters and steadily bearing toward our shores. this after months of rhetoric from mexican officials. after months of socalled u.s. diplomacy by our state department. i understand that the state department has worked out an agreement with mexico regarding future oilspills. i applaud this action. but am deeply concerned over the problem that is  back on our doorstep. when do we take a strong stand with mexico and insist that a crash program involving the best people and best techogy be used to shut that well down. do we wait until the last fish in the gulf washes on the beach. the continued mexican oilspill has to be of the gravest concern  only to congress and the administration but to the entire citizenry of the united states. it is  only a mexican or texas problem but it will. in the long term. affect each and every one of us. as a longtime advocate of offshore drilling. i find it incredible that we are going to permit such drilling to take place in our most abundant fishing ground. the georges bank. when it must be clear from campeche that we do have the techogy or. at least. it has  been allowed to put into play. to contain the type of situation as is down there. should that happen. it would eliminate automatically 17 percent of the fish resources of this nation. it is bad egh to stress even a small part of our oceans and coasts but this massive spill could potentially affect whole ecosystems. i understand that the oil slick is about 60 miles from the u.s. coast. the administration whose responsibility it is to protect our oceans and fisheries as well as encourage new energy sources will continue to hear from me on campeche until something is done. this is a good example of how our dependency on foreign oil pollutes our good judgment and strips us of the capacity to respond to wrongs perpetrated on this nation.
. i am sorry that it is necessary to reiterate this issue in this forum. but the fact is that since june 3 of 1979. and contrary to reports by the mexican government. the oilspill from ixtoc i in campeche bay goes on unabated. on more than one occasion i have stood on the floor of this chamber and advised my colleagues of that fact. at a hearing held in december of 1979. a 1day hearing. all the pertinent information on this matter was reviewed very carefully. the conclusion arrived at from that hearing was that. one. the information given us by the mexican government was incomplete. and. two. that in order to ascertain the degree of the problem it would be necessary to have american observers onsite. which request was made of the mexican government by the u.s. government and which request has gone unanswered. to the point of my understanding here on the floor of the u.s. senate. i realize the sensitivity of the matter and the fact that we desperately want mexican oil. but i suggest that because of the rate of flow. which could be anywhere between 5.000 and 50.000 barrels of oil per day. and the large section in the gulf of mexico. the fish life is being literally destroyed. never mind the damage that will be done when the currents push this oil tzack up on u.s. shores. more particularly. on the shores of the texas coastline. i repeat. it is  a question of raising this as a matter of first impression here today. it has been raised on the floor here at least three times by this u.s. senator. it has been formally raised in the matter of an inquiry to the mexican government by the u.s. government. we have had hearings on the problem. and still hing is done. there will be those that say. "well. there are funds in this bill for mexico." that does  bother me. what i want us to do is to use this as the occasion to highlight the anxiety and the protest of this government to the government of mexico for an action which continues in total disregard of both the u.s. interests here on our coastline and the interests of the world in the ecosystems of the gulf of mexico. if one member of the committee can turn to me and justify the failure of the government of mexico to respond to this problem. i will be glad to withdraw the amendment. i am  here for an academic exercise. if one member of the committee can justify the continuance of that oil spill. where the government of mexico has snecifically refused the techogy of the united states and the assistance of the united states. except in the most limited way. and where they have refused onsite inspection. and where they have actually lied to the inquiries made of their government by ours. if anybody can justify that. i stand here eager to listen to the explanation.
. i am pleased to introduce today legislation intended to remedy a serious problem in our fishing industry. every year a portion of the nations valuable fishery resource is destroyed due to the catching and killing of fish r by lost fishing gear. commonly called t "ghost fishing." fishing gear is often lost through accidents. carelessness or i acts of nature. certain types of gear. t such as traps and pots. are particularly t lethal continuing to fish for weeks. a months or even years after being lost. c in addition. when gill nets which are p made of degradable nylon are used ln unprotected waters they may become 1 ost and catch fish for long periods of time. v last year on a diving expedition. i personally observed several fish traps that were lost by fishermen in the waters of the virgin islands and bahamas. these traps were full of fish. some dead. some half dead. the traps were on the bottom and judging from the growth of algae on most of them. they had been in the water for a long time. the traps were efficiently catching fish while e could escape. although i released the fish. it is clear that many other traps which have been lost and never found continue to take their toll. the estimated number of pots lost each year in certain fisheries is in the hundreds of thousands. several states and fishery management plans have regulations which are intended to reduce ghost fishing losses by requiring fishing gear to have "degradable devices." these devices. such as doors with dissolving locks. cotton or wood panels. degrade after a period of time allowing the fish to escape after a trap is lost. however. because the regulations are  standardized. consistent or in some cases do  even exist the effective prevention of ghost fishing is questionable. for example in the new england lobster fishery there are an estimated 250.000 pots lost each year. yet there is requirement for a degradable device. in the king crab fishery there is an estimated annual pot loss of 25.000. and here again there is requirement for a degradable device. both the blue crab and black seabass fisheries have provisions to reduce ghost fishing losses. in other fisheries. such as the spiny lobster fishery of the southwest. the regulations are inconsistent. in this case the state of florida requires a degradable wood panel but over 70 percent of the fishery is outside of floridas jurisdictionand is presently  regulated. the black cod fishery on the pacific coast requires degradable cotton stitching on fish traps but i understand that fishermen generally ige the regulation because of the time needed to periodically restitch their traps. there are cases. on the other hand. where the fisheries are consistently regulated in terms of degradable devices. the tanner crab fishery of the th pacific is controlled by state. federal. and canadian regulations requiring degradable devices. the regional fishery management councils are also preparing management plans for some of these fisheries and in these are addressing the ghost fishing problem. however. there are several species such as the dungeness crab and blue crab. for which management plan is being considered. as new plastic and metal equipment eplace older and less durable wood gear he dangers of ghost fishing will increase harply. this new equipment may last ndefinitely on the ocean floor. because he purpose of the degradable device is he same in all cases. requiring a standrd throughout the nation would reduce ost for fishermen and ease enforcement roblems. piecemeal legislation and reglation has left gaps and creates probems for both fishermen and enforcenent agents trying to comply with the arious laws. this legislation. which amends the fishing conservation an( management act of 1976. will give tho secretary of commerce the authorit necessary to overcome these problem and reduce the destruction of fish resources due to ghost fishing. the secre. tary of commerce. in cooperation wit the fishing industry. should undertake g study to determine which degradable devices are the easiest to maintain ant the cheapest to produce. a single national regulation for standard. cheap and easytouse degradable devices ih in the national interest. i have long been a supporter of fishermen and the fisheries industry of this nation. a healthy fisheries industry depends primarily on a healthy resource. by controlling the losses due to ghost fishing we can conserve and maintain our fishery resource. which will be a benefit to all. the bill i am introducing today would require that all fishing gear that is potentially capable of ghost fishing shall be equipped with a degradable device. the secretary of commerce would be required to make every effort to make these regulations consistent throughout u.s. coastal waters. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed at this point in the record.
 of the helen keller national center for deafblind youths and adults. mr. salmon wrote of helen kellers life and dreams. and enclosed a copy of her letter to him dated july 8. 1960. i ask that the text of the letters of mr. salmon and helen keller be printed at this point in the record. the letters follow:
. ember 11 is polish independence day. on that date in 1918.. the occupation troops of the central powers were expelled fronm the country and the poles reestablished control of their .nation. twentyone years later. the countrys aspirations were driven into the ground under the onslaught of the nazi blitzkrieg. the defeat of the axis in 1945 left poland with 6 million dead as a result of war and geide. unable to stand on its own. the battered nation found itself under the dark shadow of the soviet union. from which it has yet to escape. czeslaw milosz. the great polish poet and el laureate. described the situation of his country with these lines in his poem "song of a citizen": a stone below who has witnessed the seas drying up and a million white fish leaping in agony. i. poor man. bee a multitude of whitebelliedi nations without freedom. i bee the crab feeding on their flesh. today. the eyes and prayers of the free world are on poland. inspired by the 3trength of the solidarity movement. the soul of a nation is stirring again. the people are crying out for freedom. while all the while the soviet tanks crawl along the border. let the soviet union be warned: liberty can be held in chains forever. in miloszs words: the heart does  die when one thinks it should. the people of poland will  live in subjugation forever.*
. the amendment offered by senator gorton would require sba to treat the damage caused to the fishing industry between june 1982 and deember 30. 1983. resulting from el nirelated ocean conditions in the pacific ocean off the west coast. as a disaster for purposes of determining eligibility under 1shias ecoic injury disaster loan program. i understand ti1e devastal ion to the fishing industry caused &y el niand tfe rationale for defining el nias a disaster because of the great numbers of fish displaced by these unusual ecological conditions. however. i am concerned about the impact of this amendment and want to make sure that all of its ramifications are understood. the ecoic injury disaster loan program is clearly a lending program. all lomns made under this program must be repaid and only applicants who can show a "reasonable ability to repay" will be eligible for assistance. do you agree. senator gorron. that this amendment. would simply make qualified applicants eligible for this loan program and that injured partifa receiving loans must have the ability to repay them.
. the amendment offered by senator gorton would require sba to treat the damage caused to the fishing industry between june 1982 and deember 30. 1983. resulting from el nirelated ocean conditions in the pacific ocean off the west coast. as a disaster for purposes of determining eligibility under 1shias ecoic injury disaster loan program. i understand ti1e devastal ion to the fishing industry caused &y el niand tfe rationale for defining el nias a disaster because of the great numbers of fish displaced by these unusual ecological conditions. however. i am concerned about the impact of this amendment and want to make sure that all of its ramifications are understood. the ecoic injury disaster loan program is clearly a lending program. all lomns made under this program must be repaid and only applicants who can show a "reasonable ability to repay" will be eligible for assistance. do you agree. senator gorron. that this amendment. would simply make qualified applicants eligible for this loan program and that injured partifa receiving loans must have the ability to repay them.
. i rise to remind my colleagues of an invitation each of them has received to attend a reception at the smithsonians museum of natural history to mark the opening of a fascinating and informative exhibit. hydrolab. the underwater laboratory that revolutionized ocearaphic research by permitting scientists to live and work in the sea for lengthy periods of time. will go on public display on may 15 at the museum of natural history. this unique laboratory supported research efforts by marine scientists in waters off florida and grand bahama island for 11 years beginning in 1976. the national oceanic and atmospheric administration acquired hyrolab in 1976 for its national undersea research program. which is responsible for providing .manned and unmanned vehicles for marine scientific research. the aowned hydrolab operated for 9 years as an undersea habitat at a depth of 50 feet on the seafloor off st. croix. u.s. virgin islands. during two decades of work. hydrolab served as the base for nearly 200 scientific missions involving more than 400 scientists from 10 countries. without a single mishap. during this time. more aquanauts were trained and more underwater hours were logged in hydrolab than all other working habitats in the world combined. the scientists on hydrolab missions lived on the sea floor for as long as 7 days without returning to the surface. entering and leaving the lab through a hatch located underneath the habitat. wearing scuba gear. the aquanauts could then conduct research excursions to depths as great as 150 feet. some of the many research missions using hydrolab included studies on the importance of seagrass beds as fish nurseries. the behavior of fish toward commercial traps. and the extraction of medicinal compounds from marine animals. research missions using hydrolab ended in 1985. a is  developing a more advanced undersea laboratory where scientists can work in the ocean environment. the new habitat is designed to be moved anywhere in the caribbean. and provides three times the interior living and laboratory space of hydrolab. it can be placed at depths up to 120 feet. and should be operational by the beginning of 1987. this habitat marks the beginning of what i trust will be a new era of advanced undersea research and exploration capabilities. but what we have in the hydrolab exhibit at the smithsonian is the opportunity to see an actual habitat. and when you see it you will believe that this 16feetlong. 8feetwide cylinder was the underwater laboratory that allowed scientists to perform important marine research. the information that those scientists collected from it gave the world tremendous insights into our undersea world. so i hope my colleagues can take the time tomorrow evening to attend the reception and opening of the hydrolab exhibitfrom 7 to 9 p.m. at the smlth~6hian
. i ask plant lifeit is dying. for 5 additional minutes. the atlantic ocean. long island the presiding officer. is sound. you name whatever body of there objection. hearing e. it is so water you care to. the fact is they are ordered.  toilet bowls for man. they look ex- mr. weicker. new york is to be pansive. look massive. look like you commended for the fact that its senacan do anything you want to. well. we tors. both of them. are supporting this have been doing anything we want to legislation. in the theast we do  for decades. the time has come to have mountains and all the rest of the cease and desist. the oceans can natural wonders that are associated take any more. with many of the other states of the the stress on the marine environ- union. our greatest natural resource ment has come to the point where our is our watersnew jersey. new york. greatest natural resources will be connecticut. rhode island. massachudenied to us within our generation- settsthat is it. and the time has never mind our children and our come to give our ocean protection.  grandchildrenwithin our time. to use it as the nations toilet bowl. about 4 years ago the entire dia- the time has come to go ahead and dema population. those are the spiny put money into research. the time has sea urchins that ody likes to see or come to give a the same approstep on. was wiped outin south priations that you give to nasa. america. throughout the whole gulf ody supports the space program of mexico. and the caribbeanwiped more than i do. on the other hand. out. what used to exist in the millions one has to get on his knees to beg for indeed if  billions. was wiped out. a few hundred thousand dollars in retotally wiped out. within the last sev- search. while billions go on to space. eral months they are making a come- and yet this water that we deal with back. but ody ks what oc- so carelessly covers 75 percent of the curred. earths surface. within the last 2 years. the coral money for researchindeed. when population has been bleached. the the lobster and crab problem arose the coral reefs. which in effect are the for- other day. it took everything i could ests of the sea. bleached again from do and every chip that i could expend south america right through the to get $500.000 for a study to find out entire caribbean. ody has the (what is going on. do people feel the answer as to why. fish population. lobsters. crabs. are in both instances. some have worth $500.000 for this great metroguessed changes in the temperature of politan area of the nation. apparentthe water. some have guessed a bacte- ly  too many people felt it was a ria might be involved. but ody priority as. indeed. they feel there is rush. there will be plenty of time to clean up the water at some later date. but we are past the point of return. it is over. the waters are spitting right back at us. so i urge my colleagues to pass this legislation. and i commend my colleagues from the affected states. i might add. it is hing to say that connecticut is exempt. because every time one of our secondary sewage treatment facilities has a glitchand. like anything mechanical. they get glitcheswhat do you think happens. the bypass valve is turned on and we bypass it. as do the communities in new jersey and new york and everywhere else. that is understandable as a matter of emergency. but. in a preplanned way to throw it into the ocean and to throw it into the sound.  more. and that is what this legislation says. it ought to be passed. again. my thanks to my good friend from new jersey. frank lautmenberg. for bringing this to the floor of the senate. i hope it will be on its way before the afterns end.
. the sea that surrounds us is one of our greatest natural resources. for generations the sea has served both as a protection and a means of conveyance. it has provided us with food. equalized our coastal climate. and contributed bounteously to our industry and trade. however. as our population and techogy have increased. the sea itself has been endangered by our progress. in all too many states. wet lands have been turned over to private developers who have built homes. marinas. and resorts but in the process have destroyed vital breeding grounds for waterfowl and fish. thirty of the states of the union border the oceans and the great lakes. their 100.000 miles of coastland contain some of the most diversified beaches. ports. estuaries. and mineralproducing areas to be found anywhere in the world. yet wastes from our cities. from ocean liners. freighters. and factories. have polluted our harbors and shoreline. destroying the creatures that live in the sea and making our beaches unsuited for human recreation. the dangers are very real: whole species of wildlife could be eliminated. and the value of our coastlands for recreational purposes could be permanently impaired. yet for far too long these coastal resources have been taken for granted. while academic and government research have focused on deepsea exploration. in the meantime. oil drilling has been proceeding at a rapid rate. with the type of consequences which we witnessed recently in the santa barbara channel. drilling operations which once destroyed fish with their seismic explosions have  been brought under control. but underwater gear and drilling equipment still remain to plague the fisherman with his nets and lines. in addition. it is deplorable and totally unnecessary that landing of fish by u.s. fishermen have remained constant for 30 years. and that this nation. with one of the most extended coastlines and richest marine resources in the world. accounts for only 4 percent of the worlds fish catch. better use of our natural resources is  only possible. it is imperative. it is for this reason that i introduce today. with the senior senator from massachusetts a bill to be kn as the marine sanctuaries study act of 1969. this bill will authorize the secretary of the interior to study the possibility of setting aside certain of our nations tidelands as marine sanctuaries. to be used for recreation. conservation. and marine research purposes. and to consider the uses to which other areas of our coastland may legitimately be put while preserving our valuable natural resources. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of this bill be printed in the record. and urge its prompt consideration.
to insure the preservation of mooy as it is today. together we join with the people of chatham and adjoining towns. the elected officials of barnstable county. the cape cod planning and ecoic development commission. and other recreationconservation interests in seeking speedy enactment of this legislation.
. this change will  lead to any significant drain on the resources being made available under the watershed protection act. the increments needed to create hatcheries and farm areas typically run $10.000 to $60.000. furthermore. this is a fledgling science and a new industry. while we should encourage its growth. there is reason to expect it to impose large costs on our programs in the foreseeable future. senator stevens and i are working on a comprehensive program for assistance to a variety of aquaculture ventures which we hope to bring to the senate floor later this spring. such a program would be the major source of support for future experimentation with and commercialization of fish farming and hatching. i trust my colleagues. and the sponsors of s. 2484. will find it easy to support this amendment to improve our watershed protection policies.
. i -am cosponsoring the legislation senator kennedy is filing today to change certain procedures with respect. to the administration of the cape cod national seashore. as a result of investigation by a local newspaper. the cape codder. we have discoveredthat a number of private landowners who still have -holdings in the seashore have become substantially wealthier as a result of the vague regulatory mechanism established by the secretary for managing private lands in .-the -seashore. while some of these inconsistencies with the original intent of the act could be remedied by executive action we feel -that it is- so important that the management of these lands be reviewed and revised that we are filing legislation to provide a clear mandate to the -secretary of the interior to do so. i have sent a detailed letter to the secretary of the interior outlining my perception of what has gone wrong at the seashore and the steps that need to be taken to remedy the situation. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of this letter be -printed in the record following my remarks. i also ask unanimous consent that a copy of the editorial from the cape codder entitled "the seashore problem" and a copy of the news analysis entitled "nps report" of the cape cod national seashores report on these problems which was also printed n the cape codder both be printed in the record following my remarks and the letter to secretary cecil andrus.
i do  wish to take the time of the senator unduly. but it seems very clear to me that it is impossible to avoid a comparison between the treatment which is giveni think properlyto seafood and the like. as well as to poultry products from arkansas and other states. and the treatment which is  given to frozen fruits. frozen berries. and frozen vegetables. the difference between canned and permanently packed fruits and vegetables is the same as the difference between canned and permanently packed seafood and frozen food. if one is perishable. the other is perishable. and the need for rapid and flexible transportation applies in both cases.
 kennedy signed into law a bill which authorized the establishment of the cape cod national seashore. mass.. as part of the national park system. the act authorized $16 million for the park service to acquire privately owned lands on cape cod and involved many thousand acres. the land at sandy hook is  privately owned. the federal government already owns it. enactment of my bill will authorize the department of the interior to take possession of this 1.200 acres. operate and maintain it for continued recreational purposes. and place in new jersey its first national seashore recreation area.
if i may first comment i appreciate the attitude the manager of the bill has taken. and it is  my desire to interfere with the work of the administrator. or to make this the sole criterion by any means. my first concern is providing emphasis on and the direction of all our thinking to the fact that it is in the area near the shore. on the continental shelf. that most of the activity which we want to protect exists. that is. the breeding of fish and wildlife and all the rest. and where the danger of pollution and its effects undoubtedly will be found by the research contemplated by this bill to be most harmful. it is therefore a matter of emphasis and direction of everyones thinking. including particularly the administrators thinking. toward the fact that we want to get at pollution where it is most harmful.
. i shall be forgiven and understood for uttering these words. i am  critical of anyone concerned. i k every senator is trying to do his best for our country and for the world. sometimes it is helpful if we look at things in that light. bearing in mind the fact that we are  only in a fish bowl for the united states. but also in a fish bowl for the whole free world.
 with a concept of the world mission of the united states. the manhattan brownstone was owned by the roosevelt family when theodore was born there october 27. 1858. he spent part of his childhood there. sagamore hill. which overlooks oyster bay and long island sound. was roosevelts home from 1887 to his death in 1919. the interior department has said that fees and the endowment will probably make both properties selfsupporting.
 van buren. the only thing that remains is for action to be taken to effectively set up the machinery for preserving this historic property. bills on this subject have been previously introduced in both houses of congress including a bill which i have previously introduced. in this session. congressman fish of new york has introduced this bill in the house and i am hopeful that we will finally take action to preserve this historic property. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
s of the united states whenever we have an appropriate opportunity. lindenwald presents us with a fine opportunity and the senate has it. a companion bill. h.r. 3619. has been introduced in the house by congressman hamilton fish of new york which hopefully will soon be acted on.
. i shall briefly explain my position in support of this amendment. offered by senator bentsen as modified by senator stvens. i am generally opposed to unilateral boycotts as a mechanism for vindicating commercial interestseven legitimate commercial interests as are involved here with respect to shrimp fishing. the language of this amendment is carefully framed to leave discretion in the secretary of state. who is in a position to evaluate the potential from negotiation that might be derived before taking a step so drastic as a commercial boycott. i have grave doubts about this bill at the present time. particularly since the law of the sea conference will reconvene in new york city in march of this year. however. i believe it is useful. in the context of this legislation. to reaffirm the authority of the secretary of state to the decisive action to vindicate our legitimate and crucial fishing interests. i. therefore. will support this amendment.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two newspaper editorials germane to this subject. as well as a report entitled "trees in urban environments." prepared at the request of myself and representatives richmond and fish of new york. by dr. thomas s. elias of the cary arboretum of the new york botanical garden.
