 kosygin. and to the editors of pravda and izvestiabut with results. confusion and ambiguity regarding soviet jews are  limited to emigration policies. although officially the soviet constitution forbids antisemitism. high government officials and government propaganda agencies continue to grind out antisemitic. antizionist vituperations which in effect are stifling jewish cultural and spiritual development. soviet authorities have suggested to me that there is a large. latent reservoir of historical antisemitism which might surface if "special treatment" is given to soviet jews to emigrate to israel. my answer is: is it worse to be discriminated against when you can leave or when you can. a letter sent to premier kosygin june 6. 1969. signed by three moscow jews. describes the situation better than any words of mine: our families were brought up in the jewish cultural tradition." the three muscovites said. "but in the present conditions of soviet reality. our children are denied any possibilitj of learning their mother tongue. or becoming acquainted with the great heritage and spiritual values of our nation. because the jewish nationality. unlike the other nationalities living in the ussr. is subject to cruel discriminations in the ussr. there are jewish schools or other educational institutions. theatres. and . . . jewish periodicals with the exception of one monthly. indeed. everything jewish. is iged an author like (trofim) kitchko. a orious antisemite. is allowed to publish a book which is better than czarist propaganda. all this injures our national feelings and our dignity as human beings. to remain in this atmosphere of antisemitic propaganda and discrimination has become unbearable to us. we regard ourselves as jews. emotionally and spiritualy attached to the state of israel. the mention of trofim kitchkos book is just one reminder of how the soviet government. which owns and controls all publishing facilities. seems to violate its own prohibitions against antisemitism. in his latest antisemitic attack. judaism and zionism. kitchko did  merely limit himself to distorting the political struggle in the middle east. he concentrated on what he said was the intrinsic "aggressive and inhuman" policies of judaism as a faith. he said: judaism has always served the interest of the exploiting clases. he continued: in our times. its most reactionary postulates have been taken up by the zionists. the jewish bourgeois nationalists. to offset continuous criticism from abroadand from withi the charges in the letter from the three moscovites. the soviet union paraded out more than 50 prominent soviet jews at a wellpublicized press conference. this past march. and had them dence israel and zionism. and strenuously deny all charges of antisemitism in the u.s.s.r. one of the prominent personalities. who appeared at this march press conference was the comedian arkady raikin--sometimes referred to as the soviet charlie chaplin. his appearance and apparent compliance with the sentiments expressed that day caused david zilbermae of the men whose petitions i haveto write a truly heartrending letter expressing his shock and disappointment at what he calls ralkins "shameful participation." zilberman wrote to raikin on april 10. 1970: i had always believed in you fully. considered you one of the most democratic and upright representatives of the jewish people. but zilberman said that as he listened to the rhetoric of the socalled spokesman of his people. his opinion of raikin changed: neither you ( the others) have been empowered by anyone to speak in the name of the jewish people and to "defend our interests." perhaps these 50 soviet jews were antiisrael and antizionist and never felt the sting of antisemitism. certainly there are those in every miity group who find it easier to go along than to fight. who prefer identifying with the majority to reaping both the benefits and the problems of the miity. however. they do  speak for all of the two and a half million jews in the u.s.s.r. americans who visit the u.s.s.r. regularly return with documents proving that soviet jews suffer discrimination: they are relegated to secondclass jobs. they are forced to rence any right to religious and ethnic development. in addition. the soviet jews themselves court great personal danger to send out hundreds of letters and documents such as the ones that have come to my attention. the risks these men and women have taken. as well as our own extensive concern. must impel us to reject the rhetoric of raikin. dymshitz and others as the authoritative voice of soviet jewry. yet our protests must be as humanitarian as our ends. we can condone violence and anger here in the effort to condemn it elsewhere. i do  like to see tactics of confrontation politics used to advance so le a cause as judaism. i might point out at this time that the russians protested. in a protest i would like to make a part of the record. that their representatives in this country have been insulted and shamed by those who would protest the policies which are discriminatory against jews in the soviet union. i deplore such activity and hope it will cease because i think it gives added excuse to the soviet union for continuing such policies. i would like to point out the tremendous irass meetings of youth. like those in new york and other cities throughout the country. one of which i addressed. involving 20.000 young americans in front of the united nations. these mass meetings are proper and magnificent examples of the sense of outrage and protest which properly animates these young people. and is properly communicated to the united states. the world. and the united nations and. hopefully. will have some effect on the soviet union. with the utmost desire to seek peace. nuclear arms limitation in the salt talks and other instances of detente with the u.s.s.r.. it is yet proper and necessary to ask these fundamental questions of the soviet government: first. in the face of such antisemitic provocations as trofim kitchko. yuri iva. ivan shevtsov and others. is the soviet union living up to its own avowed prohibition of antisemitism. i wish to interject at this point that certainly such books are published in this country as well. but also this country leaves open the freedom to publish many other books on different sides of the issue in order to enlighten the public. and to maintain schools and institutions. and other means for apprising the public of the case against the case of these antisemitic writers. in the soviet union. where the press is controlled by the state. only one side of the case is published. that is the basis for the protest.  the publication. but the fact it is by government dictate and so onesided. the second question i ask is: second. are the statements uttered at the march 4. 1970. press conference in moscow concerning the supposed prosperity and happiness of soviet jews reliable. or are they a cynical ploy to confuse those in the west who are concerned. third. does the soviet union adhere to the universal declaration of human rights. which allows free emigration as put forth in article xiii. or has it rejected this international principle. fourth. is the paris statement of premier kosygin about jewish emigration actually the policy of the u.s.s.r. or was this simply a release for the western press. fifth. why do the leaders of the soviet union keep us guessing concerning their treatment of and policy toward the jewish population of the u.s.s.r.. the case of boris kochubiyevsky. a young engineer from kiev. comes immediately to mind. in 1967. at a union meeting. kochubiyevsky publicly challenged the allegation that israel had been the aggressor in the 6day war. the following year kochubiyevsky attended memorial services at babi yar near kiev. where 150.000 jewsincluding his own fatherhad been massacred by the nazis. word of the jewish tragedy is evident at babi yar and kochubiyevsky protested this. his protest was overheard and duly recorded. soon after. boris and his wife applied for emigration to israel. suddenly. while his application was still pending. kochubiyevsky was arrested and tried for "slandering the state." in may 1969. he was sentenced to 3 years at hard labor. after waiting 1 year in jail. he began. this june. his 3year sentence in a labor camp outside of kiev. why. on the one hand. are jews like boris kochubiyevsky punished for speaking their minds and. on the other hand. jews like benjamin dymshitz encouraged to dence israel and cynically dismiss antisemitism in the u.s.s.r. as a mere insinuation. so the sixth question i ask is: sixth. is petitioning for emigration in the u.s.s.r.  considered a criminal offense. if why can all those petitioners who are currently in jail be released. why can the u.s.s.r. permit jews who have applied for emigration to israel to leave within a reasonable time. seventh. why can ethnic schools in hebrew and yiddish be permitted to teach the cultural and historical and heritage of the jewish people to those who wish to learn. and thereby accord the jews the rights allegedly guaranteed to them and all ethnic groups in the
. i wish to bring to the attention of my colleagues an outstanding project in new york citys jewish museum located on fifth avenue.  being supported by the national endowment for the humanities. as part of its ongoing efforts to share the richness of our nations diverse cultural heritage with all americans. the endowment is sponsoring an exhibition of jewish ceremonial textiles through august of this year. this exhibit is particularly significant as it is the first major display of this kind anywhere in the world. visitors to the jewish museum can see and touch the textiles. and can avail themselves of descriptive materials explaining the relevance of the various items to jewish religious observance both in the synagogue and in the home. i had the distinct pleasure of viewing these very beautiful articles shortly after the exhibit opened in december. their artistic and historical value should be of great interest to any of my colleagues who may have an opportunity to visit the exhibit. the jewish museum has earned special ren for making its extensive collection of ethnic decorative arts and accompaning educational materials readily accessible to all with an interest in jewish culture. for the additional information of interested individuals. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a recent neh press release which describes the textile exhibit in detail and mentions two other neh projects related to jewish history and culture.
