i shall  detain the senate for more than 10 minutes. i believe the senate has manifested its views. and i am merely carrying out the principle that i had set out to carry out by presenting the amendment and arguing for it. the result is very clearly indicated by the last yeaandnay vote. and i shall  trouble the senate in that way again. what i am seeking to do is to restore to the budget amount the category of salaries and expenses which relate to the basic program of the usia for the ensuing fiscal year. the allowance in the house was $110 million. the amendment requested by the agency by way of restoration was $8.050.000. about $4 million was restored. part of that being in foreign currency funds. i am seeking to restore that amount. under the circumstances. judging from what we have seen in the world. including the resumption of nuclear testing. and in the course of our debates on foreign aid. i believe it to be most unwise for the appropriations committee to refuse the requests of the information agency for restoration of more than $8 million to its appropriation after the other body had cut $12.6 million from the budget requests. the senate committee granted operating funds of $3.5 million above what the house had granted. but this was less than half of the $8 million the agency had requested the senate to restore. i have already dealt with the information media guarantee program. in connection with which i believe the senate has made a great mistake. in letting the matter leave here without having restored the $2 million. the agency did  appeal the $41/2 million of the reductions made by the house. this is due primarily to the fact that the initial request of the president proposed $3 million to speed construction of a new radio facility in africa. however. the passage of time had largely wiped out the possibility of substantially accelerating this project. so that . in spite of the importance of getting our message across to the new nations in africa by radio. it is too late to expedite our efforts. this itself is a sad commentary on how we have dealt with the voice of the united states to the world. uncle sam is a big man with a big stick but with a small voice. it is very sad to relate. i understand  that the agency has pending requests for some $2.400.000 to step up very sharply its broadcasting to latin america and to the embattled countries in southeast asia. as well as a request for $3.6 million for a new radio facility to be constructed in the middle east. however. these requests have  yet been acted on. i mention them in the hope that by reason of the credible showing we have made on the past vote. considering the strength which the appropriations committee brings to the floor. we will get from the appropriations committee sympathetic consideration of these additional requests which have  been acted on. let us turn for a moment directly to my pending amendment. the specific purpose of which is a request for additional operating funds. the need for which was spelled out in the hearings so ably conducted by the senior senator from arkansas. only about 40 percent of these needs can be met on the basis of the action taken by the committee. in my opinion. these needs are essential to our security. and the u.s. information agency should be given the full $8 million requested to be restored by the senate. specifically. in africa. $2.800.000 was requested to open seven new posts. including a program in the new country of mauritania. to expand our english teaching program. to set up regional exhibit and publications programs adapted to the cultural levels of cultures in that continent. and to improve the facilities and capabilities of existing programs. in latin america. the agency asked for $2.354.000 primarily to expand regional book translations facilities which would give us a reasonable opportunity of competing with the communists in a field in which they have been preeminent. to establish six additional binational centers and establish community centers in six countries and student centers in eight countries. to establish three additional branch posts designed to improve our communications with the population in the interior of these countries. for the near east and south asia. the agencys request of $780.000 in additional funds is for additional motion pictures in such countries as afghanistan. pakistan. and india. for aiding binational centers in four countries of the area. for english teaching. and for support costs of special publications and binational center assistance projects in the area which are being funded from excess foreign currencies. in the mushrooming television media. the agency requests $500.000 in additional funds. largely for a series of anticommunist and englishteaching programs. designed primarily for countries in latin america. the balance of the funds-$1.616.000are requested for such worthwhile activities as film coverage of visiting dignitaries. improved area and language training for its staff. and administrative costs related to specific programs already outlined. in southeast asia. the agency will have to expand its programs in thailand. cambodia. and vietnam. even though its original budget. which was prepared before the current crises in that area arose. did  propose specific increases in the far east. the recommendations of the appropriations committee that the agency achieve savings by reviewing the effectiveness of its activities and by curtailing activities in friendly allied countries are good ones. and i do  disagree. however. i am convinced that any such savings will be required in full in other areas of the worldincluding the far eastif we are to achieve the strengthening of our vital information efforts. we have already debated in great detail the information media guarantee program. i regret very much the action taken on that program. i repeat that i believe it represents a great mistake. there is one additional fact that i wish to put in the record with respect to the bookpublishing program. in 1960 the sioviet bloc produced 55 million books in the free world languages. an increase of more than 30 percent over their 1959 level. then there is also the steady and heavy flow of periodicals from the presses of moscow and peiping. especially to latin america and africa. the american producers of informational materials must have assistance if they are  to surrender the markets to the communists in those countries where there are foreign exchange difficulties. we are told that the russians are spending $2 billion a year for their propaganda. they give away radio sets in areas where they will do them the most good. to people who are too poor to buy them. general sarf. whom we hoed today with a luncheon. has suggested such a course for years. he thought we ought to be spending $3 billion for propaganda. that comes closer to what is needed. i again hazard the guess that the day will  be long deferred when again. as we are in space. we will be appropriating hundreds of millions of dollars to catch up. when $100 million or $150 million would enable us to utilize our voice. big and strong and decisive and to the full. if we are to act decisively in the cold war. i close as follows. . fourth place is our place in the information activities of the world. the united states is behind the united arab republic. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article entitled "big push in soviet propaganda." written by eugene burdick and william j. lederer. the authors of "the ugly american." and published in the saturday evening post of august 26.
