. this is shocking. i believe that hud should be the model for maintenance and management of these troubled projects. instead. we have heard that hud management and maintenance is frequently far worse than prior to huds assuming ownership of these projects. i think that good management and decent maintenance of these projects are essential if we are to resolve the problems of hudassisted housing. of course. there are many other problems. particularly that operating costs have far exceeded tenant incomes during the past few years. i have asked the chairman to hold hearings in the near future on this national problem of hud multifamily projects. the committee report on this bill includes language which urges hud to change its own policies and practices regarding these projects. it states that hud should  follow its policy. which is published in regulations. of selling off projects at the earliest possible time. instead. hud should retain these projects until management and maintenance are up to an adequate level. if this means rehabilitation or major repairs. these should be done by hud. then. when hud sells these projects. it would assure that hud will receive a better return on its investmentand protect the fha insurance fundand that living conditions for tenants are improved. upon sale. hud should assure that tenants and future tenants will be protected from rent increases beyond their ability to pay through the use of section 8 or other subsidies. the chafee amendment. as i understand it. is addressed only to section 236 operating subsidies. this amendment would require hud to implement the section 236 operating subsidy program. congress authorized a limited operating subsidy program in the 1974 housing and community development act to cover increases in utility costs and property taxes for tenants paying over 30 percent of their incomes for rent. substantial increases in operating expenses have led to defaults on a number of these projects. hud has decided  to implement this program. and has been taken to court in at least a dozen cases brought by tenants. the supreme court has agreed to review two of these cases. it has been huds policy to seek other means to aid projects and tenants. such as section 8 subsidies in loan management projects. hud maintains that this program would be difficult to administer. particularly because of the need for income recertifications for tenants living in the projects. legal services groups have strongly favored this amendment. they argue that many tenants are paying more than 50 percent of their adjusted income for rent. funding would be available to pay these subsidies for lyear from the section 236 reserve fund. this is a shortterm partial solution to a much more serious problem. i point this out to the senator from rhode island. because it addresses. only section 236 projects and  projects built under section 221(d) (3). and they are having similar problems. i hope we will  continue to look at these problems in a patchwork manner and devise a program to resolve the whole problem. i commend the senator from rhode island for his initiative because. apparently. hud is  willing to look at this problem as a whole and develop a comprehensive solution. i am sure that has caused my colleague to offer this amendment which does a patchwork job. and does assist those tenants paying rents beyond their ability to pay in section 236 projects. which has been a very serious problem. hud has said that it will be working with congress to develop a viable subsidy mechanism for section 236 and section 221 (d) (3) projects. i have asked the committee to hold further hearings in washington on the entire problem of troubled multifamily projects. i thought it would be wise to defer action until these hearings had been completed. i understand that senator javts was considering a more comprehensive amendment on section 236 operating subsidies. similar to provisions in the housepassed bill. it would broaden the subsidy to include other operating costs as well as property taxes and utilities. on the whole. though. i agree that this approach. with the modification that the chairman of our committee has offered. will be extremely beneficial. i believe the modification has been accepted by the senator from rhode island. is that correct.
