. william j. driver is leaving the veterans administration. but the contributions he made in 20 years of service will continue to benefit the veterans of this nation for years to come. throughout mr. drivers va service. the growth of veterans programs and extension of benefits to veterans and their families brought about increasing workloads in the va and a need for effective and efficient tools for processing the masses of data associated with the administration and operation of veterans programs. to this end. the most modern business tools and techniques are being employed. the va was one of the first federal agencies to use computers for the processing of large amounts of data. having initiated the program under the leadership of the then administrator. sumner whittier. mr. driver. as the chief benefits director. recognized the vast potential of automatic data processingadpand was an enthusiastic advocate of its use. he was responsible for the conversion of the emous compensation and pension system. from a variety of manualmechanical operations maintained at 69 separate stations to a centralized adp system. the magnitude of this undertaking may be appreciated by the fact that this system maintains 4.6 million accounts and disburses about 57 million checks each year representing government benefits to veterans and their families totaling close to $4.5 billion. as deputy administrator. mr. driver played a leading role in establishing a new department. the department of data management which centralized the supervision of all data processing activities and resources of the agency under a single organization. this was a pioneering step subsequently taken by many in private industry and elsewhere in the government. during mr. drivers tenure as administrator of veterans affairs. the development of automated systems to replace the slower and less flexible manual systems has flourished and brought about greatly improved service to veterans at far less cost to the government. under his leadership. the va personnel and payroll operation was converted to a centralized adp system. the system automatically processes personnel and payroll data for over 170.000 central office and field station employees. every other week it produces a magnetic tape authorizing the treasury department to issue salary checks. and u.s. savings bonds and es for va employees. the system also generates personnel documents. various management reports and accumulates cost accounting data. mr. drivers ability to anticipate an agency need for adapting to changing conditions brought increasing emphasis on the use of computers to facilitate expanding operations. by mid 1969 the va had over 50 dataprocessing systems in operation. most of which replaced less effective processes and lowered administrative costs. these processes have provided administrative savings totaling close to $20 million. these are recurring annual savings which on a cumulative basis total over $86 million. in addition. about $21 million savings have been realized from adp systems which were developed to satisfy onetime requirements such as a federal pay raise or an increase in veterans compensation and pension payments. as administrator. bill driver set an example that i hope others will follow. service to veterans was first in his mind and he balanced it with an ecoical awareness. my warmest wishes go with marion and bill driver. i k that bill will contribute greatly to whatever endeavor he undertakes. and i truly appreciate the many years of outstanding service he has given to this nation.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on antidiscrimination of the committee on labor and public welfare be permitted to continue its hearings  being held. which will probably proceed for aher hour.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare be permitted to sit throughout- the day for the purpose of holding.a hearing on senate bill 1390.
i believe the senator from florida very likely recalls the various discussions which took place in 1947 in the senate committee on labor and public welfare during our consideration of the committee bill. which finally was reported by the senate committee. am i correct.
the senator from new york appreciates the courtesy of the senator from utah. the senator from new york would like to inquire of the senator from utah if he does  recall that a very large part of the tafthartley act came from the committee bill reported by the senate committee on labor and public welfare in 1947.
 hoover himself recommends it. and it constitutes a part of the overall recommendations of the hoover commission. as i have already stated. pertaining to the transfer of agencies to the department of labor. the field of employment service. alone and of itself. would seem more properly to belong in the department of labor than in any other agency of government. for in theory. at least. the department of labor. in fulfilling its statutory obligation to foster. promote. and develop the welfare of the wage earners of the united states and to advance their opportunities for profitable employment. would seem naturally to be the appropriate instrument of government to administer the placement functions of the employment service. on the other hand. it seems to me that right  the weight of argument favors retention of the employment service and the unemployment insurance service in the federal security agency. reorganization plan  2. as i have indicated. complies only in part with the recommendations of the hoover commission. and was  specifically recommended by the task force of that commission which stated its position as follows: the nature of this issue regarding the proper location of the federal agency administering the employment service and unemployment compensation precludes its settlement on a purely factual basis. and in the last analysis this judgment must be exercised by the duly elected representatives of the people. there is just as good reason. moreover. for keeping the unemployment insurance service in the federal security agency as for placing the employment service in the department of labor. after all. unemployment insurance would seem to be most definitely a part of our overall socialsecurity system. unemployment insurance constitutes one feature of an almost completely integrated socialsecurity program  lodged in the federal security agency. this agency. which deals with the individual citizen as a human being. is interested in improving health and educational opportunities. and in furthering ecoic security. it would seem only natural. therefore. that all functions which concern the social welfare of our citizens as individual human beings properly belong in a single agency. collectively. and as related to employment. compensation in the event of unemployment. compensation during temporary disability due to accident or sickness. extended disability benefits if provided. oldage insurance. survivors benefits. and assistance for those  eligible for insurance benefits are inevitably closely related and provide in effect such ecoic security as is thus far available through the instrumentality of our government. they form. moreover. component parts of what would be a single integrated program. when we examine further into the issues in dispute in this matter. we can appreciate more fully the weight of the argument in behalf of the retention of the unemployment insurance service in the federal security agency for the time being at least. unemployment insurance is  merely a system of tax collection and benefit distribution from the funds thus accumulated. it is. and has become more and more.. an insurance system which it very properly should be in our free competitive enterprise ecoic structure. this fact having been recognized 14 years age. what is kn as experience rating was adopted as an important element in unemployment insurance. in brief. experience rating is that mechanism by which the rate of tax or contribution by employers is determined by the employers record in maintaining stability of employmentthe greater the stability. the lower the rate of contribution. this system of graduated tax or contribution consists primarily of a standard requirement of a 3percent tax on pay rolls paid by employers. onetenth of which is a fixed charge payable to the federal government for administrative purposes. the other ninetenths of which may be reduced on the basis of experience with respect to unemployment or other factors bearing a direct relation to unemployment risk. as provided in section 1602 of the internal revenue code. over the years. experience rating has been adopted in all 48 states of the union. it has become an established policy in unemployment insurance. it has served as an incentive to employers to provide steady employment. its use has demonstrated the justification for its existence. although it has become more and more evident that  all plans of experience rating are equally sound. employers. with few exceptions. favor the principle of experience rating and have come to oppose any move on the part of government which would seem to threaten its existence. at the same time. organized labor has  appeared for the most part to favor any form of experience rating. i can appreciate labors attitude in this connection. for i can well understand labors apprehension. labor fears in the first instance that careless operation of or inadequate provisions in any experience rating formula could jeopardize the solvency of unemployment insurance funds. furthermore. labor feels that chances for liberalizing the benefit provisions in unemployment insurance are less with experience rating than without it. i can share labors apprehension in this latter connection. for the amount and duration of benefits have been increasing rather than decreasing. but i do fully recognize the danger of fundimpairment where formulas or administration are inadequate or inefficient. i am constrained to observe. however. that placing the unemployment insurance service in the department of labor can provide greater assurance regarding the sanctity of the unemployment insurance funds. possibly because of these conditions secretary tobin has stated that the policy of the labor department with respect to the retention or abolition of the experience rating system has  been determined. and that he would  care to give a decision on this matter untilhe hasstudied the facts more fully. this attitude on the part is understandable. but it nevertheless appears to occasion considerable apprehension among employers who. in spite of the fact that the federal security agency has advocated the abolition of experience rating. would seem to prefer that the unemployment insurance service remain in the latter agency. i assume that these employers feel that the department of labor might be more aggressive and might be able to exercise more influence upon the congress than would the federal security agency. be the situation as it may appear to be. a number of important facts remain which are incontrovertible where the proposed transfer of these two services to the department of labor is involved. first. rightly or wrongly. employers do fear the consequences of such a transfer. they seem to feel that the status of unemployment insurance itself. and especially experience rating. would be in jeopardy. second. administrative interpretation. applicable to the term "other factors" in section 1602 of the internal revenue code. could virtually eliminate experience rating. or the possibility of an experience rating nlan worthy of the name. from nearly every state in the union. while the law provides that experience rating systems or plans may be established according to general specifications. it leaves with the administrative agency the actual determination of the "factors" to be considered in the establishment of these systems. this broad latitude for interpretation which is thus given to the administrative agency. emphasized as it is by the vast number of regulations which already have been promulgated by the federal security agency in dealing with the matter. indicates the power of determination which the law itself actually vests in the administrator or the administering agency. third. unemployment insurance. while created principally for the benefit and protection of employees. is of equal concern to management and ownership who constitute its chief contributors. it is the product of partnership between workers. management. and ownership. the primary purpose of which is to protect the workers through cooperative support by management and ownership. in effect and in reality. unemploymentinsurance funds belong as much to management and ownership as to the workers themselves. fourth. a basic controversy is  taking place in the country with regard to the future status of unemployment insurance. should it remain as it is. partly in the federal government and partly in the states. should it be operated and administered exclusively by the federal government. or should it be returned wholly to the states. presumably some states with substantial unemploymentinsurance funds would prefer to have this governmental service returned to them. presumably other states. whose funds may be impaired or depleted. would desire that it remain in status quo. or even be taken over entirely by the federal government. thus far there seems to be predominant opinion in this controversy. fifth. rightly or wrongly. employers seem to feel also that. if the proposed transfer were to be made. the value of the employment service would be damaged. due to an ensuing lack of cooperation between the department and employers where placement is concerned. they believe that in administering the employment service. the administrator or administering agency would assume even greater discretion and would be able to exercise even greater control in directing the state systems than would be the case in the matter of unemployment insurance. i do  join in or dispute the provocation for this attitude on the part of employers. but as witnesses at the hearing pointed out. the important fact is that the attitude exists and that it might constitute a detriment to the satisfactory functioning of the employment service. sixth. the placement function in the employment service primarily fulfills the purpose of the department of labor to advance opportunities for profitable employment. but the act remains that private employers and  the department of labor must provide the employment and that. unless there is a cooperative attitude between employers and the employment service. this service can function effectively or successfully. seventh. regardless of present dispute or controversy concerning alleged advantages or disadvantages in placing the employment service and the unemployment insurance service in the department of labor. the indisputable fact stands out that the functioning of these services. located as they have been and are at the present time. appears to have occasioned reasonable criticism concerning their administration by the federal security agency. and the proposed change seems clearly to be advocated for the main purpose of increasing the functions and activities of the department of labor. eighth. placing the employment service and the unemployment insurance service in the department of labor would undoubtedly enhance the prestige of that department. but failure thus to act would in way jeopardize the existence of the department itself. there may be those who would like to see the department of labor abolished. but i have never heard advocacy of such action by any member of the congress. and all of us k that any attempt to eliminate the department of labor would meet with overwhelming opposition in the congress. ninth. obvious indications are that the department of labor is   prepared to undertake in full the administration of the unemployment insurance service. testimony by the secretary of labor reveals beyond question that the attitude of the department toward the status of this particular agency of government is very much in doubt. tenth. there is indication that the proposed transfer of these services would be conducive in any way to ecoy in administration. to the contrary. there is evidence that the net cost of administration in such event would actually increase. clearly. this proposed move can be construed as one which should be made in the name of ecoy. there may be some who will dispute the accuracy of these 10 statements of fact as i see them to be. but i believe that these statements are substantially correct. last year i opposed an executive order which would have accomplished the results which are sought in reorganization plan  2. i had felt that this question required further and more intensive study. it seemed to me that the congress should await the recommendations of the hoover commission. i had hoped to be able to support these recommendations wholeheartedly. i have felt that it would be advisable ultimately to place the employment service and the unemployment insurance service in the department of labor. i have hoped that when the time might arrive for making this transfer. the department of labor would be in a position properly to receive these two services and to supervise their functioning. however. as i have stated. we  find that the department of labor. instead of being prepared to receive the unemployment insurance service. contemplates a study of the whole question of unemployment insurance. presumably for the purpose of ascertaining what position the department should take with respect to experience rating and perhaps with regard to the question of the complete federalization of unemployment insurance itself. in other words. the department of labor does  appear to be prepared to assume the responsibility entailed in this proposed transfer. moreover. as i have pointed out. reorganization plan  2 follows only in limited degree the hoover commissions recommendations. in fact. the commissions task force. after careful analysis. appears to have reached final conclusion beyond advising that "judgment must be exercised by the duly elected representatives of the people." furthermore. the senates rejection yesterday of reorganization plan  1 leaves the status of the federal security agency substantially unchanged. and yet. as was indicated during the debate on plan  1 and by action already taken by the senate committee on expenditures in the executive departments with respect to senate bill 2060. there is every indication that the federal security agencys status will be changed in a future year. perhaps relatively near at hand. disapproval of the precise plan submitted by the chief executive does  mean at all that there is general need or desire for reorientation where the welfare and health and education services of our government are concerned. i feel sure that efforts in this direction will continue. and i feel equally sure that they will result finally in appropriate action of the type indicated. in the meantime. because of the continuing status of the federal security agency. and because of the presently apparent uncertainty on the part of those in charge of the department of labor. and because - the attitude of one of the chief parties in interest. the employers. and withal. because question of ecoy is involved. it would seem only sensible and in the best public interest to continue the united states employment service and the unemployment insurance service in their present position in our governmental structure until the controverted issues shall have been satisfactorily resolved. for these reasons. i shall vote in favor of senate resolution 151.
. i present for appropriate reference and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record. following these remarks. the text of a concurrent resolution recently adopted by the new york state legislature memorializing the congress of the united states to exclude members of the retirement systems within the state of new york from pending provisions of the socialsecurity law. the concurrent resolution was referred to the committee on finance. and. under the rule. ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: senate resolution 114 concurrent resolution of the senate and assembly memorializing the congress of the united states to exclude members of retirement systems within the state from pending provisions extending the socialsecurity law whereas there is  pending before the congress of the united states certain legislation to extend the provision. of law. commonly referred to as the socialsecurity law. to include all public employees in the united states including public employees of the various cities and the governmental subdivisions of such states. and whereas in the state of new york pension and retirement systems have been established for many years and are available for membership by every public employee of the state. or its various subdivisions. and whereas under the constitution of the state of nbw york all such public employees. ably policemen. firemen. and publicschool teachers who are members of any such pension or retirement system within the state. enjoy a contractual relationship under which their rights can be diminished or impaired: . therefore. be it resolved (if the assembly concur). that the congress of the united states hereby respectfully is memorialized to exclude from the provisions of such pending legislation members of the police departments. fire departments. publicschool teachers. and all other employees who are presently members of any pension or retirement system administered by the state of new york or any of its governmental subdivisions. and be it further resolved (i the assembly concur). that copies of this resolution be tiansmitted to the secretary of the united states senate. the clerk of the house of representatives. to each united states senator and to each member of the house of representatives elected from the state of new york. by order of the senate.
. i submit for appropriate reference amendments intended to be proposed by me to the bill to provide certain increases in the monthly rates of compensation and pension payable to veterans and their dependents. and for other purposes. and i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks. a very short explanatory statement which i have prepared. concerning the amendments.
. i shall be very brief in what i have to say. it is based on my long legislative experience so long here as it has been in other places. i have been greatly distressed ever since i have been in washington because of the inadequacy of the pension system in respect to our own employees. a great deal has been said during the discussion about joining the regular system to which employees generally belong. i want to point out that from the standpoint of the ordinary legislative employee there is inducement whatever. they have need for special protection of their own. and that. as i understand. is the purpose of the bill  before us. a great deal has been said about legislative employees having a sort of a vacation when the session is over. but  very much has been said about employee6 in this building and in the building across the street from us. the senate offlice building. and. i assume the same applies in the house office building. some of whom work 10. 12. or more hours a day during a session. a job in a legislative body is  a job where the employee punches a time clock. he must work until the job is finished. whether he ever gets to bed or . that is something which is sometimes forgotten in dealing with questions of this kind.
. i think the committee on labor and public welfare also is involved in this matter. from the standpoint of proposed legislation. therefore. i believe the way we are proposing to solve this problem is the proper way.
. in the 84th congress. i introduced a bill to extend the federalstate unemployment insurance program to puerto rico. that bill was referred to the committee on finance. which solicited comment from the interested federal agencies. without exception. those agencies approved the proposed legislation. unemployment insurance is one of the few social security programs  yet extended to puerto rico. the puerto rican legislative assembly has asked that the program be extended to the commonwealth. and has enacted the measures necessary to implement it. puerto rico is plagued by labor surpulses. the longrange solution to this problem is the establishment of more industry in the islanda solution which the government of the commonwealth is working assiduously to achieve. but a more immediate way of alleviating the problem would be a fullscale unemployment insurance program such as is in effect in other parts of the united states. i should like to bring to the attention of the senate a remark made by the secretary of labor in his comment on my bill last year. the lack of sufficient industrial activity in puerto ricohe saidhas led to a largescale migration of workers from the island to the mainland in search of employmeit. this influx has produced serious ecoic consequences in some sections of the united states. i believe a full employment compensation program for puerto rico. as authorized by this bill. would do much to alleviate these problems. this proposed legislation appears to me to be necessary and desirable. therefore. i am reintroducing herewith the bill which i sponsored in the 84th congress. my colleague from new york is joining me in sponsoring this bill. i send the bill to the desk and ask that it be appropriately referred. i ask unanimous consent that a statement in explanation of the bill may be printed at this point in my remarks. together with the text of the bill.
that is one of the things for which the majority leader deserves praise. the miity leader is offering all his amendments in the form of an omnibus bill. i do  believe he has all of the omnibus bill in his amendments. but he has most of it. he has performed a very useful service to us and to the people of the country. because he has spotlighted the necessity of obtaining action on this kind of legislation during this session. i do  believe that we need any pressure put on us from the outside. but i daresay that congress as a whole may need a little. this action may bring it about. otherwise. there may  be any legislation. far be it from me to criticize the other body. but the story has gone outand i do  k how correct it is. but i mention it for what it is worththat it is  expected that the house will take any action on labor legislation at this session. i hope that is  true. i hope there are egh members of the house to keep it from being true. at any rate. we are approaching this problem step by step. we  have before us for consideration pension and welfare legislation. that embodies one of the recommendations of the mcclellan committee. that is the first step. we are disposing of it. we have been working on it for 4 years. in may it will be 5 years. it is high time we got some action on it. let us dispose of it. and take up the other subjects as rapidly as possible. we need only one bill. an omnibus bill or a simple bill. any senator who wishes to offer amendments can offer them when such a bill is before us.
ial election year. precluded consideration of needed changes in the act. again in 1949. many constructive amendments. including a number offered by the late great senator taft. were considered by the senate. but these amendments were defeated. despite the fact that many would have been beneficial to organized labor. in 1953. the present administration recommended to the congress a sound and constructive labormanagement program. the senate committee on labor and public welfare favorably reported to the senate an excellent bill. but. as all of us k. this bill was recommitted. in summary. major legislation in the field of labormanagement relations has been enacted in 11 yearsalthough vitally needed. i suspect that if such legislation as i have suggested had been enacted. the shocking evidence compiled by the mcclellan committee would never have existed. in 1956. the blinding of victor rieselbecause of his disclosures of the infiltration of criminal elements into the field of labormanagement relationsshocked the nation. following this dastardly act. i submitted a senate resolution calling upon the senate committee on labor and public welfare to investigate improper activities in the field of labormanagement relations. simultaneously. and unkn to me at the time. the permanent subcommittee in investigations of the senate committee on government operations was already compiling evidence of such improper activities. this evidence was brought to the subcommittees attention through its investigation of certain government contracts. in consequence. in january of 1957. the senator from arkansas . myself. and others urged the creation of the present select committee to investigate improper activities in labormanagement relations. the work of this committee under the guidance of the senator from arkansas . with the able assistance of the chief counsel and his staff. has resulted in a longneeded housecleaning by organized labor as well as by management. in its interim report. the select committee recommended legislation in five specific areas. the provisions of s. 3974 carry out the legislative recommendations contained in the interim report. clearer proof of this statement can be shown than the fact that the very distinguished chairman of the select committee has endorsed and supported the provisions of s. 3974. i fully agree with an editorial endorsing this legislation contained in the washington evening star dated tuesday. june 10. which in part reads as follows: approval of this body (senate) would amount to an endorsement of a fine work of its two committees (the senate committee on labor and public welfare and the select committee on improper activities in the labor or management field). as well as a step toward constructive lawmaking. this bill was drafted by the staff of the senate committee on labor and public welfare in consultation with the senator from massachusettes . representatives of the secretary of labor. and myself. therefore. i am keenly disappointed to see what appear to be partisan political influences inject themselves into its consideration. in view of the bipartisan efforts which went into drafting s. 3974. i was most startled to learn of secretary mitchells apparent opposition to its provisions. i personally consider most of the statements on this subject. which have been attributed to him while he is in geneva. to be wholly uncalled for. insofar as his criticism is constructive. both the senator from massachusetts [mr. kennedyj and i agree that the secretary should be granted the right to hold hearings and should be given subpena powers in order to enforce the filing provisions contained in the bill. moreover. i see objection to requiring that the summaries of the extensive reports required under the provisions of the act be made available to union members. in most other respects. i personally believe the comments of the department of labor are without merit. for example. i am advised that the same study used by the department of labor. which stated that 60 percent of the local unions in california would be exempt under the provisions of this act. also disclosed that 93 percent of all union members would be covered. but the labor department cited only the 60 percent figurea most misleading omission of the significant figure of 93 percent coverage. furthermore. the secretary is specifically authorized to deny any exemptions. if. in his wisdom. he believes it is important to do so. thus the coverage could be raised all the way to 100 percent. the only reasons the exemption provision is contained in the billthese are the only reasons i k of. anywayare to relieve small local unions from the costs and administrative problems involved in filing the extensive reports which would be required. and also to keep the departments administrative expense at as low a figure as may be warranted. i am  at all satisfied with the language of the bill dealing with this subject. which appears on page 7 of the bill. section 101 (c) of title i. that subsection reads as follows: (c) labor organizations having fewer than 200 members and gross annual receipts of less than $25.000. including all sums paid over as dues or per capita tax to a parent or affiliated labor organization (excluding payments received by trustees under sec. 302 (c) (5) or (6) of the labormanagement relations act. 1947. as amended) shall be exempt from the provisions of this section: provided. that the secretary may revoke the exemption of any labor organization with respect to which he determines. after such investigation as he deems proper. that the purposes of this section would be served thereby. i have been advised that section as written invites litigation if it is enacted. in other words. it should be made positive. and should  remain in the form it is written. with the proviso offsetting the exemption of small local unions. so i offer  the amendment which i send to the desk as a substitute for subsection (c). and i ask the clerk to read it.
. as i stated earlier. the bill was reported by the committee on labor and public welfare by a vote of 12 to 1. i heartily congratulate my able colleague. the junior senator from arizona . for his customary forthrightness in opposing s. 3974. and for his annced intention to offer a substitute bill. although i  understand that he does  intend to offer it. is that correct.
that is where the senator and i differ completely. i believe we must bring this matter to a head by forcing the board to take some action. i was  at all satisfied. in the hearings before the committee on appropriations and the committee on labor and public welfare with the answers given by members of the board. including the chairman and counsel. to the questions concerning this matter. the senator from utah and i fundamentally agree absolutely on this question. the senator from utah and i have introduced almost identical bills dealing with this subject.
. i join with the able junior senator from massachusetts in urging that the .senate accept s. 2888 as reported by the house and senate conferees to the respective houses of the congress. i am disappointed that the 85th congress is unable to enact more meaningful legislation affecting the rights and privileges of approximately 85 million americans for whom pension and welfare plans have been established. three successive subcommittees of the senate committee on labor and public welfare over a period of 4 years have compiled literally thousands of pages of testimony concerning the need for effective legislation in this field. the laborious efforts of these consecutive subcommittees resulted in s. 2888. and it passed the united states senate by a vote of 88 to 0. it is indeed unfortunate that the house of representatives is unwilling to accept the important findings and recommendations compiled by the senate committee on labor and public welfare. however. the legislation before us is slightly more than an .empty gesture. it is at least a stepeven though a creep in the right direction. i believe that this bill. when enacted. can be helpful to the beneficiaries and their families. therefore. i urge that s. 2888. as it  appears before us. be approved by the united states senate.
. i wish to go on record in support of the conference report on h.r. 4690. which includes a 10percent acrosstheboard rise in social security benefits. retroactive to january 1. 1971. i regret that i missed the vote on this important issue. due to my attendance in new york city of the funeral of mr. whitney young. jr.. executive director of the national urban league. had i been here 30 minutes earlier. i would of course have voted "aye." i might add that i find it .shocking that the house today lacked the courtesy to await the completion of funeral services prior to taking up legislation. such hasty and impulsive procedure strikes me as a sign of the insensitivity of this body to the death of a fine and great american. indeed. it will  reassure the poorirrespective of color indeed black americans. for all of whom whitney young gave his life. i have long supported a crosstheboard rise in social security benefits. however. let me at this time express my strong disappointment over the failure of the house conferees to rectify some of the inadequacies of our present system. i strongly commend the senate for increasing the earnings limitation to $2.400 annually from the present $1.680. i have in the past advocated complete removal of this income limitation. as i believe that social security benefits should be treated as the end result of a bought and paid for retirement programtotally independent of present efforts to supplement it and  as something to be taken away as punishment for still wishing to be a productive member of society. the $1.200 per year minimum in benefits for an individual and $1.800 for a couple. approved by the senate but rejected by the conference conmittee. would  have even brought affected senior citizens up to the current official poverty levels of $1.840 per individual and $2.383 per couple per year. the right of an individual to confidently look forward to living out his retirement years in reasonable ecoic comfort should be a paramount goal of our society. and i urge that in the future we face the ecoic plight of many of our senior citizens. and act accordingly.
. i rise in support of title iv. the welfare reform plan. my strong reservations over many provisions in this proposal are overcome by my conviction that we must keep the door open and allow the process of consideration of this vital issue to be continued. i support the concept in this bill which establishes federal responsibility for welfare and establishes a uniform national standard. i support the concept of authorizing benefits to the working poor as well as to the unemployed on a national basis. and i support the effort to extend the daycare benefits to the children of welfare mothers. however. i am genuinely and deeply concerned over the failure of the committee to protect the rights of welfare recipients. specifically. i strongly oppose the following provisions: the absence of any requirement that states supplement the federal grants threatens that some welfare recipients may be worse off under this bill than under the present system. although the bill does take the states off the welfare escalator to some degree. since the federal government will pay for the additional caseload. the need for financial relief for states which have in the past made the greatest effort on behalf of the poor. such as new york. is  recognized. the income level of $2.400 for a family of four. paired with the eligibility of welfare recipients for food stamps. and the lack of a provision accounting for costofliving increases. is far below the official poverty level. let alone what would be necessary for a family of four to live decently. the "family maximum" in the bill means that a family of 12 will get more benefits than a family of eight. the stringent work requirements mean that in many cases mothers with preschool children will be forced to accept any job offered them. this should be amended so that mothers would have to accept only "suitable" employment. under suitable circumstances. if appropriate daycare centers were available. insufficient funds for day care. a total of about $750.000.000 to make 875.000 slots. thus an average of about $860 per child could mean that daycare facilities will be little more than custodial facilities. in reality. we need to provide 5 million slots. at a cost of about $2.000 per child. hopefully our child development. bill. which has just been reported from our select subcommittee on education to the full education and labor committee will encourage the development of standards and the provision of services which are comprehensive and  merely custodial. the lack of job protection in the bill and the requirement that welfare recipients accept jobs at threefourths the minimum wage. as if they were only threefourths human. threatens to harass welfare recipients and deny them the rights of any citizen of this nation. in sum. however. i look on this bill as a mechanism which will open the door to welfare reform. if it is  reform itself. we in the house must remember that this congress is bicameral. although i agree with many who believe that this bill is distasteful and regressive. possibly even repressive. if we kill it. the senate. for all practical purposes. will be unable to act. and any welfare reform bill will be stalled for an undetermined time. on the other hand. if we pass it. there is a real chance that the other body will significantly improve it. and that the welfare system will then have made at least a few steps forward out of its present evergrowing quagmire. if. however. the senate is unable to improve the bill. and the specific provisions i mentioned. or if the conference committee comes back to the house with a bill which is basically equivalent to the one we are considering today. i will have serious reservations about voting for passage of the conference report. on a different subject. regarding the social security provisions of h.r. 1. i was pleased that the ways and means committee decided to include a 5 percent increase in benefits. effective july 1. 1972. and to help ease the ecoic squeeze on our senior citizens by authorizing automatic costofliving increases. provided the consumer price index climbs by at least 3 percent and increase was enacted by congress the previous year. h.r. 1 would also provide proportional increases in the amount of allowable earned income while receiving benefits. this bill will also entitle a widow or widower to 100 percent of the deceased spouses benefit. instead of the current 821/2 percent. reduce the waiting period for disability payments from 6 months to 5. and allow working married couples the option of having their retirement benefits computed on the basis of their combined earnings if it will result in a higher benefit. many of my constituents have contacted me to express strong frustration over the fact that social security contributions are taken out of their salary if they continue to work full time after age 65. yet in effect they are ineligible for the benefits they are paying for. this inequity has been recognized. in part. in h.r. 1 by allowing an increase in benefits for those who delay retirement beyond age 65. as an exampleall other considerations asidea man who elects to  collect benefits until age 72 will receive a 7 percent higher benefit than he would have at age 65. under our present social security law. and since the inception of the program. women have had a distinct advantage over men in determining average earnings to base benefits on. years up to 65 are taken into account in determining average earnings for men. while for women only years up to age 62 apply. this obvious discrimination will be remedied by the bill before us today. by applying the same rules to men as  apply to women. although i feel h.r. 1 is a strong step forward in correcting many of the inadequacies and iniquities of the social security law. there is one aspect in which i feel we have failed to make our social security system receptive to the needs of those enrolled. this is in only granting a $320 per year increase in the amount of allowable outside incomefrom $1.680 to $2.000. this figure is unrealistic and in my opinion acts as a punishment to those still wishing to be a productive member of society. i have introduced legislation to completely remove this income limitation. as i believe that social security benefits should be treated as the end result of a boughtandpaidfor retirement program. i am hopeful that the senate will again express its rejection of this figure. as it did last march. by amending h.r. 1 to increase the outside income limitation to a minimum of $2.400.
 iged more than 3 years of painstaking work by congress. he rebuffed the broadest coalition ever formed behind social legislation. he rejected the counsel of experts in every related discipline. including members of his own administration. he may have dealt a fatal blow to his muchtouted welfare reform program. most serious of all. he dealt a cruel blow to the nations working mothers and their children. we are determined that narrow partisan considerations will  be allowed to block this logical and indispensable extension of our public education system or to deny american women and children this program which is their right. i am pleased to be able to annce that we are already welladvanced in the effort to rebuild the day care coalition that proved so successful in the past. the measure that i am sponsoring today has already won the support of the aflcio. the united auto workers. the child welfare league of america. the washington research project and the day care council of westchester. the cornerstones of the original coalition. i ask unanimous consent to enter copies of the letters and telegrams of support in the record immediately following my remarks. as the senate has already acted on a  too dissimilar measure. we are seeking the broadest bipartisan support in the hope that a measure may .be brought to conference before adjournment. the quality day care and early childhood development program has been the subject of one of the most virulent and scurrilous attacks in my experience.  unlike the attacks that were launched against such social programs as social security and medicare. without going into too much detail. let me take this opportunity to set the record straight on what the program does and does  propose to do. first. it has been charged that day care facilities are sort of an unamerican plot to undermine family relationships and wean children from their parents. hing could be further from the truth. the program is an effort to strengthen family bonds and parental authority. it does this  only by relieving a source of grave anxiety for working parents as to the care their children are receiving during the day. but also by requiring that parents be intimately involved in day care and education programs at every level from policy to implementation. second. it has been charged that the program is unnecessary and will encourage mothers to take jobs outside the home. when. in the opinion of the opponents. the womans place is in the kitchen. this is both untrue and a grave disservice to american women. the growing number of women who want to. and need to. work. either to support their families or satisfy the need for greater selffulfillment. has made it imperative that we create quality. day care facilities. the only alternative for millions of middle- and lowerincome families who can afford existing facilities is either  to work. and thus suffer poverty or join welfare rolls. or to leave children in informal care or alone with care at all. let me briefly list some of the major things this legislation will do. it will create facilities to provide quality day care and early childhood education for more than 1 million children of middle- and lowerincome families. it will provide for extensive parent involvement at all levels. it establishes modest fee schedules according to the familys ability to pay. it provides a wide variety of familystrengthening programs and services such as inhome care that will enable parents to choose the services that meet their own and their childrens needs. finally. it authorizes expenditures of $150 million for the first year to set up the program and a total of $2 billion thereafter to run it. i have prepared the following list of the highlights of my bill for the inf ormation of my colleagues:
. it is with reluctance that i will vote today for final passage of h.r. 69. the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1974. including a new formula for title i programs. the formula in this. bill would decrease those funds allotted to new york by over $50 million by next yearand would further decrease the funds the next 2 years. in 1 year alone. over 63.000 educationally deprived children in new york state presently being aided by esea programs would become ineligible. many more would become ineligible in years to come. i simply can in conscience toss these children to the wind. and hope that somehow. some way. they will receive an education. the committee formula provides for the distribution of funds under esea based on the number of children within the school district who are from families considered poor according to the socalled orshansky definition of poverty. in addition. twothirds of those children from families receiving an income from the afdc programaid to families with dependent childrenin excess of the orshansky poverty level would be included. h.r. 69 further provides that the number of children would be multiplied by 40 percent of the average per pupil expenditure in the state. with a floor of 80 percent of the national average expenditure and a ceiling of 120 percent. the problem with this formula is that the orshansky poverty index is based primarily on family food expenditures. and discriminates against metropolitan areas. using food alone. as orshansky does. to determine poverty. neglects the important consideration of housing costs. transportation costs. medical care or income taxes. in short. it lacks a costofliving differentiation. and does  take into account rural/urban differences or suburban/central city differences. in addition. the formula works against those states who have been in the forefront of providing educational services for the poor. due to the 80- to 120percent limitation. allocations are in effect reduced by the ceiling. since the nys perpupil expenditure is more than 120 percent than the national average. finally. by the bills failing to count 100 percent of the afdc recipients over the poverty leveland counting only twothirds of those recipientsstates like new york who have high afdc payments are again hurt. and needy children again lose their benefits. i voted for the amendment. offered by
 walter p. reuther ed: with the tremendous expansion of private pension plans in america and their development as a flexible and significant secondary source of retirement income. the security of the pension promise which they represent to millions of wage earners has clearly become a matter of vital public concern. secretary of labor w. willard wirtz has also recognized the need for federal support of private pension plans. with respect to the scope of pension plan coverage. mr. wirtz has stated before the senate finance committee thatthis is a matter of personal financial security for millions of individuals. annual benefit payments from their plans  total some three billionsto almost three million beneficiaries. by 1980. coverage of these plans is expected to increase from the approximately 25 million employees  covered to about 42 million over the same period. the present $85 billion held in these funds will probably grow to $225 billion. these facts make it plain that the nation. as a whole. has a major stake in the private retirement system. lending federal support to the pension plan system by the administration of a revolving reinsurance financing program would mean that financial security for those workers when they really need it most would be a reality.  an illusory promise. i hope that my colleagues will give this measure their enthusiastic attention and support. the bill follows: h.r. 17590 a bill to establish a selfsupporting fed eral reinsurance program to protect employees in the enjoyment of certain rights under private pension plans be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
. if you want to keep the exemption for university professors who are tenured and executives whose pension is over $20.000.  counting social security. then you vote "yea" on the chafee amendment and you vote "nay" on cranston. is that  correct. i just want to be very positive here.
. this is a vote on the cranston amendment. if you vote "aye." you eliminate all exemptions from the bill. if you vote "nay." the bill uasses with two exemptions: tenured university professors can be retired for age at 65. although they do  have to be. executives whose pension is $20.000 or more counting social security--can be retired for age at 65. but they do  have to be. furthermore. if state law provides otherwise. such as in california. which says you can retire university professors until age 70. that would provide. so. if you want to see the universities have a chance to retire their tenured professors at the age of 65. then you vote "nay." and corporations retire executives at $20.000 pensionif you want that. you vote "nay" to the cranston amendment. if you want exemptions. you vote "aye."
madam president. i do  k how this affects us at home. i never heard of this bill before. maybe it has been at the desk since june 29. or whenever it was. but it seems odd to me for people to take pensions based on things other than their salaries. in other words. it is a fashion of permitting patrolmen to take pension benefits by counting something as salary that in fact was  salary. it seems like a funny way of doing business.
i want to make certain that the amendment presented by the senator from new jersey dealing with the pension offset and the revision thereto is  standing. that it is  enacted. that it has  been vitiated by the amendment of the senator from hawaii. is that correct.
. i expect to begin hearings on this highly important legislation in march. already. the house labormanagement subcommittee has conducted 2 days of hearings this sesston. perisa and the goal of restoring health to the nations public employee pension funds has been given top priority by such distinguished organizations as the service employees international union. the national education association. the aflcio public employee department and. as i have indicated. the american federation of state. county and municipal employees. the legislation i propose mandates added financial burdens on state and local governments. such as requiring certain funding levels be met. that is clearly a decision to be made at the local level. my bill simply requires that the financial condition of these funds be systematically reviewed and the information be made available to the public on a regular basis. it further requires that those who have management or administrative responsibility for public pension funds meet the same. widely accepted standards of conduct currently expected of private pension fiduciaries. perisa is .  should it be. a partisan issue. it is sponsored in the house by ranking members on both sides of the aisle. it should be supported by republicans and democrats and by conservatives and liberals alike. because it clearly is in the best interest of state and local governments. their employees and the public at large. i urge my colleagues to join me in seeing this legislation through the senate this year.* by mr. levin (for himself. mr. dodd. mr. riegle. mr. weicker. and mr. randolph):
well. . i think again that is very clear. that is very clear in all law that someone recelving a pension is  an employee. he is entitled to that pension whether he shows up for work or . he is  even expected to show up for work. so there is question. i do  think there is any serious question whether a pensioner is an employee of a firm. company. the u.s. government. or whatever it might be.
i understand that. let us turn to the second amendment. the socalled fallback amendment. if i might. i would describe this as the wsrb. the wealthy senators relief bill. this amendment provides. as i understand it. that those senators who choose to forgo the higher salary currently in effect in the house can then continue to receive unlimited hoaria. this is really a splendid amendment for those who are wealthy. this is the best of all worlds. the wealthy person does hing and gets the higher pay. but consider this: that same person goes on for the rest of his other life with the higher pension which is based on the higher pay. this is a winner all the way around for the rich person.
. i am proud to join senators dole. packwood. and dunenberger as a cosponsor of the retirement equity act of 1983. which represents a beginning step toward greater pension equity for women. as chairman of the subcommittee on savings. pensions. and investment policy. i think that this bill will significantly improve the chances that women will receive benefits under pension plans. without imposing undue burdens on pension plan administrators or employers. pension equity for women is  a simple issue because the pension needs of women are so diverse. although 53 percent of all women are in the work force. most pension plans do  meet their needs. there are many reasons for this. women still earn an average of only 59 cents for every dollar the average man earns. women are often clustered ixm occupations or companies that are less likely to provide pension coverage. in 1979. for example. only 40 percent of women working full time in private industry were covered by a pension plan. women often have shorter job tenure than men. and they are more likely to leave their jobs to raise children or take on other traditional family responsibilities. this bill makes a number of changes in existing pension law which should improve the chances for women to have access to adequate pension benefits. for example. the bill lowers the age at which service for an employer must be taken into account for pension coverage. in 1978. women in the 2024 age bracket had the highest labor force participation rate among wornen68.3 percent projected to increase to 76.8 percent in 1985. yet. current law does  require an employer to count service prior to age 25 for purposes of participation in a pension plan. this bill would require the employer to count service at age 21 for purposes of participation. and would require the employer to count service from age 18 (instead of 22) for purposes of vesting. the bill also provides that anyone leaving the service of an employer for fewer than 5 years can return to work and  lose credit for the prior service. in addition to provisions designed to meet the needs of women working outside the home. the bill also contains a number of changes for women who continue to work in the home and are dependent upon the pension benefits of a spouse. if the pension plan provides for an annuity. it must be in the form of a joint and survivor annuity. and if a participant elects otherwise. he (or she) will have to obtain the consent of the participant spouse. there will also be required spousal survivor coverage for all plan participants who attain age 45 and have 10 years of service. finally. the bill clarifies the status of pension benefits in divorce settlements so that pension benefits can be clearly subject to a property settlement or court order in a divorce. these clarifications assure that the antiassignment rules of erisa. which were designed to protect the participants from creditors. do  shield them from their family responsibilities. in conclusion. i would simply say that while this bill does  cure all the problems of pension equity for women. it is an important first step. i remain committed to advancing the ecoic and pension equity of women in our society as they participate both in the workplace and at home . and i encourage my colleagues to join with me in this commitment by supporting this bill.
i understand that. let us turn to the second amendment. the socalled fallback amendment. if i might. i would describe this as the wsrb. the wealthy senators relief bill. this amendment provides. as i understand it. that those senators who choose to forgo the higher salary currently in effect in the house can then continue to receive unlimited hoaria. this is really a splendid amendment for those who are wealthy. this is the best of all worlds. the wealthy person does hing and gets the higher pay. but consider this: that same person goes on for the rest of his other life with the higher pension which is based on the higher pay. this is a winner all the way around for the rich person.
. i am proud to join senators dole. packwood. and dunenberger as a cosponsor of the retirement equity act of 1983. which represents a beginning step toward greater pension equity for women. as chairman of the subcommittee on savings. pensions. and investment policy. i think that this bill will significantly improve the chances that women will receive benefits under pension plans. without imposing undue burdens on pension plan administrators or employers. pension equity for women is  a simple issue because the pension needs of women are so diverse. although 53 percent of all women are in the work force. most pension plans do  meet their needs. there are many reasons for this. women still earn an average of only 59 cents for every dollar the average man earns. women are often clustered ixm occupations or companies that are less likely to provide pension coverage. in 1979. for example. only 40 percent of women working full time in private industry were covered by a pension plan. women often have shorter job tenure than men. and they are more likely to leave their jobs to raise children or take on other traditional family responsibilities. this bill makes a number of changes in existing pension law which should improve the chances for women to have access to adequate pension benefits. for example. the bill lowers the age at which service for an employer must be taken into account for pension coverage. in 1978. women in the 2024 age bracket had the highest labor force participation rate among wornen68.3 percent projected to increase to 76.8 percent in 1985. yet. current law does  require an employer to count service prior to age 25 for purposes of participation in a pension plan. this bill would require the employer to count service at age 21 for purposes of participation. and would require the employer to count service from age 18 (instead of 22) for purposes of vesting. the bill also provides that anyone leaving the service of an employer for fewer than 5 years can return to work and  lose credit for the prior service. in addition to provisions designed to meet the needs of women working outside the home. the bill also contains a number of changes for women who continue to work in the home and are dependent upon the pension benefits of a spouse. if the pension plan provides for an annuity. it must be in the form of a joint and survivor annuity. and if a participant elects otherwise. he (or she) will have to obtain the consent of the participant spouse. there will also be required spousal survivor coverage for all plan participants who attain age 45 and have 10 years of service. finally. the bill clarifies the status of pension benefits in divorce settlements so that pension benefits can be clearly subject to a property settlement or court order in a divorce. these clarifications assure that the antiassignment rules of erisa. which were designed to protect the participants from creditors. do  shield them from their family responsibilities. in conclusion. i would simply say that while this bill does  cure all the problems of pension equity for women. it is an important first step. i remain committed to advancing the ecoic and pension equity of women in our society as they participate both in the workplace and at home . and i encourage my colleagues to join with me in this commitment by supporting this bill.
my great concern in connection with the minimum wage is. if it does  include some kind of a "training period" or "opportunity period." whatever you call it. that on the one hand. we are demanding folks on welfare get off and all of us have supported here provisions that require these people to be off welfare. whether it is in 2 years. 5 years or whatever it is. fifty percent must be off in a certain length of time. where are they going to get jobs. who is going to hire them. so i strongly support some kind of a. period--call it a training wage. or an opportunity wage. i do  think it should be restricted to those 19 years of age or younger. this is a very serious problem we have because we can deal with welfare reform without considering what is happening under the minimum wage. i ice that. the senator from kansas is here. so i will-
. yesterday. i voted for legislation to increase the minimum wage from $4.25 to $5.15 per hour over the next 2 years. though this is a necessary increase. regrettably. senators did  have a chance to vote for an ideal package. first. it is essential that employers be given adequate time to prepare to implement the proposed increase. for this reason. i voted for the bond amendment. though i felt delaying the increase to january 1. 1997. was too long. in my view. a reasonable effective date for the increase would have been as passed by the senate. h.r. 3448 would be effective retroactively to july 1. 1996. leaving employers with adjustment period. this is unfortunate. in my view. second. i also believe a training wage is crucial for those entering the work force. particularly given our efforts to reform the welfare system. while many of my colleagues contend that increasing the minimum wage will encourage welfare recipients to obtain gainful employment. i am afraid the increase s7514 co will actually reduce the availability of new positions. congress has spent the better part of 2 years developing and refining welfare reform legislation. all of the major bills include tough work participation programs. and most would require the states to have 50 percent of their welfare recipients off of the rolls in the next 6 years. even if aher 15 to 20 percent are granted hardship exceptions. the states will still be hard pressed to find egh jobs to meet the strict work requirements imposed by this legislation. in my state of rhode island. approximately 20.000 families are  on public assistance. if 20 percent of these families are exempt from the work requirement. that leaves 16.000 families who must find their way off of welfare in the next 6 years. even if rhode island must find jobs for only half of these families. we are talking about 8.000 entrylevel jobs. given the stagnant ecoy within my state. that could prove a very difficult requirement to meet. despite the fact that these new workers will undergo intensive job training and must also learn important life skills. such as being punctual for work. most former welfare recipients will qualify for more than entrylevel positions. while there may be a few exceptions. most will have to prove themselves before they will be given greater opportunities in the workplace. to retain some incentive for employers to hire and train welfare recipients. i believe a strong and effective training wage at the current minimum of $4.25 per hour should be included in h.r. despite my concern that the bond amendment contained a 6month training wage. which in my view is too long. i voted for it. in contrast. the kennedy alternative would have provided only a 30day training wage. limited to those under 20 years of age. this provision would  have given employers the needed incentive to take a chance on hiring a welfare recil ilnt. as passed by the senate. the training wage included in h.r. 3448 has a duration of 3 months. but unfortunately is limited to those under 20 years old. i would have preferred age limitation on the provision to ensure its full utility in moving people -from welfare to work. third. in my view. small businesses should have some form of exemption from the minimum wage increases proposed in h.r. 3448. very few employers who own small businesses qualify for the current exemption. which is flawed and unworkable. for this reason. i voted for the bond amendment. this amendment would have enabled employers with gross incomes of less than $500.000 to continue paying the current minimum wage of $4.25 per hour. while larger businesses would have been required to comply with the increase. regrettably. as approved by the senate. the final version of h.r. 3448 con-
. i would just like to take this opportunity to compliment the distinguished senator from new york for his work on this measure. this pension reform is  something that has been spurofthemoment legislation by the distinguished senior senator from new york. this is a lifetime work covering an area of great need. it meaningfully fills a rather large gap in the lives of so many people. so many individuals have been hurt over the years because of our failure to safeguard their lifes work. their pensions. it is only fitting that senator javits work in this area be recognized. i feel he has accomplished a great thing for the entire nation in sticking to this problem and arriving at the solution we  have before us and which hopefully will become the law of the land.
. there is a technical error in paragraph (d) (2) on page 5 of amendment  1545. the paragraph should read as follows: (2) as a minimum. the standards of eligibility shall provide that any household is eligible if total income of such household is less than 125 percent of the poverty level for the calendar year. i ask unanimous consent to modify my amendment to make that technical change.
. i recommend the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis be acclpted. what this. in effect. does is to restore the fact that those states that care to hire permanent employees in the unemployment insurance staff may do so. it is  mandatory. in case of those states that feel more comfortable with temporary employment in this area they may. the experience of the state of illis. as articulated by its distinguished senator. senator dixon. is that the permanent staff is preferable. apparently. this has run afoul of the administration that just prefers temporary staff. apparently the job is  accomplished as well with temporary staff as permanent staff. i think the amendment makes sense. it is discretionary to the state whatever particular system works in their best interest. i thoroughly approve and accept the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis.
. i recommend the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis be acclpted. what this. in effect. does is to restore the fact that those states that care to hire permanent employees in the unemployment insurance staff may do so. it is  mandatory. in case of those states that feel more comfortable with temporary employment in this area they may. the experience of the state of illis. as articulated by its distinguished senator. senator dixon. is that the permanent staff is preferable. apparently. this has run afoul of the administration that just prefers temporary staff. apparently the job is  accomplished as well with temporary staff as permanent staff. i think the amendment makes sense. it is discretionary to the state whatever particular system works in their best interest. i thoroughly approve and accept the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis.
. one of the most tragic events that can occur in the life of any man is the loss of his job. work gives meaning to life. it is a source of sustenance and pride. it is the means by which a man contributes to the society of which he is a part. and earns for himself and his family the right to enjoy that societys riches. in the words of a lebanese philosopher: work is love made visible. in the counterpoint view of a french philosopher: work keeps at bay three great evils: boredom. vice. and need. it thus becomes a matter of particular concern when large numbers of a countrys people are unemployed. for the people without a job. it means many weeks and months of anxious searching. amid declining hope. it means increasing family tensions and a decreasing sense of worth. it means the loss of opportunity. even a decline in acquired skills. but the loss does  belong to the individual and his family alone. there is a loss to the community which longer enjoys the benefits of his skills or his purchasing power. there is a loss to the country. which may bear the cost of his support while suffering the loss of his contribution to the welfare of the whole. six percent of the american work force may be unemployed. but 100 percent of america suffers the consequences. the human costs of unemployment were recently detailed most vividly in an article entitled "the breaking point." published in the wall street journal. the writer. liz roman gallese. based the article on a series of interviews conducted with unemployed scientists and engineers in and around boston. mass. the breakup of families. the breakdown of morale. the tragic consequences of a life without workthese are the subject of her study. they should be the subject of all our thoughts and efforts as well. i ask unanimous consent that this outstanding article be printed in the record.
. we are  talking about welfare recipients. we are talking about people who have worked all of their lives and put aside some little portion of their income as savings in the hope that as they got older they would be able to enjoy some of the necessities of life. they had idea that we could be in a period of inflation. as we are at present. what has happened is that as prices have increased. the cost of food. rent. clothing. and other things has escalated. while at the same time the value of a dollar has gone down. so the people who are most affected by this are those who are living on fixed incomes. mainly social security. pensions. and the rest. so we in congress recognized that we did  have any way to provide a builtin costoflivng increase. so we finally came up with a 20percent increase in social security. these people had every reason to believe that if they got a 20percent increase in social secirity. it would mean that they would have a little more money to pay for the increase in rent. food. clothing. and the other things. these people never really get the luxuries of life. because they have precious few. if any. luxuries of life. they are barely living. we come along and say. "all right. we will give you a 20percent increase in social security. however. at the same time we will increase your rent and cut back on the other benefits that you can possibly get." as has been well pointed out time and time again. this results in a net loss rather than in any increase. i am sure that when the junior senator from minnesota suggested that he was even thinking of an amendment which would give them an opportunity to accept or reject the 20percent increase. he thought it would be a good suggestion. because at least those who would lose by virtue of receiving a 20percent increase could reject it. that suggestion was  facetious at all. it makes a lot of sense. unless we correct these inequities. we are compounding the problem for the very people that we have been trying to help by the 20percent increase. is that  basically what this is about. more. and less.
. i have read the senators amendment and i think i understand what the senator is trying to accomplish. i had hoped that the senator from maryland would have accepted the assurance of the ranking republican member of the labor and public welfare committee that his committee would hold hearings on the senators amendment. as i read the amendment. i think it goes much further than the senator had intended. i see very little difference between the senators amendment and the amendment that was introduced by the distinguished senator from th carolina . i think that the same results would flow from the senators amendment as would flow from the amendment of the senator from th carolina. which was just rejected by the senate by a vote of 43 to 36. i would hope that we could establish sufficient legislative history in this colloquy on the floor. which the senator started earlier with the senator from new york. and in which i hope we might engage further. to accomplish the purpose of the senator from maryland. i have in my hand a letter which was written to the gover of maryland by peter e. holmes. director of the office of civil rights. pertaining to this same subject. i k that this has been a very heated issue in the state of maryland and in this particular committee. and i k the senator is justifiably concerned about it. certainly. i would  want to see any harassment. i do  k that the senator has used that term.
i think that in itself is the effect by reducing the penalty that can be charged. that is a substantive change. i do  think that the committee on labor and public welfare has had any hearings at all on this particular subject as to what effect that would have. it would appear to me that that is a substantive change and  a procedural change. if that. in fact. is what the distinguished senator from louisiana is arguing. that this is in substance a procedural change. i think it is certainly substantive. if it reduces the penalty to practically penalty at all. as i have saidi do  intend to repeat itit certainly would be incentive for these employers to make their employment establishment safe for employees. they just would  do it they would  have to do it. as the senator from louisiana ks. we have in numbers practically an insignificant staff as it is.
we can change the law. our committee can change the law. this bill can change the law. the proper place to change the law. and the distinguished chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare is on the floor at the present time. that is where it should be changed. if there is a necessity.
of course. it would be good if new york city could balance its budget in 1977. it would be better if it could balance it in 1976. but the fact remains that if they are going to operate on an unbalanced budget. it will be on pension funds.  federal funds. so it will  really hurt the federal government. if the pension funds want to lend new york city the money to operate on an unbalanced budget. why should the federal government be concerned about it. it is  going to be our money. we 38788 (j are going to get our money at the end of the year anyway. and we will get interest on our money. i do  see any real danger in new york city waiting until 1978. which is really the first practical time. to balance their budget. according to the best estimate and the best evidence we have been able to obtain.
while the senator is looking at it. let me say that i carry brief for those pension funds. i do  think we should have a 20year pension plan. i believe that employees who benefit from the pension fund should contribute as well. but we have to deal with realities. we are dealing with contractual rights between individuals and the city of new york. what we are trying to do here. by this legislation. is to give new york city an opportunity. without going into bankruptcy. to pay off its debts. to extend some of its debts. to get to a balanced budget situation in 1978. and at the same time pay back the federal government with interest on money we shall lend. this is much better than what new york city asked us for in the first instance. the loan guarantees are out. the $7 billion is out. even the $4 billion that we came in with from the banking committee is out. we are talking about a shortterm. selfliquidating loan of  to exceed $2.3 billion. which will be repaid at approximately 8 percent interest to the federal government. -that is all that is being asked for in this bill. in order to get that. the city of new york. the state of new york. the banking community. and. yes. even the labor unions. have been working as hard as they can. i believe we have exacted all that reasonably can be expected of that city and of that state and of that community.
. i offer this amendment to the food stamp section of s. 275. it is a simple amendment which i believe would rectify a potentially unfair provision of the bill. i hope the distinguished chairman and ranking miity member of the agriculture committee will accept my amendment. section 5 of the bills food stamp title defines the term "income" so as to exclude certain items which either represent real gain to the household or are simply too difficult to compute. however. there is one exclusion which omits one group as worthy as that analogous group which is included in the exclusion. although the income  included in the exclusion is very mi. the hardship inflicted on the individuals involved will be very harsh. if what i believe is the intent of this income exclusion is  carried out. my amendment attempts to complete the intent of the income exclusion. subsection 4(d) of the income exclusion section of the food stamp title excludes. among other things "reimbursements to volunteers which do  exceed expenses actually incurred and which do  represent a gain or benefit to the household * * *" the point of this section is simply  to penalize a person who volunteers to undertake some public service taskfor example. those who help drive elderly people to food stores and get reimbursed for their gas costs. or seniors who might work with actions rsvp program. since the money they received is just to reimburse them for the expenses they already paid. there is reason to count it as "income" under the food stamp program. this is a logical income exclusion. however. as  written. this section is too restrictive and substantially penalizes those engaged in work training programs. clearly. if we recognize the necessity of making an exception to the rule for volunteers. we should also do it for people who have choice but to make an expenditure in order to receive training for work. their reimbursement more represents additional income than the allowed reimbursement to volunteers. one example which is very common is the situation in which a lowincome person. through one of our education or training programs. is given an allowance to travel to and from a training program or school. my amendment would disregard any reimbursementwhether made in advance or after the student paid the moneyto the extent that it was used to cover the educational expense. such as travel. for which it was intended. therefore. my amendment adds to the words "to volunteers" from the income exclusion in the committe bill the words "and those engaged in work training programs." this amendment thus makes the income exclusion section pertaining to reimbursements applicable also to people engaged in work training programs. my amendment does  seek to disregard income which in any way is intended to cover living expenses. or to contribute to any expense  associated with the purpose of the reimbursement. for example. if our training program participant were to receivein addition to the transportation allowanceany payment or grant intended to cover medical expenses or shelter expenses. that most certainly would count as income. but i think it eminently unfair to count a travel reimbursement as income. when it is clearly  available to the household for any other purpose than that for which it was intended. this is  a complicated amendment. i believe it is fair and completes the intent of the reimbursement section of the income exclusion provision. i therefore urge its adoption. i k that the distinguished chairman of the committee on agriculture and the ranking miity member agree to it.
. both the senate committee on labor and public welfare and the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce held complete hearings on companion measures to amend the railroad unemployment insurance act. the house version being h. r. 6525 which is  before us. both committees unanimously reported the respective bills. on april 24 the senate version was passed unanimously. h. r. 6525. with the committee amendment. is identical to the bill passed by the senate. the report accompanying the bill describes briefly but fully the compelling reasons for favorable action and. in addition. outlines the best available information as to the effect of the increases upon the unemployment insurance account. further. the material presented during the hearings contained conclusive evidence of the wide disparity between the benefits paid under current law. which. except for the two highest daily benefit rates. were established in 1940. and the current wage rates. weekly earnings. and substantially increased living costs. the increases as contained in the bill will go far toward restoring the ratio of benefits to earnings to where it was in 1946. evidence presented during the hearings indicated forcibly that the administration of this law has been of a very high quality and i was unable to determine any evidence of abuses. on the contrary. it does seem clear that there is an excellent record that the beneficiaries have sought protection under the law only when it was absolutely necessary. this is a bill which merits our support. in view of the identical nature of the provisions as it passed the senate and the legislation  before us. it is obvious that our action here today can send a completed bill promptly to the white house. and i have every reason to believe that such a bill would be signed and become effective at an early date.
. i doubt very much if i can be of any great assistance. i think practically everything has been said that needs to be said on both sides of this issue. however. i would like to explain why i am supporting the bill. and why i believe others can in all good conscience support it. it has been said here that this is a matter of simple justice. to my mind. that is the whole issue here before us. let me give you an illustration. mr. smith worked 15 years under social security and 15 years under railroad retirement. and when he retired he was awarded a pension of $117.55. that was a pension which he was told was for the rest of his life. after the amendments of 1951. and after the action on october 1. 1952. his check was reduced from $117.55 to $86.05. in other words. $31.50 was arbitrarily taken away from him. we all k that if that should happen under a private insurance arrangement. immediate suit would be brought. and the amount would be reinstated. i am  here saying that this may  have an adverse effect on the fund. of course it may. however. there are ways by which this fund can be protected. one of them is by changes of investment. there is a very low rate of interest paid into this particular fund in comparison with other government investments. the rate of interest has increased. that field is being explored. there are other ways in which they can probably build up this fund to a degree where there will be question about its solvency. there is absolutely question about its present solvency. as the gentleman from pennsylvania indicated. there is over $3.6 billion in it. and it has been increasing by hundreds of millions of dollars each year. there is indication that those increases will  continue. finally. let me quote one sentence from the testimony of mr. murray latimer. who i believe is as expert in this field as anybody in the entire country: this is the first time in the history of all of the world in which men given benefits by a law of a national government have ever had those benefits reduced. we have done that. i urge that it is our great obligation to change that this aftern.
. the senate conferees receded and accepted. with modification. the house approach. but the conferees dropped the provisions of the williamscase amendment. the result is that under the bill agreed to by the conferees. many teachers and other public employees of new jersey will lose their right to avoid the effect of the offset provision which they had counted on when they voted for the integration of the teachers and public employees pension funds with the social security system. this question was raised in the house. when the conference report came before the house for action. by representative canfield. of new jersey. in a colloquy with representative mills. chairman of the house ways and means committee.
. too often we take for granted the persistent and conscientious efforts which our representatives on conference committees make in resolving differences over important legislation. i commend the senior senator from oregon for his successful efforts in helping obtain agreement on the extension and improvement of the national defense education act. his work on the conference committee is of a part with his long and patient efforts as chairman of the education subcommittee of our committee on labor and public welfare to help improve educational facilities and standards for american young people. as one who has served alongside him on the subcommittee and who has watched him bring together divergent views in order to make progress. i feel that he deserves the credit which is  being bestowed upon him. todays success is further evidence of his good efforts and. as one who has urged recognition for the 2year community colleges. i k that in senator morse we have a true supporter.
. i introduce for appropriate reference. a bill to continue the aid to dependent childrenunemployed parent program and to extend the definition of "unemployment" to groups  outside the definition in some state laws. the aid to dependent childrenunemployed parent program. scheduled to expire on june 30. 1967. has been temporarily extended for 1 year by the congress and is  scheduled to expire on congress enacted the unemployed parent section in 1962 to provide a better environment for needy children by keeping families together and encouraging parents to become selfsupporting. the adcup program. since its inception. has helped thousands of needy families who. for one reason or aher. would  have been eligible for any kind of public assistance. prior to its enactment. a family whose breadwinner was out of work and longer eligible for unemployment benefits could  qualify for adc assistance. regrettably. this still holds true in those states which have  implemented the unemployed parent provision. in those states. families can receive adc assistance if there is a parent living with the family who might potentially support them. contrary to the intent of the basic adc law. this socalled maninthehouse requirement has led. tragically. to the breakup of families by forcing unemployed fathers out of the home so their families can receive adc payments. this is a cruel policy which  only works extreme hardship on the children but is also costly in a financial sense. experience in those states which have implemented the unemployed parent section has shown that jobless parents have secured work and resumed support of their families after receiving assistance for an average of 9 months. this compares. i am told. to an average period of 24 months for adc recipients in cases where a parent. usually the father. is  living with his family. thus. the return of a parent to the labor force in a minimum time has benefits beyond those directly affecting the family. the municipalities and states benefit. too. through substantially lower welfare costs. in spite of this experience. however. less than half the states have implemented the unemployed parent section of the adc program. obviously. many have been discouraged from doing so by the temporary nature of the law. extending the law indefinitely. as my amendment provides. would encourage the states to implement the program on a longterm basis and thereby help to achieve the goal of fostering and. in many cases. restoring. family stability. the second part of my bill would extend the eligibility requirements of the adc program to include underemployed persons. parttime workers and other persons who may fall outside the definition of "unemployment" in some state laws. under existing law. families may qualify for adc benefits where there is a dependent "needy child under the age of 18 who has been deprived of parental support or care by reason of the unemploymentas defined by the stateof a parent." i am glad to e that some states. on their own initiative. have broadened the definition of "unemployment" to include certain categories of underemployed workers even though the present unemployed parent section of the law does  make it clear that these groups can be readily included. my amendment would remove any possible doubt on this point by adding the underemployed group to the statutory definition of "unemployment." in line with the historic federalstate partnership in the welfare field. my bill would give the states the same authority to determine the level of income for underemployment as they  have to define unemployment. in short. the bill i am offering recognizes the fact that unemployment should  necessarily mean complete detachment from the labor force when it comes to determining the eligibility of needy children for adc benefits. i do  believe that congress intended to penalize the children whose parents want to become selfsupporting and are willing to look for work. yet this is precisely what we are doing by insisting that adc benefits can be paid only to the totally unemployed. under the strict definition of "unemployment" applied in many states. any salary earned by needy families means the loss of all adc benefits. just last year the advisory council on public welfare reported: forty per cent of all children of the poor lived in families where the breadwinners were employed year around but receiving wages too low to meet minimum family needs. to the families most in need. the average adc monthly family benefit of $150 is frequently more than they can earn on a parttime or even some fulltime jobs and. hence. stands as a deterrent to those seeking employment. making the underemployed and the partially employed eligible for adc benefits. as my bill does. provides an incentive for jobless parents to become selfsupporting while staying together as a family. * i am aware that serious questions are being raised regarding the whole area of categorical welfare assistance. properly so. in my view. for the moment. however. this is the only system we have and. as long as the congress is committed to the categorical approach. it is our responsibility to do whatever we can to make it work better. i am hopeful that the states will utilize the assistance made available by the federal government to help she needy children for whom the adc program was designed and which. at the same time. provides encouragement for parents to return to the labor force.
. i oppose the stennis amendment. my position does  reflect any lack of concern for equal application of our laws in all sections of the country. rather it is precisely because of my deep concern for equal educational opportunities for all children in every section of the country that i take this position. because of my concern. i introduced on tuesday. february 3. a bill which would take us at least one step toward meeting the problem of educational disadvantages faced by miity children who are racially. socially. or linguistically isolated in schools throughout the country. in introducing my bills. 3378i specifically urged that the committee on labor and public welfare thoroughly consider my bill and all other proposals dealing with these or related issues in an effort to develop a responsible legislative program to deal with this matter. the stennis amendment deals only partially with the very complex issue which my bill is designed to meet. it is  possible to do justice to this issue along with all the other matters raised by the pending bill. which include. among others. extension and expansion of the program of aid to educationally disadvantaged children. modification of the impacted areas aid program. adult and vocational education. and national defense education act loans. my bill is a responsible approach to the problem of providing equal educational opportunities to all children throughout the country. unlike the stennis amendment. it does  raise constitutional questions and it does  raise complicated legal questions as to its effect on existing programs or its meaning. as i pointed out during hearings on the health. education. and welfare appropriations last year. i believe there is some justification for feeling that the south is taking the brunt of the desegregation effort.  of the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare has assured me that hearings will be held on my bill and related proposals later this year. i am sure that the issues raised by the pending amendment will receive appropriate attention during those hearings.
madam president. i would like a quarter of a minute to say that maggiethe distinguished senator from washington. i beg the senators pardonwith his usual ability to go to the heart of a problem. has pointed out the real trouble here. the trouble started with the senator from nebraska. when he put on an appropriation bill in the first place a matter that should have been handled in a legislative way. this is legislation. it ought to go to the committee on labor and public welfare and be handled as such.
. i am cosponsoring legislation today with my colleague from new jersey . which will have the effect. if enacted. of righting an existing inequity in the retirement coverage afforded to state and local public employees in new jersey. similar legislation passed the senate in the 93d congress but. unfortunately. final action was  taken and our amendment did  become law. identical legislation is also being put in on the house side today. with the cosponsorship of the entire house delegation from new jersey. our proposal would permit public employees to elect to participate in the social security program on an individual basis. existing law permits such employees to elect to receive social security coverage only if a majority of the membership of individual pension funds votes for such coverage. i have heard from a number of individuals in new jersey who wish to participate in the social security program. but who have  been able to do so. the law has been amended in the past to permit public employees in other states who wish to do so to obtain this divided coverage. and i hope it will be possible for us to act to extend the same option to new jerseyans. by mr. biden (for himself. mr.
. yesterday when this measure was considered i was recorded as absent and  voting. this was attributable to the fact that the vote came so surprisingly soon after the debate started. because there seemed to be substantial opposition to the bill. as was shown by the sweeping vote in favor of the bill. had the opposition been substantial. the debate would have been protracted and i would have had adequate opportunity to vote. i arrived in the chamber but a few minutes after the vote was taken due to a delay encountered in my airplane travel necessitated by my being out of town on business connected with my legislative duties. though my vote was  needed in the result. i believe it appropriate to record my views on this legislation. i have heretofore stated in the debate on the first pension bill. which was recommitted to the committee on veterans affairs: i can see a real case for a pension to veterans of world war i of an age and condition to require itbased upon a traditional veterans pension policy. i have  deviated from my support of our traditional veterans pension policy for veterans of world war i who about this time are coming within range of the opportunity for enjoying pension benefits. heretofore we have voted veterans pensions under just such conditions. this situation is  applicable to the veterans of world war ii at this time. yet the pension provisions of the bill are on the whole reasonable. and though i have serious doubts as to the advisability of enacting pension legislation for world war ii veterans at this time i consider that these doubts are outweighed by the need for passing legislation to ho our traditional pension policy regarding veterans of world war i. hence. were i present i would have voted for the bill. week
 of the committee on the judiciary which brings this bill to the floor for consideration. if it a fact that we are to have new judges. is it  extremely desirable that we have judges who &re of the highest character and ability and who do  have any basic financial worries. i k in the southern district of new york from which i come. that our judges find the limitation of the federal salaries a very serious one. but even more serious their inability to save some competence for the future. as is possible by men in business or the professions who have full opportunity to do so. hence i ask the committee whether it would  be advisable to accompany this legislation setting up a pension or annuity system for federal judges which would do 2 things: (1) enable them to look forward to the future with 3onfidence that their families will get some ccnsideration. and (2) encourage retirement insofar as they are concerned by making such a provision for their families. what i refer to is some provision for the widows of federal judges. which is a subject of a bill that the gentleman from new york introduced and which i have joined in sponsoring. that would give such a widow a competence for her lifetime of onehalf the salary or pension of the judge received by him at the time of his death. has the committee given that any thought at all.
 was suggesting that action along those lines be taken. but all of that fell on deaf ears. the states have failed to act. therefore. i say to you it is the responsibility of this congress to act to remedy the situation with which we are faced. we must consider. and consider seriously. i believe. that unemployment compensation benefit payments are very. very important. they do two things: one. they help the unemployed worker by tiding him over. permitting him to feed himself and his family and clothe and house them. meager as the benefit amount is. secondly. it provides purchasing power which is reflected in the business of every businessman in the community. it is a great help ecoically. and that has been proven time and again through newspaper articles and statements that have been made by individual businessmen in those areas that were so sadly affected. the congress realized that the states were faced with this situation. and i refer  to the competitive situation. and enacted legislation levying a uniform 3 percent tax on all employers throughout the country. there is one of your standards. with a credit provision of 90 percent in those cases where the states have an unemployment insurance program meeting certain basic requirements as to disqualifications. and so on. set forth in the federal law. in addition. the federal law permits an experience rating credit based upon the employment record of employers. in my opinion. there would be very few states today with adequate unemployment insurance programs had  the federal government taken this action. the very same reasons which impelled the congress to take the initiative in establishing the unemployment insurance program in the first instance also controls when it comes to maintaining adequate payment both as to size and duration. minimum requirements had to be established by the federal government in this field because unemployment insurance deals with ecoic problems which are nationwide and beyond the control of the individual state. it is being claimed that the present administration is making extensive improvements in the federalstate unemployment insurance program. my friends. the only improvement of any account. which would be provided by the bill  under consideration. is an extension of coverage. hing whatever is being done for those workers who are already covered. as a matter of fact. i was the author of a bill in the 82d congress which was reported to this house. and which provided for coverage of federal employees. this group makes up the bulk to whom coverage would be extended in the pending bill. for years i have led the fight to improve unemployment insurance. and while i fully support the extension of coverage provided in this bill. i deny any claims that basic improvements are being made in the unemployment insurance program as a result of the bill. h. r. 9709. the need is urgent to increase the size and duration of payments. the unemployment insurance payments have proved their value to the ecoy of the country. and particularly to local communities time and again. more adequate benefits during this period of high unemployment and readjustment can do as much to bolster our sagging ecoy as any other one thing which the congress can do. the relief which should be provided every family by more adequate benefits from the tragedy resulting from unemployment can be measured in dollars. our whole nation stands to gain by a more adequate unemployment insurance program. it is my intention when we get into the house to offer two amendments which on yesterday i inserted in the congressional record.
i wish to make it clear that there was implication in what i said that so far as labor is concerned. .any oppressive amendments were being offered. on the contrary. i find myself in great sympathy with and shall undoubtedly support the amendments on internal administration and grievance machinery. i point out that the climate in which we legislate is very important for the country in determining whether that on which we legislate shall ever become law. the climate in which we act on the amendments and attach them to the bill could be construed. and will be construed. in many quarters of the country. as being an effort to legislate in a repressive way. based upon the findings of the mcclellan committee. i expressed the greatest confidence in the miity leader. and i will prove it in my own person. by having the ho. next week. to go to his home community and there make a major speech. i have the greatest confidence in the motives. and. indeed. in the fundamental objectives. of the amendments which have been submitted. but i join my senior colleague from new york in the deep conviction that this is  in the best interests of the measures with respect to pension and welfare funds which the national interest dictates that we pass . i thank my colleague from new york for allowing me to make this statement.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by capital city post 225. the american legion. at albany. n.y.. relating to disability pension laws. and a resolution adopted by the chenango county chamber of commerce. relating to the repeal of the soil bank program.
. first i should like to say that this bill has incorrectly received the sobriquet "the hiss bill." as a matter of fact. i understand from the senator from pennsylvania that the bill expressly excludes restoration of a pension to anybody like hiss. is that correct.
new york may have special circumstances. there is disability insurance and all kinds of state programs which have an effect as to the number participating. that is why i think the department of health. education. and welfare is a better judge than we are.
. we have heard much about antirecession programs. this is really the first antirecession bill. a number of bills are being flagged as antirecession measures. perhaps to get them by under a "rush" tag. when actually they are  antirecession bills. however. this bill is an antirecession measure. i think congress is entitled to praise and approval for having brought this bill to fruition. it is absolutely essential to any concrete underpinning for our ecoy to make certain that workers who are unemployed through fault of their own do  suffer in so affluent a societyto paraphrase the title of a bookas ours. so the general purpose of the proposed legislation is very much to be commended. second. i express the hope that my state of new york will be. perhaps. the first to participate. our legislature will adjourn this weekend. both my colleague from new york and i have talked with gover rockefeller concerning the passage of legislation which would make it possible for new york to take advantage of this act. in lieu of what was called triggerpoint legislation in new york. by which the state itself would have endeavored. withstanding the overwhelming burden. to fulfill some of the responsibility which is provided in the bill before the senate. finally. i think the conferees have reached an admirable solution of the pension problem. i am one of those who voted "nay" on theat amendment. because i thought it went much too far in penalizing the recipients of social security. indeed. i hoped and believed that if there were a substantial negative vote. it would indicate that we were disquieted about the matter. withstanding the sensational disclosures for which great credit and tribute are due the distinguished senator from delaware . this problem has been solved. because obviously there was division between those who were disquieted and those who favored the amendment in its previous form. so i believe an excellent compromise has been reached. congress has shown that in the pinches it acts with responsibility. i think it should be ed for the country and the world that the u.s. congress ks how to assume and to carry responsibility when a responsibility is clearly ours.
in order to have a plan whith is completely fair and discriminatory. and in view of the fact that the great number of plans are socalled unilateral plans. whether they are fixed plans or which is a word of art. relating to making sure of the integrity of the fundit is necessary to have coverage under this bill all inclusive. however. i believe that any doubt on that point is resolved by the testimony given before the house committee on labor on this very matter on june 1. 1961. by james m. higgins. chief. examination section. welfare fund bureau. new york .insurance department. . in his testimony mr. higgins affirmed -the point that in order to have a complete system which assures the integrity of the plan it is necessary to include in coverage the unilateral plan. he added that the new york law does  include it. and he therefore feels that this is a deficiency in the new york law which should be corrected. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony of mr. higgins on this point in the hearings before the committee in the house may be made a part of my remarks. as answering this point. which i believe is a perfectly valid point which has troubled many businessmen. they do  want regulation if it is  needed. therefore the proper test is whether it is needed. here is a very experienced voice in the field from my own state which says it is needed. so i ask unanimous consent that his testimony on this point may be included in the record as a part of my remarks. . there being objection. the excerpt was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: mr. higgins. we were of the opinion that the jointly administered funds. that the conditions which dictated supervision over jointly administered funds. would apply equally to unilateral funds. we suggested to our legislature on at least two occasions. that these other funds be included under the scope of our law. that has  been done up to this time.
. the bill is the result of the work of a subcommittee of the committee on government operations. which has been presided over by the senator from minnesota . the subcommittee on national policy machinery. we have become so impressed with the need for highly trained men that it is almost inconceivable that we should bar ourselves from the use of former military officers because of the complications which we introduce as to their pension rights and pension income. this bill was drafted by the civil service commission. and i hope very much the senator from arkansas will support it.
i wish to correct a statement. i would like the miity leader to kand i disagree with the senators views on this issue. as he ksthat the labor and public welfare committee considered the house bill. we compared it with our own version. when we reported the bill. we reported it in light of the house version of the fepc bill.
i wish the record to show that when the bill was voted out of the committee on labor and public welfare it was understood that time would be afforded to members of the committee who might  be present. especially on my side of the aisle. to file miity or dissenting views. it is  my understanding from the miity and the distinguished chairman that inquiries have been made. because of that fact i have joined in the desire to bring up the measure at this time. there is disposition to hold up the bill or to seek time to file miity or dissenting views. i wish the record to be clear on that fact. because it was the understanding that it was intended to accommodate members of the committee who had wished to do so. i ask the chairman of the committee if my statement is correct.
. in solving our domestic problemsespecially those involving the welfare of our underprivileged citizensi have always advocated cooperation between local. state. and the federal governments. i have offered amendments to bills establishing federal programs in many of these areas that would have allowed local and state governments to show initiative in designing programs particularly suited to local problems. last week. the state of new york provided an outstanding example of such initiative. gov. nelson a. rockefeller on thursday annced that the new york state department of labor. in cooperation with the state and new york citys departments of education. and the federal departments of labor and health. education. and welfare had developed a largescale attack on illiteracy and unemployment in new york city. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the statement by gover rockefellers office explaining the program. and an article which was published in the new york times of september 25 on the same subject.
 of the united states that amendments were to be accepted. but were to be voted down by the majoritymust be subject to the independent judgment of the majority of the senate. the principal title of this bill directs more than $1 billion in aid toward povertyrelated children who are defined as those coming from families with less than $2.000 annual income and those from families whose income from aid to families with dependent childrenafdcis more than $2.000. this $2.000 annual income poverty level stands in contrast with the $3.000 poverty level employed by the office of ecoic opportunity in connection with its programs for preschool childrensuch as project head startand the administrations higher education bill . which also stipulates a $3.000 annual income poverty level in setting forth the requirements for a student to receive a scholarship incentive. thus. we are faced with the anamoly of a youngster being at the poverty level during his preschool and college years if he comes from a $3.000 annual income family. but during his school years being considered at the poverty level only where his family earns $2.000 or less. this amendment is designed to meet two principal objections to the present bill which had been pointed up by witnesses during the recent hearings: first. there is matching provision. and. second. under the inadequate poverty yardstick of $2.000 annual family income. only about 11 percent of all schoolage children are reached. under the amendment we are submitting today. the formula for the first year would stand as presently written. with each state receiving a federal grant equal to 50 percent of the current average annual per pupil expenditure. multiplied by the number of children from families of under $2.000 annual income and those from afdc families above $2.000. this formula would continue to apply for the second and third years for the under $2.000 and afdc children. however. during the second and third years. children from families in the $2.000 to $3.000 annual income category would be brought in under a matching formula providing for a federal contribution of 25 percent of the average annual per pupil expenditure. where this is matched by an equal amount from state and/or local funds. cxi----447 under our amendment. therefore. the number of children directly affected would be increased by about 60 percentfrom some 5 million to some 8 million childrenwith a great improvement in educational opportunity. while federal cost for title i would be raised only about onethird. in this way the bill could much more effectively serve its purpose of fighting poverty by aiding a substantial added number of the school population from such families who need it badly. to illustrate how our amendment would work. consider a state with an average annual per pupil expenditure of $450. for each of the 3 years authorized for h.r. 2362. that state would receive a federal grant of $225 for every child between 5 and 17 from a family with an income of $2.000 or less and those from afdc families above $2.000. in addition. for each of the second and third years of the operation of the education bill the state would receive a federal grant of $112.50 for each child from a family with an income of from $2.000 to $3.000 counting afdc children previously coveredprovided that that amount is matched from state and/or local funds. thus. an additional $225 a year would be directed to the child from the $2.000 to $3.000 income family. as well as to the child from under $2.000 income family. in addition. the state could elect to receive either the additional funds for the $2.000 to $3.000 annual income children or the funds available under the special incentive grant provided by section 204. i ask that there be appended to my remarks at this point a chart prepared by the department of health. education. and welfare giving the number and percentage of schoolage children in each state coming from families with incomes of less than $3.000 annually. a library of congress study. "federal laws relating to education which have provisions requiring matching by the recipient." a hew survey as to the amounts to be received by each state under this amendment. and the amendment itself.
 of u.s. industries. inc.. and who died at an untimely age. testified before the committee on labor and public welfare and other committees of the congress on many occasions. he was an outstanding figure in both business and the public interests. and was serving at the time of his death as a member of the national commission on techogy. automation. and ecoic progress. i extend my condolences to his family. and to his firm and associates through which he represented so much for the american people of the best in american business. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial on mr. snyders passing published in todays issue of the new york times be printed at this point in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point relevant excerpts from the transcript of the hearings before committee on labor and public welfare on september 9. 1964. on the ination of mr. shriver to be director of the office of ecoic opportunity. excerpts from the transcript of the hearings before the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare on may 18. 1965. on the higher education act of 1965. a letter which i wrote to mr. shriver on march 4. 1965. and mr. shrivers reply dated march 15. 1965. . there being objection. the material was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: senator javrrs. mr. shriver. do you consider the job of being head of the peace corps a parttime job.
. while i am on my feet. i should like to say to the senator from texas that i am glad that this is a rather quiet day giving the senator an opportunity to set forth his views at length. whatever may be my own views on the questionand i have joined in the miity views and have supported the concept of the saltonstall amendmenti wish to say to the senator from texas that. sitting with him in the committee and being. as it were. on the other side of the question. i have rarely seen such dedication to a cause and such indefatigable pursuit of it. i hardly recall a bill which the committee on labor and public welfare dealt with in which the chairman of the subcommittee on veterans affairs has so greatly succeeded in tying in. at least by way of illustration. what is so very deeply his conviction on this question. as i have saidand perhaps coming even more suitably from me. because i have been somewhat on the other side of the question. and have desired to modify the measure which the senator from texas has proposedetheless. i wish to pay tribute to a senator who has shown such mettle in the pursuit of a cause to which he is obviously very deeply devoted.
s choice. i placed in the record of hearings before the labor and public welfare committee a letter from mr. shriver to that effect. i ask unanimous consent that it be made a part of these remarks. as well. the letter is dated march 15. 1965.
 has requested. i think this arrangement is most illadvised. there is domestic program in the federal government that is more sensitive than is the antipoverty program to the possibilities of abuse through politics. poor people are the targets of the program. there is an emous federal disbursal of money. of the magnitude. in the new bill. of more than $1.5 billion a year. the funds in the most significant component. the community action programs. are disbursed largely through citywide committees to small projects on the neighborhood level. with the danger at every step of political influence and the possibility of charges of such influence throughout the country. which is exactly what has happened and will continue to happen. we want a director who is sensitive and keen to this danger and who. in addition. will be concerned with the possibilities of every type of abuse. fraud. and deception. as well as mismanagement and outright stealing. these are  unkn dangers in federal programs in which a vast number of federal employees are involved all the way down to the local level. as this one must be if it is to be effective. so we want an administrator who is as smart as mr. shriver and who is able to ride herd on the agency every minute. that is the least assurance that congress should have. in respect to the peace corps. we want a director who has the same evangelism. the same exciting quality that mr. shriver brought to the peace corps and which helped to bring this fine idea of the peace corps to the point where it has become a favorite of congress. as a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. i see terrible dangers in the poverty program. we need a fulltime director of the most able kind. on top of that. he must be directing the agency every minute. as one who has been concerned with foreign affairs all my life. including membership on the committee on foreign affairs of the other body. i am aware of the importance of maintaining that evangelism. that excitement. that fire which has inspired american youth to go into the peace corps. we hear from authoritative sources disquieting reports about the peace corps. some weeks ago. i invited the attention of the senate to a column written by roscoe drummond. in which he said that excitement and enthusiasm in the peace corps are faltering because of parttime direction. i placed that column and aher by edwin j. safford in the record of april 26. 1965. because they are so pertinent to this particular discussion. i ask unanimous consent that they be made a part of my remarks today.
 however. i wish to say at this time that tributes are generally paid after a bill is passed. i hope that we shall be able to do that today. the work of the senior senator from oregon in bringing this bill to the floor with the unanimous support of the committee on labor and public welfare is of such an extraordinary quality that i feel that that alone. whatever else ensues. deserves the highest encomium of which  only i am capable but also the entire world of education. it is extraordinary that a man of so many abilities in so many fields becomes the most adroit. intelligent. wise judge. conciliator. and friend when he is in charge of a bill that any committee could ever have. it is most extraordinary. i say to the senator that i am  given to banalities. therefore. i make this special point because we k the senator as a man who stands alone in many things. however. when it comes to his handling this legislation. it is extraordinary to witness the gifted performance which he has given. this is but one of a series of examples. i believe that the country should be very proud of wayne morse in his handling of a bill in such a sensitive and highly important field. the pending measure is probably as vital to the future of the nation as any other legislation we have had or will have. it is somewhat difficult to realize the fact that the committee agreed upon the report by a unanimous vote.
. a continuing concern of many observers of the war on poverty is the duplication and deficiency in effective coordination among its various programs and other federal programs. particularly in the field of manpower training. the current hearings before the employment and manpower subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. highlight the need for much more concentrated effort at coordination of training programs around the existing network of employment. service agencies administered by the states with federal funds. accordingly. i am today introducing for reference to the labor and public welfare committee. parallel amendments to the pending bill to amend the employment service act. the wagnerpeyser act. s. 2974. and to the ecoic opportunity act to achieve coordination of the federal training programs with the employment service. i am also introducing three additional amendments to the employment service bill: fiist. establishing a program of relocation assistance to increase the mobility of unemployed individuals. second. broadening the provision of s. 2974 for training of employment service personnel to include. on a reimbursable basis. employees of private employment agencies. and third. increasing the membership of the national advisory committee to include two representatives of the private employment agencies. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment and bill be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill entitled "the pension and employee benefit act of 1967." this bill. in my judgment. is the first truly comprehensive legislative proposal to deal with the major problems and defects in our private pension plan system. as the ranking miity member of the committee having principal charge of such matters. i have introduced the bill as a matter of duty. the principal provisions of the bill are a creation and development of the thinking of the miity counsel of the committee on labor and public welfare. frank cummings. a member of the bars of new york and* the district of columbia. who is about to leave that serviceas of today. as a matter of factto go with a new york law firm. in my judg. ment. i think the whole nation owes him a debt of gratitude for the work he has done on a very comprehensive plan to deal with problems of pension and welfare funds. this bill. which. as i have said. deals with the major problems and defects in our private pension plan system. would accomplish the following: first. the bill would establish minimum vesting standards for pension plans. thereby giving assurance that pension plan could set its eligibility standards so high as to deny pension eligibility to all but a few employees. second. the bill would establish minimum funding standards. thereby giving assurance that pension funds will be operated on a sound and solvent basis. enabling the fund to deliver the benefits which have been promised. third. the bill would establish a program of pension plan reinsurance so that plans meeting the vesting and funding standards of the bill would be insured against termination. and retirees would be insured against loss of benefits when an employer goes out of business before the plan has been fully funded. fourth. the bill would provide for the establishment of a special central portability fund. participation in which would be on a voluntary basis. enabling pension plans to have a central clearinghouse of pension credits for persons transferring from one employer to aher. fifth. the bill would establish certain minimum standards of conduct. restrictions on conflicts of interest. and other ethicalcriteria which are to be followed in the administration of pension plans and other plans providing benefits for employees. sixth. the bill would establish a u.s. pension and employee benefit plan commission to administer the requirements of this bill. the commission would be given sufficient enforcement powers to insure compliance. but the bill also provides for judicial review. insuring to the maximum feasible extent against arbitrary exercise of the commissions powers. and seventh. the bill consolidates in the commission most existing federal regulatory standards relating to pension and welfare plans. thereby relieving employers. unions. insurance companies and banks of the necessity of dealing with multiple federal agencies--such as the labor -department under the disclosure act or the treasury department under the pension provisions of the tax code. under this bill. a qualification certificate from the pension commission will be sufficient to satisfy most. if  all. federal regulatory statutes governing employee benefit plans.
i have called the attention of the senate to that fact. and i have spoken about it and have cast many votes on the strength of it. and will do so again. all i am attempting to do is this: i k that this is a hot issue in the defense department. and it is a very hot issue in the country. therefore. to leave this statement in the report. without anybody saying anything about it. might conceivably give the implication. by silence. that we all agreed and went along. the vote will be overwhelming. perhaps unanimousas indeed it deserves to be. from that point of view. i wish to make it clear for myself as to how i interpret what is stated. even after the vote. and to state the obviouswhich sometimes has to be statedthat it represents the view of a committee and is  binding on the senate. even after the vote. i point out. with all respect to my colleague. the senator from georgia. that on occasion he has found himself m the same position in which i find myself. in respect of a report from the committee on the judiciary or from the committee on labor and public welfare or some other committee. he wants to be sure that he has divorced himself from that part of it. sometimes the senator might speak. sometimes he might . in this particular case. because it is a matter of great public interest. i am of the opinion that i should make my own view clear. i find fault whatever. and i believe if the senator will read my remarksi am sure he listened to them carefully-
. i rise to speak today of the agony of our cities. of the source of the causes of that turmoil. and of solutions. in the light of burning buildings. and to the accompaniment of the sound of gunfire. americas understanding of itself is on trial. we are  a country whose conception of its problems and of the type and pace of necessary solutions has been savagely overtaken by events. for some years. the phee of urbanization has been the dominant domestic trend in this countrya trend far outrunning our ability to realize it and deal with it. in many ways. we still pamper ourselves in the belief that this is  happening. and we act accordingly. there are state legislatures still. for the most part. dominated by ideas fixed in a time before city slums intruded on the public conscience. the congress cuts down and into the bone of programs focused on city problemsmodel cities. rent supplements. rat eradication. and antipoverty. we still harbor a sense of priorities which. at least until faced with widespread riot and civil disturbance. permits the allotment of the national treasure into foreign and domestic programs whose urgency is far less than that of the threat to our basic domestic security which we  face. if they produce a fundamental reshaping of our national priorities. we may some day be able to regard the riots of this summer as a blessing in disguise which saved us from an even worse conflagration at a later date. they have at least focused attention on the most dangerous byproduct of urbanizationthe big city slum. it is to deal with the problems of those slums that i am introducing this legislation today. this legislation seeks to deal with two related problems which are fundamental to the pathology and psychosis of the slum. we have been aware of the first problem for some timethat of massive and chronic unemploymentbut a series of 10 labor department slum surveys conducted in ember 1966 gave us our first clear idea of the staggering dimensions of the problem. these surveys showed that the unemployment rate in these areas was about 10 percent. or three times the average for the rest of the country. one of every five of those slum residents working full time was earning an income below the poverty line. at least a fifth of the adult men could  even be found in the surveys. and their employment status was unkn. "subemployment" in these areas. measuring joblessness. participation in the labor force. and earnings below the poverty line. averaged 34 percent. varying from 24 to 47 percent. the most serious single problem was perhaps that of unemployment among white teenagers averaging 30 percent. and the employment gap between white and white teenagers is increasing. though the gap for adult males is narrowing. the study concluded that "unemploymentor subemploymentin city slums is so much worse than it is in the country as a whole that the national measurements of unemployment are utterly irrelevant." moreover. there is evidence that the situation is deteriorating. the labor department reports that "social and ecoic conditions are getting worse.  better. in slum areas" and a recent study of the welfare rolls in new york city shows that dependency is deepening. with the average length of stay on assistance under aid to families with dependent children lengthening in recent years from 23 to 28 months. of course the other indices of social and ecoic deprivation are also higher in the slums than elsewhere. such as the percentages of substandard homes. of high school dropouts. of infant mortality and the like. but jobs. i would insist. is the most fundamental of these problems. for with adequate jobs people have the incomes to purchase their own solutions to many of their other problems. higher incomes can set off a domieffect to community selfimprovement in areas such as health and housing. as secretary wirtz recently put it. "jobs are the live ammunition in the war on poverty." a second fundamental problem. but one which we have tended to overlook. is the lack of involvement of the slum resident in the ownership and management of the business community which serves him. the riots have shown us the depths of this alienation and resentment. as whiteowned stores were burned and looted while "soul brother" establishments were spared. though he is tragically mistaken. the slum negro sees himself as having stake in the ecoic life of his community and realistic possibility of becoming a part of ithence there is community morality against destroying it. the corner store. while it is the place where he gets his groceries. is too often also the place where he can get credit. where the prices go up on the days the welfare checks come out. where excessive credit charges are imposed. and where he can get a job. as we  k. these irritants can slowly fester and grow into massive violence and civil disorder. we pride ourselves on our system of private enterprise and capitalism. secure in the belief that where everyone shares in the responsibilities and benefits. all will remain guardians of the system and will prosper. we must  ask what we are prepared to do to insure that all groups do in fact participate and have a stake in the preservation of the ecoic system. we have kn for some time that our small business development efforts in the ghettos were sadly neglected. and the riots only spotlight the need. we  must seek to train and assist men to become owners and entrepreneurs in our society with as much vigor as we are  training them to become other peoples employees. but before we can logically proceed to develop solutions to these problems of slum unemployment and lack of involvement in business ownership and management. we must probe further into some of their proximate causes.
since we passed the ecoic opportunity act over 4 years ago. we have voted $6 billion to fund the programs enacted under that legislation. i have strongly supported this legislation and i believe that the money spent represents sound investment. however. i believe that we can improve the administration of the various programs and enhance their efficiency in delivering services to the poor. in a recent article prepared for poverty and human resources abstracts. by dr. sar levitan of the center for manpower policy studies. the george washington university. takes a rare second look at some of his previous findings on two of the antipoverty programs for youth. this reexamination raises some disturbing questions about how successful the job corps is in educating enrollees or what happens to youth in the neighborhood youth corps projects. information provided by outside evaluators has been valuable to us in our work on the ecoic opportunity act. we hope that this continuing work. when supplemented by the work of the gao. will provide us with better information about the antipoverty programs than we  have. i ask unanimous consent to have the article printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill entitled "the pension and employee benefit act of the 1969." this bill is a comprehensive legislative proposal to deal with the major problems and defects in our private pension plan system. and would accomplish the following: first. the bill would establish minimum vesting standards for pension plans. thereby giving assurance that pension plan could set its eligibility standards so high as to deny pension eligibility to all but a few employees. second. the bill would establish minimum funding standards. thereby giving assurance that pension funds will be operated on a sound and solvent basis. enabling the fund to deliver the benefits which have been promised. third. the bill would establish a program of pension plan reinsurance so that plans meeting the vesting and funding standards of the bill would be insured against termination. and retirees would be insured against loss of benefits if an employer goes out of business before the plan has been fully funded. fourth. the bill would provide for the establishment of a special central portability fund. participation in which would be on a voluntary basis. enabling pension plans to have a central clearinghouse of pension credits for persons transferring from one employer to aher. fifth. the bill would establish certain minimum standards of conduct. restrictions on conflicts of interest. and other ethical criteria which are to be followed in the administration of pension plans and other plans providing benefits for employees. sixth. the bill would establish a u.s. pension and employee benefit plan commission to administer the requirements of this bill. the commission would be given sufficient enforcement powers to insure compliance. but the bill also provides for judicial review. insuring to the maximum feasible extent against arbitrary exercise of the commissions powers. seventh. the bill consolidates in the commission most existing federal regulatory standards relating to pension and welfare plans. thereby relieving employers. unions. insurance companies. and banks of the necessity of dealing with multiple federal agenciessuch as the labor department under the disclosure act or the treasury department under the pension provisions of the tax code. under this bill. a qualification certificate from the pension commission will be sufficient to satisfy substantially all federal regulatory statutes governing employee benefit plans. and eighth. the bill establishes federal court jurisdiction of suits involving pension plans. and provides a simplified method for enforcement and recovery of pension rights.
when the senator says. does it satisfy me. i am  satisfied at all with the need for evaluating resources in a welfare situation. but i believe that if we have income anyhow. and we do confine it to the individual and make it a test of whether a single individual shall have the benefit of the program that the secretary of agriculture puts into an area. i have objection. therefore. if the senator will modify his amendment. i have hing further to say against it.
. with the consent of both sides. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare may meet for 15 minutes to report a bill to the full committee at this particular time.
. the oakland tribune has published an interesting frontpage series of articles on private pension plans. upon the completion of that series. it has just published an editorial concerning the need for federal regulation of private pension plans. in that connection. it has commented favorably upon my bill. s. 2167. the pension and employee benefit act of i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a frontpage column published in the oakland tribune concerning. among other things. a speech i made recently before the aflcio on this subject.
s recently proposed welfare program is the provision of day care facilities to persons receiving welfare assistance who participate in manpower training or employment programs. the proposal would make available an additional 450.000 quality day care places. at a cost of $386.000.000 to the federal government. this provision is a muchneeded feature of a long overdue revamping of the welfare program. which for years has acted as a disincentive to work and at the same time has failed to provide benefits which are sufficient to maintain a decent standard of living. if families are to live without accepting welfare. they must work. and if mothers are to work. they must have adequate day care facilities for their children. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the close of my
. it is high time the senate struck it out 100 percent and decided that it is  going to deal with this type of response. that is here in an appropriation bill. why do we have the committee on labor and public welfare for. if the appropriations committee is going to run education. and defense. and is going to run transportation. and is going to run everything else and decide the basic policies. we might as well go out of business and forget it. that is the issue before the senate. here we are again with this question in some different form. it is a 1800 change. i deeply believe that the senate should. in its wisdom. decide who will handle this thing. an educational committee with an education bill. thought through from the educational point of view. or handle it on the budgetary level. i respectfully submit that that should be clear ice to everyone. that if we are going to handle this on the money level. it will be ice to the institutions of higher learning that we will be using money power to tell them how they are going to run their institutions. there is other way out.
. my point was that often we recommit a bill to kill it. i gather from the statement of the senator that that is  his design and that he understands the committee on labor and public welfare may well endeavor to articulate the point i have made. the point he has made. and the points others have made. but that we are  killing it by sending it back to committee in an honest effort to have the committee review the situation in light of what has been said on the floor of the senate. and then to come up with a measure to more nearly meet these views.
. the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am the ranking member. in its october 1969 report on the ecoic opportunity amendments urged a full implementation of the special impact program in order to realize the full potential of communitybased ecoic development both in terms of expanding the program to permit the funding of a number of proposals  pending from community groups and in terms of exploring the potential for further private involvement. on the latter point. the report stated: the committee hopes that as the program develops it will look into ways and means to involve the business community effectively in special impact programs as a source of both capital and technical assistance to developing community based corporations. with this commendable initiative from the office of ecoic opportunity. i think that it is an appropriate occasion for the subcommittee on employment. manpower and poverty. chaired by senator gaylord nelson. to hold a series of hearings to fully examine the potential of the special impact program. as well as the office of ecoic opportunitys proposed demonstration programs and related programs and initiatives so that we can move thoughtfully with all possible speed toward a total ecoic development and miity enterprise strategy. accordingly. i hope that the chairman of the labor and public welfare coffimittee. senator yarborough. and the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty. senator nelsenwho have themselves made significant contributions in this areawill add such hearings to the committees schedule.
. i ask unanimous consent that the letter under date of march 4. 1970. from the secretary of transportation to the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare concerning the details of the issuance of an emergency order be printed in the record together with the analysis of the chairman of the council of ecoic advisers. similarly addressed. dated march 3. 1970.
. with the new emphasis on defining national goals and priorities. and focusing on the issues likely to arise in the foreseeable future. i find it most interesting and reassuring that the society of sigma xithe nations scientific hoary societyrecently invited a practicing lawyer. daniel m. singer. esq.. to address the societys annual meeting on a subject which might at first seem to be purely scientific but which on closer examination reveals a real need for interdisciplinary discourse. mr. singer raises.some really new and puzzling issues. and their implications are surprising and substantial. suppose. for example. that a sudden breakthrough in biological science through genetic alteration. drug therapy or organ replacement makes it possible to extend the lifespan of man to 120 yearswhich is. i believe. a very real possibility. what would that do to our societywhich would then be a society in which men and women at "retirement age" would have. nevertheless. an additional 50 or 60 years. what would become of the structure of our business and professional leadership in the context of young men entering fields of endeavor in which their "elders" had aher 80 years before retirement. indeed. what would become of our whole system of public and private pension and retirement plans. which might collapse in bankruptcy if a sudden change in lifespan revolutionized the actuarial assumptions on which the system is based. mr. singers remarks point up the need for a much closer cooperation and dialog between the social and scientific professions. i take some real satisfaction in the fact that it is a member of my own legal profession who is pointing the way. and i ask unanimous consent that mr. singers remarks be printed in the record.
. my colleague. senator kennedy. introduced in the record on august 4. 1970. the extremely valuable and perceptive article. entitled "the old in the country of the young." published in time magazine of i would like to join in commending the editors of time magazine for publishing this authoritative and incisive examination of the truly bewildering array of problems confronting the elderly. certainly the number and complexity of these difficulties has led to what can be termed "a crisis of the aged"-a crisis which is growing to such proportions that it contains all the ingredients for a vast social upheavalunless we take the necessary steps to head it off. in this connection. i would like to direct the attention of my colleagues to one critical passage in the time article which. in my judgment. exposes the underlying core of the "crisis of the aged." as the time report succinctly observes: aside from health. money is the most pervasive worry of the aged: income maintenance is a major need. private pension plans need attention too. according to one informed estimate. only 10% of the people who work under pension plans actually receive any benefits. usually because they do  stay long egh to qualify. as presently arranged. pensions also tend to lock older workers into their jobs and. if they become unemployed to lock them out. they are then denied jobs because it is too expensive to let them join a pension plan. without the means to take advantage of the opportunities for leading a positive and diversified existence. it is inevitable that many senior citizens will. of necessity. continue to lead frozen lives of deprivation. isolation. and despair. thus. the key to any successful strategy for ending the forced and unnecessary obsolescence of the elderly. is to insure to the greatest feasible extent that the aged receive an adequate income. it is important to appreciate that private pension plans can make a significant contribution to the ecoic security of large numbers of the elderlygiving to them together with social security a much higher level of living in retirement than would probably be the case from even a substantially liberalized social security system standing alone. while great emphasis deservedly falls on improving social security benefits. it is imperative that we also see to it that the private pension system operate in the public interest. since 1967 i have urged basic reforms to the private pension system. as proposed in my bill. s. 2167. in recent months. i have emphasized the basic lack of fairness in private pension plans which fail to provide retirement benefits to substantial numbers of employees because of harsh qualifying requirements. to determine the extent of this lack of justice in private pension plans. senator williams of new jersey and i have recently commenced a surveywhich will for the first time fully document the severity of this problem. this survey is being conducted among a representative sample of some 1.500 pension plans in the country and i believe that it will provide the necessary perspective the congress needs to grasp the seriousness of this matter. lack of fairness. however. does  tell the complete story. to many thousands of retired workers. the additional income generated by private retirement plans could mean the difference between living in cheap. shoddy surroundings or living in modest but adequate housing. eating minimal unbalanced diets. or eating wholesome nutritious meals. foregoing or taking advantage of needed medical care and treatment. and existing in an isolated. friendless world or having the means to utilize existing transportation to visit friends and relatives and participate in community activities. unfortunately. for too many retired workers this anticipated retirement income will  be forthcoming simply because they will be victimized by the pension plans in which they had placed their confidence. incredible as it sounds. the government  only permits this victimization to take place but encourages it by permitting employees to take tax deductions for contributions to pension plans which are so restrictively structured that they will only pay off to a handful of employees.  only this. but the government permits its contractors to recover as an item of reimbursable expense. contributions made to a pension plan that will only rarely pay off in terms of benefits. and under the fair labor standards act. an employer is permitted to exclude from the rate of overtime compensation he must pay to his employees. contributions he makes to pension plans. even though that plan may hardly ever pay off and even though the employee has foregone wage increases in order to obtain promised retirement benefits that may never materialize. and if this is  egh. consider that opponents of pension reform express concern that such reform will discourage employers from establishing new plans. as if by some parody of reasoning the failure to encourage the further extension of inequitable plans should cause distress. i do  say that reform of the private pension system will automatically resolve the aging crisis. of course. it will . it will. however. provide that needed margin of security to many thousands that will enable them to confront old age with confidence and dignity. i urge all those interested in securing a decent life for our senior citizens to give their attention to this matter of pension reformand give it the highest priority. it is clear that pension reform is an essential ingredient if we are to successfully cope with the accelerating problems of the aging.
. first. i would like to join my colleagues in expressing the appreciation of the members of the conference from the committee on labor and public welfare to the senator from arkansas . the senator from connecticut . who is  here today. and to other senators who. insofar as our work was concerned. which was title i. were very helpful in giving us a clear field to work things out the best way we could. i join also in the regret expressed that the entire hughes substitute amendment to title i of h.r. 18583 which i cosponsored as did every member of the committee on labor and public welfare --
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at the end of my statement the text of my amendment. and the types of offset provisions from the pension plans of certain major companies. this practice of offsetting social security increases by reducing private pension benefits. although permissible under current law. is particularly deplorable in inflationary times. such as those we are currently experiencing. since it effectively takes from the retiree of the very money he needs to cope with the rising cost in living. when social security increases are voted by congress. the idea is to give all of that money to the pensioners. the idea is certainly  to provide corporations with the justification for reducing their contributions to private pension plans by cutting back on the benefits required to be paid out by the plan. the only way that we can preclude social security increases from being converted into a windfall at the expense of the pensioner is to have some penalty on those who insist on engaging in this practice. for this reason. the amendment i propose would disallow employer tax deductions for contributions to a pension plan by the amount he saves as a result -of reducing his employees pensions. it seems to me that this is the most practical and feasible method of discomaging a practice which negates any good that is accomplished by voting social security increases. i earnestly hope that this amendment will receive every consideration by the committee on finance.
does the senator k that the senate appropriated $265.000 to a subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare headed by the senator from new jersey expressly for the purpose of examining into all phases of this matter. including reinsurance. that that subcommittee has issued a very broad scale questionnaire to the pension funds of the nation and has arranged for the compilation of the replies. and the committee is heavily engaged in that  in finding out the very things the senator said need.to be found out before he can give a money estimate of what it would cost a year.
. such a reinsurance of a paperedover structure which is full of inequities. full of dangers. full of risks. full of speculations. would seem to me to be the most outrageous kind of irresponsibility. especially in view of the fact that we  have on going an effort to draw a piece of legislation which will include pension reinsurance that really means something.
that is unfair. i say to the senator. because the committee was given its money this spring. after making an excellent case. after hearings. that there was basis upon which to frame legislation. it is running. as i have said. one of the most intelligent. thorough. and efficient surveys of pension funds in this country. and it will really produce the basic material upon which congress will be able to act and upon which intelligent hearings can be held and in. telligent questions asked. we are always charged with this offthetopofourhead business. and that is the trouble with this amendment. yet. when we are trying to do a job. the senator would accuse us of  tending to our duties or of being superficial. we are trying to dig into something. instead of bringing some glittering amendment to the floor which does  have any basis in fact.
. the man who is putting up his money for pension funds will  be done any good by being provided the kind of federal insurance. that will fall on its face because every unsound and speculative plan in this country will be papered over. this kind of insurance would cover pension plans. regardless of whether they are properly managed. whether they provide vesting. or whether they are properly funded. the federal government would be underwriting it. and it would collapse of its own weight and be such a disaster as to make federal insurance impossible. if this is the improvident way in which we are going to do it. the senator hasmade many general statements. but he can answer the single question: what is the senators estimate of the amount of the premium charge required if we do exactly what he wishes to do in this amendment. nevertheless. the senator says there are many reports. and so forth. but he says: there are figures on that. i can tell you what this is going to cost. it seems to me that that immediately indicates that something is wrong somewhere. also. i think it is pretty reckless.
. i submit today two amendments to the ribicoffbennett proposed family assistance act (amendment  1097 to h.r. 17750). the amendments are designed merely to attempt to effect changes in the act consistent with the administrations own proposal. which has  been embodied in the ribicoffbennett amendment. first. i urge that families headed by fulltime working males who qualify for federal assistance under the proposed act-"the working poor"-be made eligible for state supplementary payments under the act. as they are for the federal cash payment. this is an essential step if we are to effect any true reform of the welfare system and provide an incentive to work for hundreds of thousands of recipients. in this amendment i am joined by the senator from oklahoma and the senator from south dakota . second. i propose that there be included in the child care provisions of the bill. a clear statement to ensure that the developmental needs of the child. as well as the ecoic needs of the parent. will 41584be respected as that program is administered. this amendment would merely write into law the objectives expressed by the administration. while i am proposing these additions to the ribicoffbennett proposal. i wish to indicate my general support for that proposal. i regard it as essential legislation for this session of the congress. i shall  outline each of these proposals in more detail.
. taking the administration at its wordwhich i dothis amendment will  add any expense to the cost of the child care provisions. however. if this step is  taken. it may well result in the deferred cost of future welfare generations.
this indicates that we can rely upon the treasury departments regulations or its interpretations of its regulations. but if we wish to act on this matterand they. themselves. have admitted its equitywe have to act on it by legislation. it seems to me. in all honesty and under the conditions we face. that we are in this situation: i am compelled. by the fact that we are driving through to the conclusion of this bill. to bring up this amendment even though i have  been able to get an answer in writing from the treasury department as to the reasons for this change in the position they previously related to me. i have had to depend upon a phone call. i would hope very much that. under the circumstances. the chairman could see his way clear to take the amendment to conference and unravel it there. the best we have been able to get from the treasury department. is that they have  adequately expressed their view or that they have found something in their regulations that causes them to change their view. there is question about the equity involvedthat. insofar as the pensioner in this type of pension plan is concerned. if an increase in social security will leave him better off. because his private pension income will be correspondingly reduced. we give it to him with one hand. and private pension plans take it away with the other. the treasury department has the ability. under the tax law. to deal with this. because they determine what is deductible for income tax purposes so far as pension contributions are concerned. so i think that the fair thing to do would be to take this amendment to conference and unravel the situation. the treasury said on december 16. 1970. that it is the right thing to do. that they are going to do it. and that my amendment is unnecessary. within a week. they backtrack to reduce the force of their own letter by approximately threequarters. that is our own estimate. that is what it results in. i believe. therefore. that since this is a very equitable matteras they. themselves. have recognizedwe should. at long last. enact into law the substance of the treasury department position as originally expressed. and have our own confereeswho i am sure will feel as solicitous as i do about retirees who have both forms of coverage. both private and public. in social securitywork it out in a way which would be equitable and fair. especially in view of the fact that the treasury department itself has conceded the main point. i reserve the remainder of my time.
the senator is stretching the rubber band a long way when he says it will be a precedent. i am confining this amendment to private pension plans. private pension planners should  have the benefit of this windfall. that is all i argue.
. i am pleased to introduce the administrations proposed 2year extension of the programs under the ecoic opportunity act. without this extension. the authorization for these vital programs would expire on june 30 of this year. i introduce this measure on behalf of myself. senator williams. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. senator nelson. chairman of the employment. manpower. and poverty subcommittee. and senators case. cran-
there is one important point of substance which the senator may or may  choose to answer. but i would hope that he could answer it in the affirmative before we are through with the debate. which is this: in view of the fact that we are passing emergency legislation. and in view of the fact that the presidents bill is permanent legislation. would the senator feeland i do  expect him to answer this before thinking it over. he may speak about it laterthat this bill should be accommodated to the presidents bill. as we are in the process of passing it. rather than the other way. in other words. as that is a permanent law and thi. is a temporary law we could tailorbecause it would come out of our committee on labor and public welfare anywaythe permanent law to suit this measure. in the sense of  running counter to it. but it would be in appropriate. if we were satisfied that the permanent law did everything that ought to be done in this field. to phase this out without the greater whole. to wit. permaent law. taking over the part. so it would be a substantive point. when the senator says he will do his utmost. and i wish to make it compatible. it is a substantive point as to whether we make this compatible with the presidents bill. in which case this would run its course. the other being tailored to suit this. or whether we make the presidents bill compatible with this program. in which event we could end this. in view of the fact that we would have a permanent piece of legislation.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record. in addition to the material concerning the pension study which has already been offered for the record. a brief summary of the major provisions of my bill . as well as the full text of it.
. i speak as the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare which reported this bill. i participated very actively in the development of the pending bill. and so feel that i should have made the opening statement yesterday. unfortunately. however. i necessarily had to be in my home state and was unable to do so. hence. i wish to make the statement today especially since i was literally the nexus of the negotiations which resulted in the agreement between the administration. the senator from rhode island . the chairman of the.education subcommittee. and the senator from minnesota
but. . in this connection. i might add that even the amount requested by the administration for recreational support programs may  be adequatesince the program will reach only 1.900 children or less than 1 percent of the 4.000.000 children ages 8 to 13 in families below the poverty line. i submit. therefore. that as this matter is considered by the senate. we may wish to consider whether a further portion of the aggregate amount which we seek might be earmarked or designated for the recreational support program. i ask that there be printed in the record the following: a letter dated april 16. 1971. from the league of citiesu.s. conference of mayors confirming the need for these amounts. the letter dated december 4. 1970. from the league of citiesu.s. conference of mayors documenting the need on a citybycity basis. a letter date april 14. 1971. from the national alliance of businessmen. a letter dated april 15. 1971. from the office of ecoic opportunity. a letter dated february 17. 1971. from the secretary of labor. mr. hodgson. and a department of labor release dated april 9. 1971. describing the administrations requests and its effect in the various regions of the country.
. it is  part of public law 91230. i thoroughly agree with the senator from new jersey. i have served on the appropriations committee. and i have run into the brick wall just as he did. i did it in connection with something called the teachers corps. we may recall that we had to reject the conference report in that case. it is unlikely that we will reject this conference report. however. that is the only way we can ever get any redress in.this kind of a situation where the appropriations committees of both houses in a sense. because of the conference report. just cancel out what congress has done. the only remote excuse. is that of priority. in other words. there is one priority which exceed aher. however. when we appropriate over $600 million for impacted areas and then. refuse to allow 10 percent of that amount to the cities. withstanding the fact that there is just as much grave question about the entire $600 million as there is about the $60 million by the impassioned person who might argue for or against it. it does  provide equity. it would seem that the only way the cities have in which to protest is by our rejecting the conference report. however. that action would be unlikely to be successful at this time. many would question why for a matter of $60 million we might reject an excellent conference report. i am the ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare committee which is the authorizing committee. i think the conferees did an excellent job. however. looking at the mptter from the point of equity and seeing how the cities will ever get redress. we find that there is a kind of rural bias and people tend to think that the only good things hapoen in the country rather than in the cities. that is shown by this action. there is  any hope for equity at this time. i thoroughly agree with the senator from new jersey. having learned the hard way. i think it is the only way to progress. i hope. as the dodgers used to say when they played in new york. "wait until next year." i say that we should wait until next year when we can gear ourselves up so that we will have an organized movement. which we do  have at the present time. to reject the conference report.
for myself. as the ranking republican on the labor and public welfare committee. i would be willing to take it to conference. with the understanding that as we have  had the opportunity to check it out even with the appropriate departments. the senator would understand that we will do our best to hold it. but it will be subject to checking out with all concerned.
. i have a question for the senator from georgia with regard to the pending joint resolution which incidently i favor very strongly. i believe my question will help resolve a problem which may have  been resolved completely in the other body. i hope the senator from georgia will help us to clarify the matter here. the question is whether this resolution requires that the secretary must continue to provide federal reimbursement for all the free and reduced price lunches served pursuant to income eligibility standards set by local school.authorities and approved by the state even if those local standards are higher than the secretary of agricultures "income poverty guideline." apparently a provision in section 5 of this resolution was stricken in the house and there seems to be some question whether the fact that it was stricken meant there was any design to eliminate that practice. which is apparently ongoing. or whether it was the intent to leave matters in that regard as they are and were before october 1. 1971. the manager of the resolution will help us emously if he can clarify that situation.
. it should be ed that four members of the miityi as ranking miity member and senators packwood. taft. and beallfiled supplemental views in respect of this bill. the reason for our filing supplemental views was our agreement with the bill. but within the limitation of the 2year period which we desired for it. the reason for that limitation is the statement of the administration that it intends to submit more comprehensive legislation. which will include this and other measures of critical importance to the wellbeing of our older citizens. it is a fact that this has been discussed before in comprehensive legislation and. therefore. we are very much for this bill which is sponsored by the senator from massachusetts and his associates. but still we felt the administration should have the chance to make good on its representation. and we also felt the pilot program. which has been discussed.  coming into maturity under this bill. should have 2 years to operate to demonstrate its practicality and effectiveness on a broader basis. we agree with the senator from missouri . who did such a fine job on the committee dealing with the aging. and the senator from massachusetts . on the need to go ahead with this. there are two other points i wish to call to the attention of the senate which commend this bill highly to the senate. first. aside from the social and mutual support which the aged give each other in these highly desirable programs. there is the selfrespect engendered by the fact there is authorized the charging of a fee under each state plan. which takes into consideration the income ranges of individuals eligible to participate. it is a fact that the charge would generally run about 50 cents to 65 cents per meal. that seems to be in the general competence of most of the aging and it gives them a sense of paying their way and it adds to the effect of the program and its effect on them. the other aspect of the program deserving of comment is the very grave problem which affects many of these programs. we have it  in connection with the poverty bill in the child development title. i refer to how a state shall be permitted to run these programs. i think this bill has a very admirable formula. it is a formula i have worked out with my colleagues to establish in committee. the bill states a fine criteria for a state plan and gives the state the first opportunity to develop a plan and operate it satisfactorily. but if the state does  develop a plan or does  operate it satisfactorily then the administrator is left free to use other means. other levels of government. even private agencies. for the purpose of seeing that a meaningful plan is developed and administered. it seems to me that that is really the right way in which to realize the best of federalism and  to incur the worst. i call that particularly to the attention of the senate because i hope it will be a model for other billsthere are many of themin which we can solve this particularly serious question. for all these reasons. i commend the bill strongly to the senate and hope that it will  pass
. the establishment of such programswith emphasis on local decisionmaking. parental involvement and developmental. as opposed to custodial serviceswas identified as the top priority for the next decade by the white house conference on children. held almost exactly a year ago. this aspect of the bill has been the most debated and has contributed most significantly to the delay in reaching agreement in conference. while there has been general agreement on the need for a comprehensive system and for these programs. there have been wide gaps between the administrations desire on the one hand and those of the various conferees on the other. however. i wish to state emphatically and document specifically the fact that these gaps have been substantially closed. with significant deference to the administrations viewpoint in each case. specifically: with respect to charges for services. the conference bill meets the administrations request that free services be provided only to children in families having an income below the family assistance eligibility "cutoff" of $4.320 for a family of four. as provided in the house bill. the senate bill provided for free services up to the socalled lower living budget standard. established by the bureau of labor statistics at $6.960 for a family of four. the conference bill authorizes the secretary to establish the fee schedule above the $4.320 level. subject only to the limitation that the charge may  exceed 10 percent of the incremental family income between $4.320 and 15 percent of the incremental income between $5.910 and $6.960. there are limitations on fees which the secretary may prescribe above the $6.960 point. although i can say so officially. i have every reason to believe that the limitations in the $4.320 to $6.960 range are compatible with what may be anticipated as the schedule to be established under the family assistance act. with which the administration wishes this legislation to be consistent. with respect to the administrations related objective of allocating the greater portion of resources under the bill to the most disadvantagedessentially those below the $4.320 levelthe conference bill provides substantial means of meeting that objective: of the $2.000.000.000 that would be authorized in the first fully operative year. fiscal year 1973. $500 million is reserved for projects for lowincome persons. that is. children in families below the poverty level of $3.900 for a family of four. moreover. of the remaining amount allocated to the states. 65 percent must be used for children in families which are "ecoically disadvantaged." while that term includes families up to the $6.960 level. a number of provisions give the secretary authority to direct funds to the most needy segments. furthermore. the 65 percent is a minimum and the secretary may insure that a substantial portion of the remaining funds are applied to children whose families are in the category of welfare eligibles. with respect to prime sponsorship. the administration has requested latitude to designate states as prime sponsors where necessary to insure the high quality of programs. the administrations position is set forth in a letter dated ember 18. 1971. from secretary of health. education. and welfare richardson to gaylord nelson. chairman of the senate conferees. i ask unanimous consent that material portions of the letter be inserted at this point in the record.
. i want to make clear that as a principal sponsor. with senator mondale. of the child development title of the vetoed bill. i in way to intend to abandon it. i urge the committee on labor and public welfare to proceed with comprehensive child development " legislation at the earliest possible moment and i do  preclude it being added to this legislationif the parties can be brought together. however. i stress again our primary objective of e providing for the continuation of exist- ing programs and for the improvement of what can be improved. as ranking republican member of the committee i hope very much that the administration will work with us so that a bill meaningful to the poor may be quickly signed into law.
ial message transmitted to the congress on december 8. 1971. this bill. together with a companion measure introduced today by senator curtis on behalf of the administration. to amend the internal revenue code. to set vesting standards for private pension plans and to provide tax deductions for employee contributions to individual and group retirement programs. constitutes an important step forward by the administration in securing a basic reform and strengthening of the private pension system. it is the first timeand i emphasize thisthat any administration has committed itself formally to substantial reform of private pension plans. above and beyond proposing added disclosure and fiduciary standards for private retirement programs. the administration is. therefore. to be y commended for undertaking a significant e initiative and onewhich i hopewill i stimulate and promote a sound legislative policy for private pension plans. although i have reservations concerning certain aspects of the administrations e proposalswhich i will describe laterthe administrations pension initiative is timely. coming as it does in the midst of a comprehensive and thorough in_ vestigation under senate resolution 35 . by the senate labor subcommittee. of - which i am ranking miity member. _ into the employee benefit areaan investigation which already has had a profound impact with regard to alerting the government and the public to extensive inequities and inadequacies in the private pension system. i am pleased to be associated with the * chairman of the subcommittee. senator harrison a. williams. jr.. democrat of new jersey. in this investigation. the chairman and the subcommittee staff. both from the majority and the miity. have pursued this investigation with unusual zeal and diligence. and there can be little doubt that these efforts have been instrumental in generating close attention to the hardships caused to workers under private retirement plans and the critical need for enacting remedial legislation. i welcome the administrations recognition of the serious problems under employee benefit plans. and their endorsement of fundamental reform. hopefully. it will  be very long before the american worker gets the pension protection he needs and deserves.
. on december 15. 1971. my administrative assistant. frank cummings. delivered an address to the 17th annual conference of the national foundation of health. welfare. and pension plans. giving an overview. worthy of the consideration of every senator. of the problems which have arisen in the private pension industry. and an analysis of s. 2. my bill for the reform of the system. and the other various legislative proposals. i ask unanimous consent that the text of these remarks be printed in the record.
. i say this only to buttress the determination of our committee with regard to this matter. i hope very much and have every reason to believe that the labor and public welfare committee is going to haveand it has already had one hearinghearings and will give most urgent and high priority attention to this matter. i feel in good faith that it will do its utmost to report a bill. we all hope and pray that the parties will settle. however. we are told that they will  settle the matter unless we act. we have been absolutely told that in so many words by the secretary of labor. we have yet to call the employers and the union. we will do that. there is problem about their testifying. i rise today  in any sense of complaint or remonstrance. but to point out what the absence of generic legislation has done to us. it has put a great section of the country in a dreadful position. the losses are estimated to be billions of dollars in terms of commerce and trade and employment occasioned by this dispute. i had a delegation here from hawaii the other day and they told me vividly of the privation which they are undergoing. they told me that it is simply intolerable for our country. so i speak today only to emphasize. in the public domain. the urgent need for the highest priority for action on the proposed legislation
if the bill is referred sequentially to the committee on labor and public welfare and to the committee on the judiciary. does that mean that it will move from the committee on labor and public welfare to the committee on the judiciary and then will  move to the floor until it leaves the committee on the judiciary.
. i direct attention to a recently issued treasury department ruling. revenue ruling 71446. which. among other things. specifically prohibits taxqualified private pension plans integrated with social security from reducing pension benefits paid by the plan to retired employees by the amount of social security increases voted by the congress. the effective date of the ruling is march 31. 1972. and i ask unanimous consent that the pertinent ruling be printed at the end of my statement.
it will be recalled that in december of 1970. the senate passed by a voice vote my amendment to the then pending social security increase bill. which would have accomplished precisely what the treasury ruling  does. but the amendment died with the then pending social security measure. at that time. i indicated the substantial number of complaints that were being received from retired persons. disclosing that their pension benefits were being watered down by reason of the increased amount of social security benefits they were to receive. it was appalling to me and other senators that in these inflationary times. the result of voting social security measures was to deprive many retired employees. by reduction of his other pension income. of the very money needed to cope with the rising costs of living. in other words. what congress gave with one hand. the pension plan took away with the other. during the course of my inquiry into this procedure i was informed by former deputy assistant secretary of the treasury john s. an. that under the regulations of the treasury then existing. the social security "offset" practice to which i objected would  be permitted. and that any amendment to the internal revenue code was unnecessary. . i ask unanimous consent that deputy secretary ans letter of december 18. 1970. to me be printed in the record at this point.
because of this apparent reversal. i pressed for the adoption of my amendment and i was gratified that the senate saw things in the same light that i did. it  appears that the final chapter on this subject has been written by the new treasury ruling. and that any further amendment truly is unnecessary. i commend the treasury department highly for having taken this step. while. as we k. much more needs to be done to provide adequate pension protection to the workers of this country. it is heartening to see the attitude of growing concern on the part of our government officials. exhrbrr 1 rev. ruling 71446
. i introduce two amendments designed to improve the child care and certain related provisions of amendment  599. to h.r. 1. the welfare reform measure approved by the house. these are two of five amendments which senators mondale. cranston. tunney. and i are introducing today to amendment  559. each has the support of the principal sponsor of that amendment. senator ribicoff. the ribicoff amendment. in which each of us has joined. would substitute a new "family assistance" title for that contained in h.r. 1. the first of my amendments would require that child care provided under the welfare program be developmental in naturethat is. that it will meet the educational. health. and other needs of children. and that it is  alone custodial. the second would provide that a mother of a school age child between the ages of 6 and 13 would  be required to accept employment or training where it would necessitate her absence from the home during hours or periods when the child is  attending school. however. she would still be required to register for such activities. as under h.r. 1. so that she could be required to work when there is conflict and would become aware of other opportunities to be accepted at her option. in addition to senators mondale. cranston. and tunney. i am joined in these amendments by senators bayh.
. this is the year for pension reform. the new bill we introduce today meets all the problems of private pensions which have surfaced in recent years. and proposes solutions for them. and. we believe it has the support needed to pass.
. on monday. may 8. i testified before the house ways and means committee in its hearings on h.r. 12272. the administrations pension reform bill. as i am the author of the comprehensive pension reform bill pending in the senate. s. 2. as well as the coauthor of the recently introduced williamsjavits pension reform bill. s. 3598. my views on the bill pending in the other body may be of interest. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony be printed in the record.
. this situation indicates that ody is entitled to a free ride on a reputation. the fact that mr. nader has a reputation for being an advocate of honesty to consumers does  give him a license to distort this situation by labeling it a consumer fraud. because to do so can injure millions of workers. it is greatly unfair because a great deal is being done about this pension plan reform.
. the committee on labor and public welfare is due to report on s. 3419. the consumer safety act. on may 30. 1972. by arrangement between the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare and the chairman of the interstate and foreign commerce committee. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and public welfare may have up to and including june 1. 1972. to report.
the need for this new agency is clear. we were unable to work out any arrangement putting the essentials of this agency in hew that would have best served the consumer with all the changes made by the labor and public welfare committee. this bill  deserves the support of the senate.
. we must decide today. as we have had to do so many times in the past. whether to vote a substantial social security increase. amid cries that the size of such an increase is uanwarranted and will further alienate younger workers because of the increased contributions they must make. i do  suggest that private pension reform is a complete solution to this dilemma. but it certainly ought to be clear by  that without such reform. the burden on the social security system will continue to mount and eventually may result in discouraging private initia.tives and responsibility for participating and securing old age financial security. if we are to prevent this from happening we must act affirmatively on private pension reform and we ought to do it in this year.
one further point. the private pension system becomes the third leg of that stool. thirty million workers are involved. with about $140 billion to $150 billion in assets. so that. as i say. we begin to see the light at the end of .the tunnel.
i am grateful to the senator for engaging in colloquy. the senator and i k that in any piece of legislation that is passed that is as broad as this legislation we have to balance the benefit to the millions who are earning below the poverty level againstand i do  want to be invidious about thisthe thousands who might be harmed in the way the senator suggested. he has opted for the latter and i have opted for the former. i believe history bears out the fact that every time we have raised the minimum wage we have been faced with these arguments. they have  come true. . i would like to pursue this matter further. but for the moment i ask unanimous consent that i may suggest the absence of a quorum and then resume my speech.
. the american bar association has passed recently a resolution recommending the establishment of state and local ombudsmen. with experimentation on the federal level. s. 2200. which i have proposed. with senators kennedy. bayh. taft. and tunney. is currently the only bill before the senate which would provide such experimentation. it would establish in the legislative branch an office of administrative ombudsman to conduct demonstration ombudsman programs on a regional basis to deal with individual complaints against federal administrative action. particularly affecting the poor. the bill would also establish an ombudsman foundation to fund programs at the state and local level. it is my hope that the bill will be considered later this session by the subcommittee on employment. manpower and poverty of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. of which latter i am the ranking republican member. and that consideration will result in an advance in implementation of the concept on the federal level. to an extent comparable to the significant progress made upon the state and local level. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record the article by mr. frank. together with a sectionbysection analysis of s. 2200 and the recent report of the american bar association section of the administrative law ombudsman committee.
. in closing. ich subcontracts. i should just like to cite from the findeir funds for the any government ings of the senate labor subcommittees pension study with respect to the loss of or. its probably pension rights in the plans of two major for from fayette- aerospace contractors. ybe its more help case history number 38 ome of your new f luck. senator. this is a pension plan of a major aerospace from you about company. it was established in 1957.* the plan covers salaried employees only and has 36.903 active participants and 1.241 retired as of december. 1969. since the plan was established over 60.000 tart on getting employees have participated with more than disturbing ne- 20.000 employees having left the scope of and scientific the plan without entitlement to any benefit. s. 32 would re- over 5.000 of whom had more than five years e national sci- of service. ppropriate conering and scien- * the plan was in existence prior to 1957. e heads of the but in that year the changes in the plan encies involved. were so great for purposes of this study. it is or government considered to have been established in 1957.
subsequently said: . may i say to the senator. with respect to the matter of referring the pension bill to the committee on finance. that i am ascertaining  what that is all about. as i was  here yesterday because of religious reasons. it may be perfectly all right. i hope he will  adjourn the senate until i can get the matter concluded. as i have desire to appear discourteous. senator williams and i are the authors of this bill. i am the original author of itsome years back. it is a bill of very great importance. and it is a matter of great pride to me that it has been brought to this stage. so. if the senator will give me an opportunity. i do  want what i have said to appear invidious to the committee on finance.
at the most. we estimate that something under onefourth of the people who are allegedly covered by the pension plans get any material benefit from them. again. i deeply thank and express my greatest appreciation. and i am sure i express the commendation of american working people. to these five senators. senators griffin. hartke. ribicoff. harris. and nelson. who stood out against the insensitive tide which swept away this bill. the senator from new jersey and i have asked the leadership to put the bill on the calendar immediately. the way to act in a matter like this is to act when it is hot and people are thinking about it. and to repudiate what has been done. that is the only way to get effective action. i hope that the leadership will see fit to put this bill on the calendar and let the committee on finance make its case against a bill which has such emous and widespread support. i am delighted to see the chairman of the committee on finance in the chamber. and i would be pleased if he would do me the favor of replying. let the committee on finance make its case. let the committee on labor and public welfare make its case. let the senate decide while the matter is hot. while the american people are thinking about it. and have it clearly in view. and understand who is for it and who is against it. the fact that this will come before the election will be a good and salutary thing.
the result is. . according to information gathered by my staff. that 350 retired employees will be compelled to take a 12percent cut in their pensions. and 400 employees who are  yet retired and whose pension are vested. that is. employees who have rights to a pension. will receive absolutely hing. in addition. there are 96 active employees who have  earned vested pensions and they also will receive hing. let us e that a substantial number of the 400 who will be entitled to hing have worked for hickok for over 15 years. many over 25 years. and they are all older people. all of that is the result of the acquisition of this company by aher corporation. which determined to conduct a phasingout operation in the rochester company which had this pension plan. moreover. this was done  for any lack of earnings. in the 6 months ending december 31. 1971. it appears that tandys net income increased by more than onethird. income rose from $7.23 to $9.85 million. sales rose from $13.89 to $17.93 million. and it is interesting to e that in july of 1971 when tandy purchased hickok. tandys stock split 2 for 1. thus. the acquiring corporation. in fact. is doing better in the current year than it did in the previous year. it is a company with an appreciable income. in the millions. so here are 400 employees with absolutely hing and 350 already retired with cuts of 12 percent in their pensions. because congress has  yet provided. in an important way. for pension plan reform. i regret very much the decision of the majority  to take up this bill. if that is their decision. i can only express the hope that it will have high priority and early attention if we do come back in ember. and certainly immediately after the first of the year. when i am sure the senator from new jersey and i will introduce it again.
i wanted to express my appreciation. as the senator ks. welfare and pension fund reform has been a 5year labor for me.  joined by the senator from new jersey . i am grateful to the distinguished majority leader.
. starting with the 90th congress in 1967 and in each succeeding congress thereafter. i have introduced bills to protect the benefit rights of the over 30 million workers covered by private pension and welfare plans--plans with reserve assets of more than $150 billiongrowing at the rate of $10 billion annually and predicted to reach over $230 billion by 1980the largest aggregate of virtually unregulated money in the nation. it is. therefore. with pride and anticipation that i speak as principal coauthor of the williamsjavits pension and welfare plan reform bill. s. 4. introduced by the chairman today and referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. the williamsjavits bill is a major bipartisan legislative undertakingcosponsored by close to 50 percent of the senate last yearwhich takes as its basis the bills i have authored since 1967. it is identical to s. 3598. the bill which was unanimously approved by the senate committee on labor and public welfare in september of 1972. culminating 3 years of intense study and investigation by the senate labor subcommittee. the essential provisions of the bill are as follows: vesting: the bill assures that after 8 years of employment. a worker would have a forfeitable right to 30 percent of accrued pension benefits. this would increase at an annual rate of 10 percent to reach 100 percent after 15 years. workers age 45 or older on the effective date of the vesting requirements would be vested in service prior to such date in accordance with the foregoing vesting schedule. funding: pension plan managers would have to accumulate contributions at a rate sufficient to assure that unfunded benefit obligations could be paid in 30 years. federal insurance: every pension plan would be required to purchase federal insurance to guarantee the payment of vested pension obligations in the event of premature plan termination. portability: provision is made for an employee to take vested pension credits with him from job to job through a voluntary central clearinghouse fund administered by the labor department. fiduciary standards and disclosure: existing law is strengthened to provide safeguards against corruption and conflicts of interest and more adequate communication to employees concerning their plan. the design of these provisions was based on the principal findings of the senate labor subcommittee. these principal findings were: first. inadequate or existent vesting provisions which result in the denial of retirement benefits to employees upon termination of services. voluntary or otherwise. despite long years of employment. second. inadequate accumulation of assets in funds to meet obligations and payments to workers who are entitled to benefits. third. forfeiture of earned retirement benefits by employees resulting from voluntary or involuntary moves within an industry or geographical area. which restricts the mobility of the labor force. fourth. instances where employers have  achieved full funding status. but through circumstances often beyond their control. must terminate the plan without adequate resources for payment of benefits due. fifth. the lack of uniform requirements of conduct by fiduciaries and employers in the administration and operation of their pension funds which results in abuses and unsound practices which jeopardize the security of the assets and threaten the availability of funds for employees. sixth. employee participants  haying full comprehension of their rights and obligations under their participating pension plans because of inadequate communication to them in booklets or other format of details of plans. the distinctive approach of the bill can be most readily grasped by reference to the following key paragraphs from the committees report. [t]he [committee] was of the opinion that. based upon its findings. it would be unwise and impractical to propose either revisions or new provisions of law in patchwork fashion. it was convinced that the nature and extent of the problems determined to exist required one omnibus legislative proposal which would embody essential and indispensable reform.... the committee believes that the legislative approach of establishing minimum standards and safeguards for private pensions is  only consistent with retention of the freedom of decisionmaking vital to pension plans. but in furtherance of the growth and development of the private pension system. at the same time. the committee recognizes the absolute need that safeguards for plan participants be sufficiently adequate and effective to prevent the numerous inequities to workers under plans which have resulted in tragic hardship to so many. the committee has vividly demonstrated this need in public hearings. the bill reported by the committee represents an effort to strike an appropriate balance between the interests of employers and labor organizations in maintaining flexibility in the design and operation of their pension programs and the need of the workers for a level of protection which will adequately protect their rights and just expectations. in adopting this approach. the committee believes it has designed a bill. which. -like the national labor relations act. the wagehour laws and other labor standards laws. brings the workers interest up to parity with those of employers.
. i hope we can dispose of the resolution relating to the committee on labor and public welfare where this problem does  exist and then have the debate in some case where there is a problem. will the senator allow us to do that.
. on the urgent supplemental appropriation measure. i ask unanimous consent that mr. roy millenson. of the committee on labor and public welfare miity staff. may be present on the floor during its consideration.
it is  a matter of convenience to me. i am due to conduct hearings on the drug situation for the committee on labor and public welfare in new york. hearings are scheduled. witnesses are scheduled. and so forth. this is  a matter of personal convenience.
. as ed on pages 34 of the report on s. 1148. the members of the committee on labor and public welfare consider it desirable to amend the bill as i have proposed. as the changes made under this amendment. would also affect the associate director for international operations. who is under the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign relations. on which i serve. i brought this matter to the attention of the members of that committee in connection with their consideration of h.r. 5293. "the peace corps act amendment of 1973." the report on that bill (rept.  93161) by the committee on foreign relations cites the report language in this bill and contains a statement that the members of that committeeare in basic agreement with the above views and hope to join in a floor amendment to that bill or otherwise to accomplish their objectives. i have consulted also with the chairman of the committee on government operations and he has objections to this amendment. it is acceptable also to  of the subcommittee on human resources. the sponsor and manager of this bill. a cosponsor of the amendment. and to mr. beall. the ranking miity member of that subcommittee. as it is to all members as indicated in the report on this bill.
. so we joined forces and included everything in one bill. and it was passed by the senate. as a matter of fact. it was passed twice. once on september 20. 1970. and again on september 5. 1972. however. it never became law. because it never got anywhere in the other body. it was reported again by the committee on labor and public welfare on june 18. 1973. the fact that aher committee. the committee on labor and public welfare of which i am a memberindeed. i would be the ranking member but for our selfimposed rule against being the ranking member on two committeesis going into exactly this question and following on the report of the special committee. which was appointed. on management and budget. the senator from th carolina is implementing that report with s. 1541. a federal act to control expenditures and establish national priorities. this proposal which i havewhich has  been passed by the senate twicein my judgment and in the judgment of the chairman of the committee. the senator from th carolina . properly should be  considered by the committee on government operations. i have consulted with senator ervin. and senator percy. the ranking republican member. and they are entirely agreeable to the procedure i am proposing today. i have also consulted with senator mondale. with whom i have worked and who has given me his support. and he is agreeable to the procedure. he has  only agreed. but he has joined me. so the purpose would be to take title ii out of the bill and refer it. for practical purposes. because i shall send to the desk. when this amendment has been adopted. an amendment to the bill before the government operations committee. where. in my judgment. it  properly belongs as an element of the total subject. i feel it is a very important element. one which i hope to carry with the congressional budgetary procedures act of 1973. an amendment was adopted. at the behest of the majority leader. dealing with the status of the director and deputy executive director of the office established under title ii. i wish to advise the majority leader that i shall carry over his. amendment as a part of the measure. in other words. my measure. which  carries the amendment exactly as the majority leader has supported it. will be contained in the amendment before the committee. i think it will simplify the whole matter before the senate. i think it is much more likely that concentration on only one instead of two items will enable the bill to have a better opportunity for passage on a singletrack basis than if title ii were left in the bill. as there is  a perfectly proper place and way in which to consider title ii for definitive enactment into law through the government operations committee route. i am taking that route with the consent of the senator from minnesota . my staff tells me they have consulted with the leadership on this subject and there is objection to pursuing it this way. so i  seek action on the amendment.
a singular dedication to the public weal was manifested. of a most extraordinary kind. as everyone ks. we do  do these things ourselves. it is our staffs who are the heroes in the case. i wish to pay especial tribute to mike gordon. who is sitting beside me and is the miity counsel of the committee on labor and public welfare in respect to pension and welfare matters. to larry woodworth. from the joint committee on taxation. as well as the staff of that committee and the finance committee. and to mario o. special counsel to the labor committee. who for a very long time. until his health prevented him from active participation. was most active. his replacement. bob nagle. general counsel to the labor committee has provided great service as well. these. i think. were the major hands who did the job and put this together. and i think the american workers will be eternally grateful to them for such selfless and selfeffacing work. as to the collaboration of senator williams and myself. it goes beyond just being colleagues. it represented a deep commitment of friendship and understanding of the sort which makes being here and working so hard one of the most exciting experiences in my life. and i believe in the life of every senator. in addition. i would like to express my appreciation to each and every member of the committee on labor and public welfare. they all have participated constructively and vigorously in the bipartisan formulation of a comprehensive legislative approach to the deficiencies in private welfare and pension plans. the american people owe these senators a great debt of national gratitude for their contributions in bringing this historic bill to the floor. i would like to take this opportunity to identify the members of the committee on labor and public welfareall of whom have assisted in this pension reform effort. the other members of the committee of labor and publif welfare are* jennings randolph of west virginia. claiborne pell of rhode island. edward m. kennedy of massachusetts. gaylord nelson of wisconsin. walter f. mondale of minnesota. thomas f. eagleton of missouri. alan cranston of california. harold e. hughes of iowa. william d. hathaway of maine. peter dominick of colorado richard s." schweiker of pennsylvania. robert taft. jr. of ohio. j. glenn beall. jr. of maryland. and robert t. stafford of vermont. so. 
. i read the testimony of the professional engineers. which appears beginning on page 319 of part 1 on the hearings. and particularly the testimony of their lawyer. frank cummings. on pages 322 and 323 of part 1 of the hearings. to the effect that they would like to set up a pension plan run by the professional societies on a multiemployer basis. i would like to ask the manager of the bill if i am correct in my interpretation of 221(c) that this section is designed to permit engineering societies. and professional organizations of other types of employees similarly situated. to establish multiemployer pension plans on behalf of their members.
. am i correct in stating that. under this section of the bill. if an engineering society goes to an employer who already has a corporate pension plan for all of his employees. and if the engineering society persuades the employer to transfer that employers engineers out from under the employers own pension plan and into coverage under the societyrun multiemployer pension plan. the employer will then be providing pension coverage under "two plans considered as a single plan." and that qualification of those two plans considered as a single plan  becomes possible under this new section of the internal revenue code.
. i have one final question. i see that there are two sentences in this provision. the first sentence refers to comparability of contributions. and the second sentence seems to refer to comparability of benefits. i k that the engineering societies have a specific pension plan in mind. and so i wish to determine whether that particular type of pension plan is one which would meet the requirements of this section. assume that an employer already has a defined benefit plan. assume further that an engineering society has established a moneypurchase plan. where contributions are established. and the benefits are simply whatever is in an individual employees account when he retires. am i correct in stating that under those circumstances. section 221(c) would require that the two plans. considered as a single plan. meet the requirements only of the first sentence of the section. and that the second sentence of the section is included to deal with aher situationwhere both the society and the employer have defined benefit plans.
. i do  appreciate the interruption. if the senator would follow the rules of the senate i said exactly what i meant. boeing is a proper example. engineers lost their jobs because the united states went to some other engineering program. or buyers did  buy the product. or whatever the case might be. in any case. they lost their jobs. were separated. or in some other way found themselves outside of boeings pension plan. let us look at the first case: "taking the money out of his paycheck." anyone who has ever negotiated a labor contract ks that there are two parties on it. the employer has an interest in keeping the man on the job. and he is willing to pay something to keep a man on the job that he will  pay in hourly pay. that is why we have strikes involving pension plans. because the employer also has an interest. he wants a certain number of years of service. and he is paying more for that. that is why he does  put it in the paycheck. second. there is a problem about employees whose work phases out. or. because of some act of god. act of nature. or act of the u.s. government. they are out of a job before they can vest. that. for example. is why we have severance pay. that is a very different concept than vested pensions. the latter is a provision for retirement income. but we have lots of different kinds of payments. we have bonuses for production. if your produce over a certain minimum. we have profitsharing. and we also have pension plans. severance pay. and other forms of fringe benefits. our bill takes account of that situation. and it also takes account of the problems of high mobility workerssuch as engineersbecause among other things. it calls upon the secretary of labori refer to page 70 of the bill section 282 todevelop. in consultation with appropriate professional societies. business organizations. and heads of interested federal departments and procurement agencies. recommendations for modifications of federal procurement regulationsthis. of course. was intended to authorize the development of more adequate standards of protection against high forfeitures by aerospace scientists and engineers. as well as others similarly situated. thus initiativewhich i outlinedwas designed to meet a unique problem. but it should be realized that pensions are  severance benefits. and we can let the problems of high mobility workers dictate maximum standards on vesting for everyone. when what we are doing is setting the minimum floor respecting vesting. if an employer wants to do better by his employees. there is hing to stop him under this bill. but to take the whole bill and change it over to the system which the senator from washington wants to change it over to will result in doing the following: first. we will discourage.  encourage. the establishment of pension plans. and the whole theory upon which i. senator williams and others based our efforts was that we wanted more than 30 million workers covered. we want to encourage pension plans. and to encourage them you have to give the employer some little break. too. that means some continuity of employment. second. there is a law kn as de minimis. how much is a man going to vest if he has 1 years service. how much will be get out of his pension. by the time you get through keeping all those records and certifying them to the secretary of labor and the social security administration. and paying them out as $1.89 checks. you will wish you had never heard of pension plans. and every employer ks that. just as i have stated. so. for the practical reasons i have stated and those which have been argued by the senator from texas. we had to arrive at some kind of standard of vesting which made sense in the light of all those considerations.
i have been informed that in the basic metal. metal mining. and related industries. pensions are payable upon the permanent shutdown of a plant. facility. such as a mine or plant railroad. department. or subdivision thereof. to employees who are 55 years of age or older. if the sum of the age of the employee plus his years of service is 70 or more. or if. irrespective of his age. such sum is 80 or more. further. even though. on the shutdown date. an employee may  meet the requirements. his service continues to accumulate. and. if in the 2 years from the date the layoff starts. which may be earlier than and in anticipation of the shutdown. he qualifies under the rule. and he would. if the plan were in force. be granted a pension. the right to a pension under these circumstances does  become vested within the meaning of the bill since employee who quits his employment may become entitled to a vested interest unless there has been a permanent plant shutdown. after such a permanent plant shutdown has occurred and the employees pension has vested as a result. insurance coverage would of course apply under section 422(a). but sometimesperhaps oftenplant shutdowns and plan terminations may occur at the same time and under these circumstances insurance coverage would  attach because the vested pension had  been earned prior to plan termination. but in fact resulted from a plant shutdown which was coincidental with plan termination.
the answer is that this provision applies to plans operating here. that is the essential testthat is. is the plan a u.s. pension plan. if it is. then it would be applicable under this particular section to which the senator from wisconsin has replied.
. we have debated the basic principle which is involved under the jackson amendment. the results are in on that. if anything. it seems to me this amendment is less attractive even than that. which was based on giving vesting during the first 5 years upon severance or termination of employment. i will say this. or i would  have taken the time of the senate following the fine summing up of the situation by the senator from wisconsin : the senator from indiana has been a stimulant in this matter. i said it in my original presentation. i say it again. matter how the managers of the bill. including myself. become vexed over having to fight amendments. it is only his duty. he was one of the first on the scene with the effort to insure pension funds. he is pushing us hard on the matter of accelerating vesting time. i am sure he will push us either  or later on aher very difficult question which is the question of how to manage these emous pension assets with the greatest social impact. that is a very big problem. he will push us on portability or transferability of pension rights through a pension bank. he will perhaps push us on many other matters. i welcome it. but as far as i am concerned. this bill is a fine beginning. i believe that in terms of work and morale. and the regularization of competition between employers to provide greater assurance of oldage income. we are starting off in an extraordinary way. we have today quite a remarkable showing between the finance committee and the labor and public welfare committee on this subject. we can accept senator hartkes approach. however. i will  for a moment denigrate his effort. the senator is entitled to all of the credit in the world. however. we feel that we are  able to do what he wants.
. we do have provisions in the bill which give a full year of service for 5 months within the year worked. based on 80 hours of work a month. that would start in 1982. that provides a very fair measure of parttime work. it is only 20 hours a week. before that time. the matter will be subject to regulation by the secretary of labor. we think this is an adequate provision to take care of parttime work that should be recognized under pension plans. i believe the amendment should be rejected.
. i did  have the opportunity last night at the close of debate on s. 4. the pension reform bill. to extend fully my sense of appreciation to all those who were recxix1937part 24 sponsible for contributing to the passage of s. 4. however. as i did in opening debate on s. 4 on tuesday. i wish to express my great appreciation for the unfailing cooperation in working on this historic retirement security bill to the chairman of the senate labor and public welfare committee. senator williams. who was my partner and cosponsor. and to senators randolph. schweiker. and taft and the other members of the labor and public welfare committee. and. to the senators of the finance committee. senator long. its chairman. senator nelson who chaired the subcommittee and is also a member of the labor committee. and to senator bentsen. who authored the finance committee bill. all their efforts were vital in bringing about agreement on a bill which the senate has so overwhelmingly accepted. but reference to those who worked on this bill could possibly be complete without referring to the special miity counsel to the labor subcommittee michael s. gordon. who worked with me so closely in respect to this measure. his was a most creative and brilliant job and he has every reason to feel deeply gratified by the result. i want to pay tribute. too. to robert nagel who served senator williams in the same capacity as mr. gordon served me. to mario o. who worked on this bill for senator .silliams for a long time. and to larry woodworth. the most able counsel for the joint committee on internal revenue who made emous contributions to the result. finally. i wish to mention frank cummings. formerly my aa.  a practicing lawyer in washington. who was heavily responsible for the first draft of the bill in 1967. and worked closely with me to put the idea forward in legislation at its inception. and. to gene mittleman. miity counsel to the senate labor and public welfare committee. who carried on the work until mike gordon came on the scene.
all i was saying was that the law is right but the method of distribution may have to be reconsidered by the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. i can promise the senator that i am taking this deeply to heart.
. withstanding the fact that this is what has been colloquially called one of the hottest bills in congress. and a bill which passed this body unanimously. though it is an extremely complex measure. the leadership in the other body has annced that pension reform legislation will be put off until january of next year. of course. this decision was a great disappointment to all of us in the nation and the senate who have worked so hard and thus far successfully together to attempt to bring to fruition a meaningful pension reform law. this actionjudging by my mailwas even more of a disappointment to many american workers who were looking forward to enactment into law this year of the senatepassed pension reform bill. h.r. 4200. but i would like to make it clear to all those who have written me and have otherwise expressed their concern over the disposition of this vital legislation. that i still predict completed enactment into law by the early months of 1974if and it is a big ifthe workers affected  make themselves heard as they did to the u.s. senate for 2 years prior to passage of the bill there. while i do  minimize the problems. it is a fact that we had similar problems in the senate. but were able to work them out successfully. but it is important that we should mark the true significance of what has been transpiring before it gets imbedded in a congressional product. what i am referring to is the rather systematic effort on the part of opponents of this legislation to weaken it and dilute its effectiveness. that is a much more serious developmenteven than the delayand though  entirely unexpected. one which will have the most important and i feel adverse bearing on the future of private pension plans. before examining some of the major problem areas in the legislation that seem to be emerging. a few general observations about the recent lobbying tactics seem to be in order. after the senate bill was passed on september 19. an effort was seemingly mounted to convince the congress that the senate bill was unduly complex and replete with technical errors. it appears. however. that very little has been done so far to make the legislation less "complex" or to cure technical deficiencies in the senate bill. instead. indications of action so far have proceeded to create the very complex and formidable proposal charged against the senate bill by its opponents and to create new technical problems in place of the alleged old ones. thus. it is apparent that opposition to the senatepassed bill based on grounds of complexity and technical inadequacies was merely an indirect way taken by the opponents of the legislation who felt that the bill was too effective for them. the principal parts of the senate bill which have drawn the fire of its opponents seem to be those involving the treatment of multiemployer plans under the bill. the plan termination insurance program. the fiduciary standards. the portability program. and the provisions limiting tax deductions. i would like to comment briefly on these matters.
. i may respond to the senator that as i understand it the bill to which he refers was actually referred to the judiciary committee. and as far as we are concerned in respect of this measure. as it was an element. and has been continuously. of the socalled antipoverty program and also the office of ecoic opportunity. it went to our committee. any other committee could at any time have sought to assert jurisdiction and could have brought the matter to the floor if it had desired to do so. apparently there was desire to do so. i would appreciate it if the senator wculd advise me if he or any of his colleagues requested a hearing from the committee on labor and public welfare to which the bill was  referred. as i am  personally aware of any.
. for myself. i approve these amendments. i understand that all members of the miity on the committee on labor and public welfare have been asked about it. they are in town and k that this matter is coming up. senator taft is  in town. i am advised by staff that senator taft has objection. for myself. i do  see. from the nature of the amendments. that there should be any basis for any material objection. but each member must judge that for himself. i think that in substance. at this stage of the session. the miity. considering the accounting i have just given as to its members. would  interpose an objection as such to the senators motion. and i. personally. very much favor enactment of this measure. which i cosponsored.
. i am today introducing on behalf of the administration a bill to amend the federal food. drug. and cosmetic act and the fair packaging and labeling act. to improve the protection of the public health and safety. and to repeal the filled milk act and the filled cheese act. several senate committeesthe labor and public welfare committee. of which i am ranking miity member. the commerce committee. and the finance committeeare concerned with different provisions in the bill. i ask unanimous consent that the bill simultaneously be referred to the committees on labor and public welfare and commerce and that if and when reported by one committee. the other be given an additional 60 days to file a report on their version thereof.
. i ask unanimous consent that this bill as well as a communication from the department of health. education. and welfare on allied services act. be jointly referred to the committees on finance and labor and public welfare. i am informed by the staff that that has been worked out by the senator from utah .
. the congressional research service at the library of congress has completed a comparative analysis of the senatepassed and housepassed versions of h.r. 2. the pension reform bill. in view of the tremendous interest in this legislation i ask unanimous consent that the text of the congressional research service analysis be printed in the record.
. i am in a rather unique position to speak on this matter. i am considered to be. and i am proud to be. one of the principal sponsors of the jackson amendment which has already been mentioned here. i believe that i was the first one to broach the idea in a speech in new york 2 years ago. that this issue of morality had to figure in the trade relations with the soviet union. i believe that today. i believe that .it should be possible to get from the soviet union commitments which will make us feel that the soviet union is  going to be as reactionary and as persecuting of its miities and its intellectuals as it has been up to . and that that is a critical element in the trustworthiness and desirability of the whole range of agreements to be made between our countries. however. i would like to leave room for that to be worked out. if it can be worked out. it may have to stand fast. however. certainly. we should try to work it out and  abort the whole process by an amendment like this. the senator from colorado has stated his opinion. we both serve on the labor and public welfare committee and have always served there in harmony. we have always had great respect for each other. i hope it will always be that way. there are those people who do  want to do anything for the u.s.s.r. they say that they will use everything we give them against us. on the other hand. my attitude and the attitude of others like me is that we have got to give something. if one wants to get something. he has to 4give something in order to get something back. it is a tradeoff. and the trade and the possibility of trade are important factors which should be used in these negotiations. i do  want to abort their use. so i have to oppose the amendment. finally. the senator from wyoming is exactly correct. it is just aher way of killing off the bill. there is grave fear that the trade bill. which is a much bigger proposition. is going to be killed off by the arguments with respect to the soviet union referred to in the jackson amendment. and so forth. how much more likely is it that the ida bill will be killed off if we tack this amendment on its back. i hope. for all of those reasons. that the senator from colorado will  press the matter.
i thank my colleague. i have a question of senator long. i join with senator mondale in the approval of what was basically done. that is  1. second. i think the reallocation provision is very constructive. we fought for that for a year. we could  get it. and so much money needs to be allocated. about $1 billion a year. but it really is a measure of justice which has finally been consummated. . i shall vote for adoption of the conference report on h.r. 17045. the social services amendments of 1974. withstanding certain reservations. so as to provide a new legislative framework for social services programs. rather than to start all over again next year. introducing new elements of uncertainty into a situation which has been "up in the air" for too long. the conference agreement is basically a sound proposal in terms of social services deriving a number of provisions from the house bill. which in turn meet the objectives of s. 4082. the social services amendments of 1974. which senator mondale and i introduced with a number of other senators on october 3. these provisions include increased flexibility on the part of the states in the choice of services. relaxed eligibility requirements. and a number of other provisions designed to make it more possible to reduce welfare dependency. without sticking so strictly to welfare eligibility standards as the administrations proposed regulations had proposed as to be counterproductive. similarly. i am pleased that the conference report retains the provisions in the senate passed bill providing for reallocation of funds from states which do  use allocations to states. like my state of new york. that have great needs. have been put in a straightjacket under the very prejudicial allocation formula imposed under the $2.5 billion social services ceiling. since 1972. new york state has been held to $220 million per yearagainst needs of approximately $800 millionwhile unused funds have ranged from $700 million to $1 billion nationally over each of the last 2 years. this conference bill would correct that through reallocation provisions similar to those i have fought for over these years. expressed most recently in s. 4119. the emergency. social services amendments of 1974. which i introduced on october 10. i am. however. deeply concerned about the provisions of this legislation that relate to child care standards. most deeply troublesome are the provisions that would raise the ratio of adults to children from the current 1 to 10 ratio contained in the federal interagency day care requirements. to a ratio of 1 to 15 for children age 9 or younger. and to a ratio of 1 to 20 for children aged 10 to 14. the implications of this ratio increase are quite severe given the experience we already have with federal programs that have  been subject to standards. so i would like to ask the senator whether there is anything in the report which would prevent a city. a state or some other political subdivision or an individual or other charitable contribution from trying to add and supplement for the lack of care which may result from the application of this new standard which. by the way. is a minimum standard. and i just want to be sure that there could be fed into it improvement from governmental or private sources.
. by consent obtained from the interested parties through my office. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be referred to the committee on labor and public welfare and if and when reported from that committee. that it then be referred to the committee on commerce.
. by authority of the chairman. senator williams. i annce that the committee on labor and public welfare has scheduled a hearing on tuesday. may 20. 1975. at 1:30 p.m.. in room 4232. dirksen senate office building. on the ination of lowell w. perry. of michigan. to be a member of the equal employment opportunity commission.
 next week for this signature so that the benefit payments to longterm unemployed individuals will  be interrupted on june 30. i wish to thank my colleagues on the labor and public welfare committee and particularly my colleague.  of the employment. manpower. and employment subcommittee of the labor and public welfare committee and the senator from new jersey
. i ask unanimous consent that gregory fusco. of the staff of the committee on labor and public welfare may have the privilege of the floor during the consideration of the higher education appropriation bill.
. i am pleased to introduce at this time for myself. the distinguished senator from maryland . who is ranking miity member of the subcommittee on aging. senator harrison a. williams. the distinguished chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. senators schweiker. ribicoff. buckley.
 rockefeller. and the "summary of changes from the allied services act of 1974." a summary of the proposed act also follows: i ask unanimous consent that these items be printed along with the bill in the record. i also ask unanimous consent that the bill be referred jointly to the committee on labor and public welfare and the committee on finance.
. i am pleased. to have been associated with this legislation both in the labor and public welfare committee and through conference. i commend it to my colleagues as worthy of most favorable consideration.
i think the question by senator byrd is entirely proper and well taken. senator proxmire has answered it and i thoroughly subscribe to his answer as to the federal legislation.  i would like to move to the city and state because that. too. is important. here are the builtin guarantees. the state is on the hip. as the saying goes. for a minimum of $800 million. and the state is in very grave danger itself. it will pull out. its resources are much broader. its liabilities are much less pressing. in the same sense. as new york city. i think it still has some credit. and this will enable it to have a shred of credit. anyhow. but it is on the $800 million in actual outgrowth. first. the state board is an excellent one. it has some very good people. felix rohatgn has done a great job. the gover himself has come out of this with tremendous luster. and men like william ellinghaus. who is president of the new york telephone co. and other distinguished men. hobound to look after the state. let alone the city. because if the city defaults again the state is the one that will be the biggest loser. second. the banks. which are  on for 10 years. do  have any shortterm base anymore. third. the city of new york. look at what they have put up. $2.5 billion out of their union funds. and they have taken a freeze in pay and a reduction in takehome pay because of the fact that they are  contributing to the pension funds. which was a mandatory requirement. then the state legislature will be very vigilant here. it does  want to pick up aher section for new york. but last and very important is the business community of the city itself. take a look around new york. with $100 billion worth of real estate. that business community is the highest taxed in the country and they are very deeply invested in new york. it is very hard for them to get out and we will make herculean efforts to keep them there. i have talked about government employees and the pension funds. . we have 1 million private employees  connected with government who are represented by the central trades and labor council. the head man of which is named harry van arsdale. they have lost half a million jobs. that whole aggregation in the last 6 years. they are going to be bulldogs on seeing new york does  slip back. finally. in order to balance the budget. new york is going to have to reduce its establishment emously and we can expand an establishment even if we wanted to. having accepted all the restrictions and commitments and being locked in as we are by the state. by workers. by the federal government. it just can be done. this could prove to be a blessing to my city. it may very well  be finally on a road that will cause it to have a great renaissance. it was running down before this. as anyone ks who just has to go to see many neighborhoods in new york city itself. this may give it.  that it is breathingi think that is the only way to put ita chance in which the business community. the working community of new york. can make good. if we can do it. i would like to say to my colleague. this is a very good investment for the united states. we are one of the most productive entities for the production of federal taxes of anything this country has and one could  replace us. if we go down the drain. you will  replace us. if we become a drawdown instead of a payin. we will  be replaced for a quarter of a century.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article i coauthored with senator williams that appeared in the new york times on february 29. 1976 which addresses the arguments made by critics of pension reform along with two supporting letters from readers of the times and a february 24. 1976. article that appeared in the milwaukee journal business news concerning erisa administration.
. one of the major questions raised in this report is what happens to the governmental powers of states and municipalities in a bankruptcy. the doctrine of preemption and exclusivity in bankruptcy is very clear. but the doctrine also runs into the other doctrine of the tenth amendment to the constitution respecting the integrity of the states and the sovereignty of the states in the way in which our government is organized. therefore. specifically. i ask my colleague. the manager of the conference report. respecting the interpretation of section 83 which seeks to reserve state power to control governmental functions of political subdivisions. that is its title. this question may relate to other functions of the state. but i am going to confine it to one function which will be illustrative and also make the legislative history for the particular function i have in mind. the question is this: assume that this bankruptcy provision. which we are adopting tonight. is availed of. then what happens to the individual pensioner of the subdivision of a state or of a state itself. or the one whose rights have been vested for a pension under state law or appropriate local law. may that pension or the vested right to a pension be dealt with in this bankruptcy proceeding in such a way as to change or modify it substantively. in my state. for example. the constitution in article v. section 7 states as follows: after july 1. 1940. membership in any pension or retirement system of the state or of a civil division thereof shall be a contractual relationship. the benefits of which shall  be diminished or impaired. that is the state constitution. the section in question seeks. i believeof course. the senator from th dakota will give us the answerto preserve that right by its language which reads as follows: hing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit or impair the power of any state to control by legislation or otherwise any municipality or any political subdivision of or in such state in the exercise of its political or governmental powers. including expenditures thereof. provided. however. that state law prescribing a method of compensation of indebtedness of such agencies shall be binding upon any creditor who does  consent to such composition and judgment shall be ordered under such state law which will bind the creditor to such composition without his consent. the meaning. it seems to me. clearly. then. of that sectionand that is what i would like the confirmation of the senator aboutwill preserve the right of an individual pensioner drawing his pension so that it will  be subjected to the bankruptcy act and one whose pension is vested in terms of the state law or state constitution  being affected by the bankruptcy of that particular governmental entity.
. at this time with senator moss of utah. we would like to submit our amendment to s. 3136. the food stamp bill reported by the senate agriculture committee. our amendment provides an extra deduction of $25 per month for households that earn $100 a month or more from gainful employment or a member of the household 60 or over. thus. working households would receive. in addition to the $100 standard deduction provided in the committee bill. an extra $25 deduction. we believe this amendment is necessary for several reasons. first. the standard deduction provided in the committee bill is just that: "standard." every household is entitled to itas they should beregardless of whether they earn income from gainful employment or . of the 5 million households currently participating in the food stamp program. about 1.3 million contain a working person. the bill lumps all these households together and "standardizes" their deduction at $100 per month. there is difference between a family earning $6.600 in aftertax income and a family receiving $6.600 in welfare. and if the working household earns $6.701 in net income. it does  qualify for food stamps. we can agree with penalizing the working poor by treating earned income the same as unearned income. as our good friend and colleague from the state of kansas. senator dole. pointed out so persuasively in his article in the washington post  long ago. a family of four receiving monthly income just $25 below the poverty line qualifies for over $575 in annual food stamp benefits. if it earns just $25 more a month. it loses all its food stamp benefits. and thus is worse off than it was before taking the job. this scenario is just  consistent with our spirit of enterprise and our american ethic.  we understand that the system under which deductions are itemized can. and has. led to some abuses. this is why senator javits food stamp bills. 2840eliminated itemized deductions and allowed a standard deduction. but my bill made certain that working familiesthose who refused were struggling hard to make ends meet in this precarious ecoic environmentwere encouraged to keep their jobs and maintain their selfconfidence and faith in our free enterprise system. this is why my original bill provided the extra deduction for these "working poor" families. we might add that that blil was the only one of the many submitted that envisaged the great need for such specific encouragement. the second reason why we believe this amendment is needed is because s. 3136. in providing a standard deduction of $100 per month as an alternative to the itemization in the current program fails to continue any current program which under that was added to the itemized deduction for medical expenses. school tuition. support and alimony payments. unusual casualty expenses. et cetera. "work expense allowance."--1 percent of gross earned income up to a maximum of $30 monthly. our amendment would replace the $30 monthly by allowing an extra $25 monthly where there is a ordinary situation adding income in the household or person over 60. we might add that $25 does  really compensate the working poor for all their workrelated expenses. as a matter of fact. daily commutation on the metrobus in washington. d.c.. and only 45 cents each day for lunch comes to $25 per month. our point is simply that we must attempt to accommodate these necessary minimal work expenses that are incurred by households doing the very best they can. the last reason why we believe the extra $25 deduction is necessary is that we think it can be potentially costfree. estimates of the budget cost of this deduction vary between $125 million and $180 million. depending on assumptions. the problem with these computer calculations. however. is that they fail to consider the longterm effects of making it possible for people to afford their workrelated expenses. keep their jobs. pay their taxes. and soon go off the food stampor other governmentprogram completely. in an excellent article in the new york times on sunday. september 28. 1975. kenneth schlossberg. former staff director of the senate select committee on nutrition and human needs. pointed out that for every 1 percentage point increase in unemployment. an additional 500.000 to 750.000 persons use food stamps. thus. if we really want to keep down the costs of the food stamp program we ought to be doing everything we can to keep americans at work. and one of the things we can do is allow them an extra deduction to accommodate workrelated expenses. let us conclude by emphasizing that this amendment fills a real gap in the agriculture committees bill. it places muchneeded focus on the importance of keeping our workingpoor in our free enterprise ecoic system.  outside of it. i ask unanimous consent that this amendment be printed in the record.
the labor and public welfare committee is currently considering amendments to the public service jobs program under title vi of the comprehensive employment and training act. which would provide additional public service employment opportunities for unemployed workers exhausting their entitlement to regular unemployment benefits. however. even if that legislation were to provide for one million public service employment opportunities. it would  begin to create egh jobs for the longterm unemployed who do  have the resources to provide for themselves and their families. if our ecoy. in either the public or private sector. is unable to employ those workers who are ready. willing and able to work. it is imperative that we at least continue to maintain unemployment assistance benefits at current levels and provide a viable alternative to public assistance. in addition to continuing the fsb program for an additional year. the bill that we are introducing today would also institute a new national trigger for the first 13 weeks of benefits under that program. the fsb program is currently triggered on and off solely on the basis of the statewide level of insured unemployment. in order for unemployed workers in a state to be eligible to receive maximum entitlement under the. fsb program of up to 26 weeks of additional benefits. the insured unemployment rate in the unemployed workers state must equal or exceed 6 percent. these trigger requirements were added to the fsb program last june when congress considered legislation extending and modifying the fsb and sua programs. when these amendments were adopted by the congress. i expressed my reservations about the potentially harsh and inequitable impact of the new trigger requirements. at that time i said: i am wary of the potential impact of the trigger requirements for the fsb program adopted by the finance committee and approved by the senate and the conferees. there is. in my judgment. danger that certain states which have relatively low statewide unemployment. as compared to the rest of the nation. will trigger out of some or all of the fsb program next january 1 (1976). some of those states may well contain large metropolitan areas suffering significant unemployment. and central city areas where unemployment overall may continue to run as high as 10 to 15 percent. even though unemployment in the state as a whole is much lower. to deprive unemployed workers in those areas of the benefits provided by this act at a time when they may well be experiencing as much difficulty in obtaining employment as similarly situated workers in states with higher overall unemployment concerns me deeply.  that the triggers adopted last june have been in place for 3 months. i am sorry to report that the fears i expressed last year have come to fruition. workers in the following 12 states and the district of columbia are eligible to file new claims under the fsb program at all: colorado. district of columbia. indiana. kansas. louisiana. mississippi. nebraska. ohio. oklahoma. south dakota. texas. virginia. and wyoming. in the following 10 states. workers are entitled to receive only onehalf of their full entitlement to fsb benefits because those states have statewide insured unemployment rates of between 5 and 6 percent: delaware. florida. georgia. iowa. new mexico. th carolina. south carolina. utah. th dakota. and new hampshire. the inequities of the trigger system adopted last june for the fsb program are quite apparent. although the insured unemployment rate in a given state may be low overall. metropolitan areas within the state may be experiencing considerably higher unemployment levels. many of our poorest workers. who live in central city areas. are likely to have still greater levels of unemployment. for a worker in a central city ghetto in one part of a large state. it is little comfort to be told that he or she is being cut off from unemployment assistance benefits because jobs are readily available in aher part of the state several hundred miles away. the situation in ohio exemplifies my point. unemployed worker there is  entitled to file a new claim for any benefits under the fsb program because the statewide insured unemployment rate of 4.91 percent has triggered the program off. nevertheless. workers in many areas of ohio are experiencing high unemployment rates. in cincinnati the total unemployment rate in january. according to the bureau of labor statistics of the department of labor. stood at 10.4 percent. at the same time. workers in other areas with lower unemployment rates remain eligible for fsb benefits. i recognize. however. the support for a trigger mechanism to provide longer durations of benefits in those states where the overall need for them is the greatest. and have determined  to propose the abandonment of the trigger mechanisms adopted last june. rather. the bill we are introducing would add a new national triggerat a level of 4.5 percent insured unemploymentwhich. when met. would provide that the first half of the fsb programup to 13 weekswould be triggered on in all states. the second 13 weeks of fsb benefits would continue to be governed by the trigger adopted last junerequiring at least a 6percent insured unemployment rate. statewide. in order for workers in that state to be eligible to receive those benefits. in addition. the bill that we are proposing makes a number of other necessary changes in the fsb and sua programs. first. it provides for a change in the method of computation of the insured unemployment rate. upon which the triggers for the fsb program. and the federalstate extended benefits program. as well. are based. under current practice. the only persons counted as unemployed for the purposes of calculating the insured unemployment rate are those actually receiving regular or extended unemployment benefits. workers who have exhausted their entitlements to those benefits and still can find jobs. even those currently receiving fsb benefits. are  counted among those unemployed in calculating that rate. the effect of this practice is that. particularly during periods when many workers are suffering prolonged periods of unemployment. the iur does  adequately reflect the number of persons covered under the regular unemployment insurance system who are currently unemployed and seeking work. to remedy this serious defect in calculating the insured unemployment rate. we are proposing that the number of persons counted as unemployed include an estimate of the number of persons who have exhausted their entitlement to benefits under the regular unemployment insurance program and the extended benefits program. but who remain unemployed and are seeking work. it is necessary that this figure be estimated because neither the department of labor  the state unemployment insurance administrators maintain accurate records of the number of such exhaustees who remain unemployed and in the labor force. i e that this modification of computing the insured unemployment rate was also incorporated in the emergency unemployment compensation act of 1971. a predecessor of the fsb program. in this connection. i urge both the department of labor and the responsible state agencies to consider methods by which such data may be more accurately gathered so that we may have a clearer understanding of the number and ecoic characteristics of unemployment insurance exhaustees. such information as is available regarding such exhaustees indicates the need for the amendments we are proposing today. a recent study sponsored by the department of labor of unemployment insurance exhaustees reports thatextending benefits keeps many individuals above the poverty line. without such extensions. nearly 40 percent of white exhaustees would have incomes below the poverty line. whereas with extensions only 10 percent do. for black and other miity workers. the effect is even more dramatic. there. fully 55 percent of exhaustees have incomes below the poverty line when benefits are terminated. as opposed to 21 percent when they are continued on unemployment assistance. this study also shows that. 4 months after exhausting their benefits. threefourths of the workers were still out of work or had dropped out of the labor force. i ask unanimous consent that two tables from this study. showing the percentages of those unemployment insurance exhaustees whose incomes are below the poverty line. and those who remained unemployed. printed in the recoin at this point in my remarks.
the bill that i am proposing also contains provisions making available additional unemployment assistance benefits under the fsb and sua programs for unemployed workers who have otherwise exhausted their entitlement to unemployment assistance. and who are participating in approved programs of job training or retraining. under the fsb amendments adopted last june. fsb recipients who are determined by the appropriate state unemployment assistance administrator to be in need of job training or retraining are required to apply for. and participate in. available training programs. under section 3304 (a) (8) of the internal revenue code. the permanent unemployment insurance law. workers voluntarily participating in job training programs approved by the state unemployment insurance administrators are exempted from the "seeking work." "availability for work." and "disqualification for refusal to accept work" requirements of the law. the amendment that i am proposing would provide that. when an unemployed worker is participating in an approved job training program. and that worker exhausts his entitlement to unemployment assistance under the fsb or sua programs. he or she would be eligible to receive up to 13 weeks of additional unemployment assistance to permit him to complete the course of job training which he has begun. this amendment is but aher small step toward the desirable goal of integrating our unemployment insurance and manpower development systems. this country is certainly far short of the approach adopted in other countries. such as germany and france. of providing training and education courses as a matter of right to the unemployed with financing through the unemployment insurance tax mechanism. the federal response to the recession. in terms of assisting unemployed individuals. has essentially been limited to expansion of the unemployment insurance system on an ad hoc basis and the addition of only a few public service jobs. education and training stand virtually at prerecession levels. in my judgment. recessionary periods. such as we are experiencing today. should be used to increase the education and skill level of the work force. and to maximize the possibility of funding jobs. preliminary reports indicate that the requirement for fsb claimants to register for available training slots has had practically effect. a thorough review of this matter should be undertaken. and i am pleased to e that such institutions as the national commission for manpower policy and the national manpower institute have begun to give it serious consideration. in addition. this bill provides. on a prospective basis. for the financing of fsb from general revenues. i concur in the views expressed by the senate committee on finance last yearreport  94200)-that it is inappropriate to expect the repayment of advances to the trust fund from the federal unemployment tax. finally. this bill provides for financing. through the sua program. of the cost of unemployment insurance coverage for public service employees under the comprehensive employment and training act. in 41 states and the district of columbia these employees are already covered under sua. however. in nine states which havecommendablycovered public employees under their permanent unemployment compensation laws. the cost of coverage must be financed by the ceta prime sponsors. this operates unfairly to reduce the number of jobs which could otherwise be provided out of the allocation of funds under ceta. our provision will bring the funding of such unemployment insurance coverage under one source. in closing. . the federal supplemental benefits program originated in legislation reported by the finance committee. and the special unemployment assistance program was initiated by the committee on labor and public welfare. in june 1975. legislation to improve and extend these programsreported as h.r. 6900was referred jointly to both committees. in light of this precedent. and the inherent interrelatedness of these emergency programs. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be referred jointly to the committee on labor and public welfare and the committee on finance.
. a letter to the editor appeared in tuesdays edition of the new york times which poses questions the senate must address. "day care catch 22" raises important longrange concerns which. i hope. will be brought before the senate in the near future. the problem of ceta reauthorization is presently being considered by the subcommittee on employment. poverty and migratory labor of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. it is anticipated that shortly the full committee on labor and public welfare will have a bill for reauthorization of public service employment before it. problems remain for some prime sponsors whose funds will expire before june 30. 1976. but it is hoped that an emergency supplemental appropriation bill will be passed to enable those prime sponsors to continue their programs through june 1976. before then. a bill authorizing 1 million public service jobs for local projects of 1year duration will have been considered by the congress. this will continue the present programs with additional funds authorized to develop local projects through fiscal year 1977. if we do this quickly. peter aviles will have his question answered. the problem of day care eligibility has long been a concern of congress. as presently constituted. income eligibility as a criteria works as a disincentive to work. the question of welfare reform has been raised many times before this body. recently. i introduced s. 3000. tax credits and allowances act of 1976. which approaches the problem of work disincentives from many angles. and comprehensively reforms the welfare system as we k it. within this reform. the various catch 22s that have caused so much consternation will be eliminated. the day care question would be addressed by elimination of income eligibility tests. and by charging a standard fee for the service regardless of income. i realize there may be prospect of immediate action on this measure. but it is time we begin considering the merits of the arguments. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
. i would like to take this opportunity to discuss some important provisions of this substitute as they relate to current law and the bill as reported out of the committee on agriculture and forestry. the substitute retains the committees provision to lower food stamp eligibility to the poverty level. but modifies the committees action to deal with a number of problems associated with the use of the poverty line. one of the major deficiencies of the poverty line is that t has grown away from its original relationship to the cost of a nutritionally adequate diet. at the time the poverty line was created. it was set at a level equal to three times the cost of the ecoy food plan. this food plan was formulated by the department of agriculture and was intended to measure the cost of a nutritionally adequate diet although the ecoy food plan has been criticized by many experts as being inadequate and below the cost level of a good diet. this threetoone relationship between the poverty line and the alleged cost of nutritional adequacy longer exists. it disappeared when the definition of the poverty line was transformed in 1969 so that it longer is related to the alleged cost of an adequate diet. therefore. the poverty line is at best a dubious standard of need for the food stamp program which. under law. is supposed to base eligibility on the need for a nutritionally adequate diet.  abject poverty. moreover. even if the poverty line were an acceptable standard for the need for nutrition assistancewhich is the only standard recognized by the current food stamp statuteit lags so far behind the cost of living so as to make it fail as a useful measure of need. the substitute  being considered at least resolves this 12 to 24 month timelag problem by requiring semiannual updates in the poverty line based on increases in the consumer price index. the new regulations proposed by the agriculture department. and the committees bill. would establish eligibility standards well below the current poverty line. therefore. the regulations and the committees bill would abrogate the current statutes policy of providing aid to all families that do  have access to nutritional adequacy. the substitute also improves upon the committees application of a standard deduction for food stamp households. a deduction which is intended to replace the current system of deductions  afforded to participating households. the first improvement is to update the $100 standard deduction semiannually so as to reflect the price increases of the expenses it replaces. the second improvement that the substitute makes with the committee bill is to include an extra $25 deduction for households which have earned incomes over $150 a month. i had proposed exactly this reform in my own bill. this recognizes that working households have costs associated with working. and preserves the programs aim of providing households with work incentives. i am pleased that this aspect of the program is strengthened. especially since the proposed legislation and regulations of usda undercut this goal. the departments regulations fail to provide working households with a reasonable deduction to offset the expenses they must incur. under usdas proposed regulations. it might have been more beneficial for a working parent with children to accept welfare rather than have to pay huge child care costs plus other workrelated expenses. indeed. usdas regulations. unlike the committees bill and the substitute. do  even allow working households to subtract their payroll taxes in addition to the standard deductionan omission that contravenes our intent in the current law and which. in fact. discriminates against those who work. the whole idea of the eligibility limits and the standard deduction is to measure that amount of income which reflects the need for nutrition assistance. if the standard deduction is inadequate (as it is in usdas regulations) it is impossible to gear food stamp benefits to the needs of participating households. since current law is intended to give needy households the opportunity to afford a nutritionally adequate diet. and since benefits are linked to a households net income. a standard deduction must be structured so as to accurately reflect that net income figure. thus. working households must be allowed an extra deduction. a concept contained in the substitute bill. the deduction system in the committees bill is inadequate and will deny access to nutritional adequacy to working households. and the new regulations are worse and are much more discriminatory against working families. the new regulations would. it seems to me. violate the current laws eligibility and work incentive policies. and the substitute bill underscores that these regulations should  and can be legally implemented. that brings us to the purchase requirement. current law provides in section 7(b) that a households purchase price for food stamps "shall represent a reasonable investment on the part of the household. but in event more than 30 percent of the households income." thus the criterion is a "reasonable investment" with the maximum charge being 30 percent of a households adjusted net income. the goal is to afford participating households reasonable access to the benefits provided through the program. at present. there is a sliding scale of purchase prices with the average household paying about 24 percent of its adjusted net income. the regulations purpose to increase the purchase price to 30 percent of adjusted gross income acrosstheboard represent a major change in program operation  authorized under existing law. that 30percent figure is a maximum figure under the law. and is intended to be used solely for those highest income eligibility households for which the 30percent figure might represent a reasonable investment. it is with this understanding that the committee rejected a 30percent purchase price for all households and utilized. instead. a 27.5 figure. the substitute further clarifies this intent by lowering the figure to 25 percent of net income. this action rejects the ion that a higher purchase price for all households is acceptable. i am pleased that the committee and the substitute have  endorsed the plan to base eligibility for food stamps on income received over the prior 90 days. current law provides that a households current situation be evaluated as the basis of eligibility. thi. reflects our intent to guarantee access to nutritional adequacy as soon as there is a need for assistance and the eligibility criteria are met. a 90day retrospective accounting period. which the usda has put into its proposed regulations without waiting for congressional authorization for changing the statutes policy of basing eligibility on current income. would create serious problems for the recently unemployed who might immediately need the boost in purchasing power provided by the food stamp program. the substitute changes current law so that. for initial certification. a households situation over the past 30 days must be considered in determining eligibility. the substitute makes clear. however. that a recently unemployed person would get food stamp aid within 30 days from its first request for assistance. and eligibility and benefit levels for such a household would be based on current income. the substitute rejects aher proposed regulatory and statutory change that would end the current laws requirement that. once a household is receiving food stamps. its income must be based on its current situation. the committee bill authorized the secretary to institute a monthly reporting system. it is clear that. if the law where changed to authorize such a new system. usda would implement it. indeed. the departments proposed regulations. anticipating such authority. provide for a monthly reporting system. there are two major problems with a monthly reporting system. which is why it is prohibited under the substitute. first. under such a reporting system a household would have to fill out a form detailing its income for each month. it would then have to return that form to the food stamp office. which would use it 2 months later to determine that households eligibility and benefits. thus. a determination of continued eligibility and purchase price would be based on information which is at least two months old. this would represent a major change in current law. the second problem is administrative. the monthly reporting system requires the state agency to hire additional staff to read and process every formeven though the vast majority would show changes. this is tremendously expensive and highly costineffective. in addition. it is unnecessary insofar as it duplicates program requirements current in effect. at present households that experience a change in their circumstances must report such a change within 10 days. this is sufficient to deal with changes in household circumstances. the substitute. therefore. rejects the idea of monthly reporting. instead. it writes the current practice into law and strengthens it by requiring that all households be given a postagefree form on which to report changes. the substitute. in my view. represents the more sensible approach. there are a few other improvements contained in the substitute which i would like briefly to outline: assets in addition to the usda study on assets ordered by the committee. the substitute prohibits the secretary from making any changes in the assets limitationthe amount of assets a household can own and still be eligibleuntil 2 months after the study is sent to congress. i believe this to be a wise modification in the committee bill so that we can properly judge the effects of any changes. we must make sure that any changes do  deny access to the program for people in need of food assistance. mis the committee bill changed the statutes definition of a food stamp "household" so as to exclude certain mis from participation. the substitute retains current law. if the purpose of this administrationproposed change s to kk students out of the program. it should be attempted in a straightforward manner instead of asking the congress to legislate students out of the program through the back door. the proposed regulations by the agriculture department seek to make a similar change--a change that conflicts with the statutory household definition. the substitute bill retains the statutes current policy that needy mis must be allowed to participate in the food stamp program regardless if they live in a household in which one has an obligation to support them.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the editorial which appeared in newsday. april 30. 1976. entitled "pension plan dropouts" which confirms again the comprehensive nature of erisa and rejects the initial chamber of horrors argument made by erisa critics that the act caused substantial pension plan terminations during 1975.
. i have discussed this proposition with the manager of the bill and with mr. woodworth. whom we all admire so much for his deep understanding of our problems and of the law. it comes out to this: they do  mind this amendment but they are concerned that the amendment. as drafted. may have some effect on other provisions of ira. i respect that. second. they feel that it may be possible. under section 1503 of the bill which is before us. to deal with this subject in conference and to specifically arrange whatever needs to be arranged in order to give equal treatment to this particular pension fund. if that should prove to be impossible. though hopefully it can be done. then a considerationi do  even want to say a hearing because a hearing may  be necessarywill be given by the finance committee to this proposition with a view toward putting it on aher tax bill this year. i emphasize those last words because otherwise the patient is likely to be dead. so rapid is the withdrawal from this particular pension fund by individual members. so if given those assurances by the manager of the bill. with the consent of the former counsel for the miity on the labor and public welfare committee. michael gordon. who is the lawyer for this particular pension fund--and who. by the way. has rendered emous service to the people of the united states in the development and consummation of the erisa legislation when he was herei would turn to the manager of *as of april. 1975. out of 453.000 pension plans registering with the u.s. department of labor. 1.801 were union pension plans to which only members of the union contribute. the bill and ask if he could give us those assurances. in which case i will withdraw the amendment.
. senator long himself was one of the great authors of the pension law. with senator nelson. me. and other senators. so i do  think he will decry that very long. but the 2year plan allows our experience to date to continue. anything gotten. during that time belongs to the stockholder. but it does give us that experience to give us mature judgment to consider other plans. a wide variety of plans. that is the point of the pension law. it does  favor a particular type of plan. it favors all plans that meet certain requirements. the deficiency. the cancer in this thing is that it preempts the field for a small number of plans. and cuts off our efforts to help other plans equally beneficial and as good. i have never heard a word against the sears. roebuck plan. it has been in effect for years. and  has resulted in sears. roebuck employees owning control of the company. as i have stated before. people on this side of the argument have a very tough role to play. and senator long has made us swallow the poison to the end. but we will do it. because we k we are right. we want to encourage stock ownership plans. and we think people have egh sense to see that we do. but we do  want to give the law a bias in favor of a particular plan. benefiting a minuscule number of people. even if it suits their needs. the humphrey committee seriously challenges that esop is a very convenient plan for people who want to get rid of their own stock in a closely held company. if it is going to preempt other plans. which it will if we give it these advantages. and preempt pension plans. which are infinitely more valuable to the individual and to the average worker. the senate ought  to adopt it.
. the committee amendment deals with the earned income credit which goes to poor people. and they certainly are poor because it is a $4.000 limit. and it is phased up to $8.000 when it passes out entirely. the problem appears to be that the irs has ruled that if a child of that particular kind of family receives over onehalf of its support from sources outside the family. then the whole familys earned income. which is this $4.000. loses the benefit of the earned income credit. what has happened is that this has been widely applied by the irs to children who are on afdc. and this just lte 26139 again robs the poor of the incentive to work. it has apparently borne in very heavily on the welfare authorities. i would greatly appreciate it because. of its necessity. and the senator ks as well as i do that if it does  stand up on examination in the conference. it will be dropped. we are  going to turn down the conference report on that account. and that is my reason for urging it. if the senator could take it to conference. i would greatly appreciate it. it is  my baby. it is the plea of the welfare authorities of my state.
. to summarize. despite wishful thinking that this emergency job program is longer necessary. the statistics and those people unemployed say otherwise. most favorable estimates. made when the unemployment rate was falling. still project an unemployment rate over 61/4 percent by the end of 1977. an emergency 1year program must be continued to take up some of the slack. and also provide the essential public services which would go untended. by  acting. those 260.000 presently employed under title vi. like mrs. wilder. will be added to the unemployed rolls. either collecting unemployment benefits or welfare checks.
. i call to senator longs attention the fact that there are pension plans and then there are pension plans. some of them are contributory by the beneficiary. i believe that is an item of consideration. i realize that we can work out this situation on the floor of the senate. so i should like to raise a few of the points which should be considered in conference. in view of the fact that this matter will be in conference with the house. i agree with the fact .that the retiree situation should be considered. as a matter of fact. the amendment also calls for a study by the commission. which i think is right. i also agree with the fact that it was  considered in the house. and therefore the only way to raise it is by raising it by some kind of amendment. so i am perfectly satisfied to go ahead with the modification. whatever it may be. it does  worry me at all. but i do think that these caveats should be written into our debate. so that they are in the conference. the amendment would have required the states to deny unemployment insurance benefits to unemployed workers receiving any pension or other retirement income. this drastic action by the committee. in my judgment. is both unwarranted and discriminatory. it should be well kn by  that pension plans are inadequate for millions of american workers. congress recognized this fact only 2 years ago when it enacted pension plan reform in the employee retirement income security act of 1974. but even erisa does  guarantee a sufficient retirement income to provide for a retired workers basic needs. many older americans. despite their receipt of some pension benefits. have realistic alternative other than to search for gainful employment. it should also be well kn that older unemployed workers experience greater difficulty in finding new jobs than younger workers. and are often the first to be laid off when business declines. . tho amendment still does  distinguish between workers receiving pension benefits from a pension fund based upon their own contributions--which may be either voluntary or mandatoryand those who receive benefits from plans which are financed entirely or in large part from employer contributions. indeed. the amendment would exclude from ui payments dollarfordollar benefits under plans for the selfemployed or individual retirement accounts for workers whose employers offer pension plan at all. this is tantamount to penalizing an individual who is drawing on his own life savings. where an employee has contributed a significant amount toward his own pension. the receipt of such retirement income should  reduce receipt of ui payments. erisa and many of our tax laws have been enacted to encourage workers to participate in contributory retirement plans. erisa provides increased tax incentives for individual plans for selfemployed workers. and added a new individual retirement account provision to encourage retirement savings by employees whose employers do  offer pension plans.  this amendment proposes to reduce ui payments to these same workers. it should also be ed that the amendment will have an adverse effect on employers who are taxed on an experiencerated basis. first. if an employer who enjoys a low experience rating must reduce his work force. the amendment will encourage him to layoff first any older worker who may be eligible for pension benefits. the employer would then preserve his low experiencerated tax because the laid off worker will be barred from collecting ui or will collect a reduced amount. the propensity of employers to discriminate in employment against older workers has already been recognized and disapproved by congress in enacting the age discrimination in employment act of 1967. in the face of this congressional policy. i find this encouragement to lay off the older worker in the committees amendment to be repugnant. in addition. the amendment is inequitable with regard to the employer who has a high experience rating. such an employer is forced to pay the maximum amount of ui tax. which can be increased because of his action in laying off additional workers. yet. when he lays off an older worker who is eligible for retirement pay. and ineligible for ui. or eligible only for a reduced amount. the employer is denied the advantage given the low experiencerated employer under the same circumstances. if a fair and effective federal rule should be adopted to deal with possible abuses by workers simultaneously collecting u1 and retirement benefits. it will first require the kind of detailed study and careful analysis which is expected of the new national commission on unemployment insurance to be established under this bill. i am perfectly satisfied td modify the amendment so that the matter may be in conference. i think that senator long. in this case. is just as sympathetic as we are to being sure that injustice is done. i have raised a couple of the points which could cause an injustice.
. this past labor day was the second anniversary of the williamsjavits employee retirement income security act of 1974. first. i wish to commend my coauthor harrison a. williams. jr.. whose position as chairman of the senate labor and public welfare committee expedited passage of this landmark pension reform statute which affords protection to millions of workers and their families covered by private pension and health plans. chairman williams strong leadership of the senate labor committee was essential to the passage of erisa which is the first federal pension reform law in our countrys history. industrial pensions began in america more than 100 years ago. and in the last 25 years. they have enjoyed emous growth. today. more than 30 million american workers and their families are relying on private pension and health plans as a major source of ecoic security in old age. yet. until 2 years ago the pheenal growth in pensions had been largely unregulated. while the absence of legal requirements helped promote growth of the private system. the resulting plans set up difficult and sometimes insurmountable obstacles to employees. in 1967. i introduced the first pension reform bill. ifi 1969. senator williams and i asked the senate to conduct an indepth study of pension plans in the united states. senator williams was selected as chairman of the study. in 1971 after 3 years of intensive work. the senate pension plan study revealed that of all those who had been employed. and were. covered under pension plans. and had left that employment over the preceding 20 years. only 5 percent would ever receive any benefits under their plans. this revelation came after numerous witnesses including those from ballantine in newark. n.j.. with the countless tragic stories of being in their late forties and fifties losing their pension rights because of plant shutdowns. transfers. store closings. and pension fund terminations. the intent of the major reform legislation we introduced in 1973 was to produce a federal check on the private pension system in this country so that workers would  be faced with the prospect of retiring after a lifetime of work to poverty because their pension rights had been taken away or lost. after 2 years of work on this complex legislation which received approval of four committees of the congress. it became law on september 2. 1974. erisa affords to plan participants and their beneficiaries unprecedented. uniform federal protection in several areas. to list but a few: participation requirements describe whether and when workers may be covered by a pension plan. generally. erisa sets minimum requirements. which once met. provides that a worker can be excluded from coverage under the pension plan for any reason. vesting means the point at which rights to a pension can be taken away. under erisa workers will be assured of receiving pension benefits based on service when they reach retirement age. erisas funding requirements establish how a pension plan will acquire the money it needs to pay benefits. the funding requirements assure that at some future date all pension plans will be able to meet the benefits level for each retired worker. erisa established strict standards of duty for those who administer pension plans. in general. a plan must be established and operated for the exclusive benefit of workers and their families. erisa also sets down a number of prohibitions on the way in which a plans funds may be used. the law strictly prohibits an administrator from using the plans money for his own interest. erisa has accomplished a number of other things that will assure that workers will  be left without benefits upon retirement. there is a provision which offers special protection to a surviving spouse when a pension plan provides for a retirement benefit in the form of an annuity. erisa creates the pension benefit guaranty corporation to insure benefits will be paid in the event that a pension plan terminates without sufficient funds. to pay vested benefits. finally. under erisa workers are protected by certain reporting and disclosure requirements. in addition to annual financial reports and plan descriptions which a plan must file with the government and make available to workers and their families. every worker is entitled once a year to request the administrator of a pension plan for a status report on vesting and benefits. the original pension bill we introduced contained a portability provision which permitted an employee to be able to accumulate pension credits from one job to aher and eventually combine them to earn a higher. single pension. chairman williams and i believe that this is an issue which deserves the most serious consideration. two cases have recently come to our attention as a result of the committees oversight activities. a teamster. who  resides in california. writes that after having worked in the industry for 38 years. he applied for a pension. he has been advised that under the pension plan negotiated by his current local he is entitled to ony $33 a month in pension benefits because the plan does  recognize his years of service under the jurisdiction of his former teamster local located in new york. aher example: an attorney writes that his client receives a pension in an amount approximately 40 percent of the value of what he would be entitled to if he had worked his 22 years under the jurisdiction of a single plan. we are also concerned that the 10year vesting provisions in erisa leaves too many american workers uncovered because of job mobility. an employee could work in one industry for a number of years but never stay with one employer 10 years so as to vest in any pension plan. at the end of his or her career. there will be pension. finally. one of the most successful erisa features is the pbgc pension termination coverage. however. such coverage is  afforded to terminated health and welfare plans. chairman williams has raised with me two recent items called to the committees attention which dramatize the plight of those victimized by health plan terminations. first. on june 28. 1976. hundreds of persons receiving welfare health and life insurance from the new jersey state brewery employees fund received ification that effective july 1. 1976. these benefits were terminated. second. on july 21. 1976. the new york times carried a guest column written by a young attorney describing the situation faced by her parents. her father had counted upon a construction union negotiated welfare plan to cover his familys health insurance needs in his retirement. only to be ified that. due to construction industry conditions. his benefits were terminated. meanwhile. the family had just learned that her mother will soon be required to undergo serious cancer surgery. the newspaper column is headlined: "one expected this god to fail." e of these improvements in erisa will be inexpensive. however. this same argument was made in opposition to the original reforms established in erisa. few can quarrel with the position that the cost of those erisa reforms has been far outweighed by the deprivation and tragedy which have been avoided and the new security and dignity which has been gained by over 30 million workers.
. as a part of h.r. 10210.  public law 94566. the conferees last year adopted a senate amendment which requires the states to reduce the unemployment compensation of an individual by the amount of any public or private pension. including social security retirement benefits and railroad retirement annuities. based on the claimants previous employment. the conferees. however. delayed the effective date of this provision until september 30. 1979. and stated in the conference report that this would thereby permit "the national commission on unemployment compensation an opportunity for a thorough study of this issue and the congress to act in light of its findings and recommendations." h.r. 4800. as passed by the house and as reported by the senate finance committee. provides for a 6month extension. to july 1. 1979. of the final reporting date for the national commission on unemployment compensation. the bill. however. provides corresponding extension of the effective date for the provision denying unemployment compensation to recipients of retirement benefits. that date would remain at september 30. 1979. my amendment proposes a 6month delay in the effective date of this provision in order to conform it to the new reporting date for the national commission. it should be well kn by  that pension plans are inadequate for millions of american workers. congress recognized this fact only 2 years ago when it enacted pension plan reform in the employee retirement income security act of 1974. but even erisa does  guarantee a sufficient retirement income to provide for a retired workers basic needs. many older americans. despite their receipt of some pension benefits. have realistic alternative other than to search for gainful employment. it should also be well kn that older unemployed workers experience greater difficulty in finding new jobs than younger workers. and are often the first to be laid off when business declines. we need the national commissions views on this provision. which does  even distinguish between workers receiving pension benefits from a pension fund based upon their own contributionswhich may be either voluntary or mandatoryand those who receive benefits from plans which are financed entirely or in large part from employer contributions. indeed. the provision would exclude from ui payments persons receiving benefits under plans for the selfemployed or individual retirement accounts for workers whose employers offer pension plan at all. this is tantamount to penalizing an individual who is drawing on his own life savings. where an employee has contributed a significant amount toward his own pension. the receipt of such retirement income should  exclude receipt of ui payments. erisa and many of our tax laws have been enacted to encourage workers to participate in contributory retirement plans. erisa provides increased tax incentives for individual plans for selfemployed workers. and added a new individual retirement account provision to encourage retirement savings by employees whose employers do  offer pension plans. if a fair and effective federal rule should be adopted to deal with possible abuses by workers simultaneously collecting ui and retirement benefits. it will first require the kind of detailed study and careful analysis which is expected of the new national commission on unemployment insurance. in the meantime. most states already have provisions in their unemployment insurance laws dealing with the treatment of retirement income. these provisions establish widely varying forms of treatment for setting off. or disqualifying for. retirement income. the others are obviously free to adopt such provisions at any time. i believe these considerations make it clear that the retirees provision adopted in h.r. 10210 should  be permitted to go into effect without sufficient opportunity for the congress to act on the recommendations of the national commission on unemployment compensation. i hope the managers of the bill may feel that they can accept this amendment because it seems only fitting to conform these two dates.
. i commend the committees chairman. mr. talmadge. and the ranking republican of the committee. mr. dole. for their diligent work on this conference report and i support the conference report. i am especially pleased by the specifics of the food stamp title. although i would have preferred that my state receive a fairer portion of the food stamp program. many households in new york will be terminated from the program. and others will be hurt. that is never easy to accept when one considers the idinate costs poor people must bear in my state. however. there is much in the food stamp reform proposal that demands support and which. on balance. influences my judgment on the entire package. many of the obstacles new yorkers have experienced will fall once this bill is in place. prime among those hurdles is the purchase price. many new yorkers. as well as other people eligible for food stamps around the country. were forced to forgo all or part of their benefits because of their inability to scrape up the purchase price. this barrier is dropped under the conference bill. and the sooner this provision is implemented. the better the program will be able to serve the poor dependent on its healthvital assistance. the elimination of the purchase price should be put into effect as soon as is administratively feasible after this bills enactment. there is reason for delay. insofar as it will only serve to simplify the programs administration. since it only changes the method of delivering benefits. and  the level of assistance itself. there is reason to wait until the entire regulatory package is in place. this food stamp bill wisely encourages food stamp participants to work. i consider this one of the strengths of the current program. and i am pleased this principle was retained in the reform package. in this regard. i would like to single out one conference committee action on behalf of my distinguished colleague from massachusetts. senator brooke. who shares my concern in this area. the conference adopted an amendment senator brooke introduced on the floor with a house variation. the aim of this provision is to exclude from the computation of income any reimbursements received by a household member which do  represent any real gain to the household. this is a sound decision. for the counting of such reimbursements represents a disincentive to work. take. for example. the case of messengers who operate their own vehicles in the course of their job. the chances are that these workers are paid close to the minimum wage and. in addition. are reimbursed for their mileage. these workers. who could very well be eligible for food stamps. would have both wages and the mileage requirement counted as income to determine food stamp eligibility under the current rules. since the mileage reimbursement represents only money that they have already spent to hold their jobs. it is unreasonable to count that as income. thus. i applaud the conference committees decision to exempt such reimbursements. and to end this work disincentive. i should further e that this income exclusion would also be applicable to other workers. students receiving specific reimbursements for travel. for example. ceta workers reimbursed for specific costs. and people serving as volunteers who are reimbursed for travel and/or meals. there is one final provision in the bill which has come to my attention and which i feel needs some discussion. the bill authorizes the establishment of a separate poverty lineto be used as the net income eligibility levelfor puerto rico and the territories. i am troubled by this provision and urge the administration to resist developing a separate standard. food stamp eligibility should be set at a level of need. and the level of need on the island of puerto rico is roughly the same. if  higher. than on the mainland. indeed. some studies have shown food costs to be approximately 20 percent higher in puerto rico than in the continental united states. however. if the administration should choose to set new standards for puerto rico. it should use the same methodology that was used to establish the u.s. poverty line. this would require the use of food costs as the key factor in setting the poverty line. if different criteria were used in the development of a puerto rico poverty line. it would be hing more than arbitrary discrimination against those u.s. citizens. penalizing them for poverty. once again. i compliment my colleagues on the agriculture committee for their long and hard work on this legislation.
the points made by senator tower have been partially answered in the debate on the bartlett amendment. but also a few things need to be ed. one. the figures which senator tower has given us are the house figures. if we adopt these figures there is negotiation between the house and senate of any kind on the amount of the minimum wage. that is the end of it. they were contained in the erlenborn amendment. and the arguments made are exactly the same arguments. in substance. as were made for bartlett. with one exception. and that is the fourth year. why the fourth year. . in the first place. the house adopted 3 years. why the fourth year. one reason is that it provides on attractive alternative proposal in order to dispense with the indexing. i could  see indexing as remotely reasonable. so as a reasonable approach to the elimination of the index we picked 4 years. aher reason. . we are at the rockbottom minimum. the 4 years are needed even to approach the poverty level. and the figures given are simply realizing actuality. to wit. what is the poverty level for living. the reason for the difference between 3 million that senator tower speaks of who get the minimum wage today. and 4.5 million who are affected by the increase in the minimum wage is precisely that. there is an increase in the minimum wage. therefore. those who are getting a minimum between $2.30 and $2.65 are going to be increased to that minimum. and that means aher 1.5 million people. that these additional millions will be helped is a very good reason for enacting the amendment which senator williams and i have proposed. so i hope very much the tower amendment is rejected. as the bartlett amendment was. and for very much the same reason.
. let us emphasize that there are two measures. both essential. one is the extension of the date for mandatory insurance coverage of multiemployer plans by the pension benefit guaranty corporation. we are putting that off for 18 months. that is the basic bill which came from the house. the other measure has been explained by senator bentsen. it is necessary that the single employer insurance fund be buttressed by increased premium rate. there are some 75.000 to 80.000 plans affected involving 23 million employees. there are billions of dollars of assets in these plans. the amount of additional premium. which will have an emously salutory effect. is  large at all. even though it goes up from $1 to $2.60. the absolute amount is  large considering what is involved. as one of the authors of erisa. just as my colleagues are. i strongly commend this measure to the senate as being absolutely essential. i want to thank the leadership for allowing us to bring it up at this point.
i wish to juxtapose the word which senator tower used. a simple and straightforward way to the actual conditions. the fact is that bond counsel would approve this guarantee with any such condition because i always believe in reading the words. and the words simply heavily underline what senator proxmire has argued. they speak of failure to comply with any term or condition. any term or condition. a failure to given a written ice would be a failure to comply with a term or a condition. and then it would prejudice every other guarantee because that holder would be deprived of his guarantee. so. . it simply is aher way of sabotaging and destroying this bill. bond counsel will approve that. there will be purchase by the pension funds that guarantee the minute we agree to this amendment. so forget it. the whole scheme just falls down. it is very cleverly drafted to destroy the bill. that is just what it means. and the bill depends upon the guarantee to the pension funds in order to get them to put up the money. with all the other restrictions in the bill. including the fact that guarantees come in in installments. new york city does  get $1.5 billion in guarantees immediately. it gets it only so much per year so that if we do  like what is going on in the appropriations process and here in the chamber. based on that. because this whole thing is built on that proposition. we can turn it down. but to put this sanction in merely guarantees that there is bill and we have to start from square a all over again.
. i have preconceptions about this amendment. and i appreciate the desire to avoid what is called a meatax cut. i voted against them. i voted against one this morning. and i voted against it this aftern. whatever tactical reasons various other senators had for voting the other way to permit this amendment to survive. i do  k. and it is  material to the issue. however.  that we are down to specific cuts. and just looking this thing overby the way. i approve thoroughly the idea of going after specifi- cuts. but they must be justfied. i look through this list. and i find everything is "peanuts": $5 million. $2.6 million. $1.8 million. $1 million. $3 million. $2 million. $7 million. $3 million. all together. at a quick glance. it is perhaps $15 million. a cut of $178 million. however. the ecoic development fund is cut $150 million. what is this all about. i have just read the report very quickly. and the committee. which i assume passed on this with maturity and intelligence. tells us that a lot of this moneyi read on page 40 of the reportrelates to the matter of compensating businesses which are harmed by imports. they say this. and i will read the whole .thing: the total increase of $213.450.000 over the house allowance includes $152.000.000 to fund the full amount authorized for the title ii business loans and guarantees program. the committee believes that the full utilization of this authority is a necessary interim measure pending the authorization of the national development bank. i emphasize the word "necessary." how. suddenly. have we got this conversion. it was necessary when they wrote report. which was only a few days ago. and  it is suddenly unne:essary. this amendment. in effect. goes after the eda. that is what it does. let us  kid ourselves about that. so far as i can read it. that is what it does. i am  on the committeei do  k the technical detailsbut it seems to me that this is something about which we should have an explanation. why. in a $178 million cut. does this particular agency. which deals with a number of thingsthe senator. i think. misspoke himself when he spoke of it as equal employment opportunity. there is a provision for that in this. but that is $3 million. the eda does a number of things. for one. it helps ecoic development in very depressed areas which have serious unemployment problems. we have used it in my state. i am sure other states have used it comparably. where there are very grave ecoic and social difficulties. the eda helps out with loans and stimulating business enterprise and enlisting people to get new enterprise into slum communities and rural poverty communities. this is a very good thing. also. we are having emous trade problems. we are doing our utmost to see that the united states does  make the fatal mistake of aher fordneymccumber tariff. which brought on the depression of 1932. we wish to avoid that by some kind of reasonable trade policy. a very essential element of that trade policy is adjustment assistance. i have lived with that for years. the committee says that is necessary. and all of a sudden. as i say. we get this deathbed conversion. and $150 million is cut out of it. and we are told we have 15 minutes to debate because somebody else has used up all the time. in all fairness to the senate and to people like myself. who have questions about it. i think we should have an explanation as to why this is cut out.
