i thank the senator. i hope very much we may have the earliest possible action by the committee on foreign relations on my own resolution. senate concurrent resolution 44. as well as other resolutions. which will place the weight of the congress behind this whole effort toward mutual exchanges. my resolution applies particularly to students and professors. this is an area to which the president referred yesterday. i hope very much we may have congressional action and senate committee action equivalent to the very distinguished proposal of the majority leader. the people of the united states have already demonstrated their receptiveness to giving fair considerations to what the russians have to say. this is indicated by the millions who viewed the khrushchev telecast last year. by the demonstrated appreciation of russian cultural offerings in the arts. such as pianist gillels. violinist oistrakh. and by the bolshoi ballet. the free and wide circulation of proncements of soviet leaders. such as that given the december letter from premier bulganin to president eisenhower. by the acceptance by american newspapers of intourist advertisements urging visits to the soviet union. by the hundreds of americans who went as tourists to the u. s. s. r. last year. and by the open and friendly reception given the limited number of soviet delegations visiting the united states during recent years. i would hope that the russians will permit "visit u. s. a." ads in pravda and izvestia as we have in recent months welcomed such soviet advertisements in american papers. the congress last year. by enactment of section 8 of public law 85316. paved the way for removal of the nettling fingerprinting requirement which had proven such a hindrance to visits to the united states from abroad. especially from areas behind the iron curtain. the path of progress for peaceful understanding lies before us. a look at a world map will remind us that the soviet union is a close neighbor. separated only by a few miles of the bering strait from united states territory. washington is closer to moscow by jet airliner than it is to san francisco by train or highway. our ties of peace with the people of canada and mexico have been forged by understanding. americans working and visiting in germany and japan have won the confidence of these nations and assured their intentions of peace and friendship toward us more firmly than did years of war. but the congress has a role. too. in this endeavor. in the satellite nations behind the iron curtain in europe lies a great reservoir of regard and respect for the united states. american customs. fashions. and music are avidly copied by the peoples of the satellite nations. american political freedom and ecoic progress continue to serve as an inspiration and a goal. bonds of blood and relationship exist strong between americans and poles and czechs. americans. hungarians. and rumanians. and between americans and others in the communist bloc. on august 4. last. i introduced senate concurrent resolution 44. designed to implement the reciprocal cultural exchange program between the united states and the communist bloc nations of europe under the provisions of the united states information and educational exchange act. particularly with respect to students exchange at the suggestion of president eisenhower. this measure is presently pending before the committee on foreign relations and i hope for early action on it by that committee. the senate will have an opportunity to ratify the recently concluded united statessoviet agreement. the congress. speaking as it does in our republican government for the entire people of the united states. should also  only endorse the stated objectives of the agreement but also its basic objections. strengthen them and open the way for their expansion. when desired. and of their effective implementation. the physicists speak of the conservation of matterthe indestructibility of chemical elements. we must  overlook the conservation of ideasthe indestructibility of mans aspirations for freedom and the "pursuit of happiness." it is we.  communism. who must serve as the inspiration to the peoples of the world. to gain appreciation for our showcase of democracy it must be viewed. to gain circulation for our ideals. they must be exported. the interexchange agreement concluded yesterday after 2 years of extended negotiations marks an opportunity for assuring the peace. an opportunity which it is incumbent upon us to exploit to the fullest. i hope that we shall have early action on senate concurrent resolution 44.
