s budget for the fiscal year of 1958. and supported by the department of health. education. and welfare and the department of justice. in general. its provisions would realize the federal legislative goals in the field of juvenile delinquency supported by the american municipal association in its 1959 national municipal policy statement. juvenile delinquency has been diaged as a critical social disease which makes itself most keenly felt when it flares up into sensational headlines reporting a grave youth crime. sometimes even murder. however. despite public consciousness of the chronic nature of this disease and the activities of voluntary and public agencies to stamp out the sources of infection and to rehabilitate youthful offenders where it is already too late to prevent their delinquency. they need more financial help if we are to stop losing ground. as we  are. in the fight to combat and control it. probing studies including one by the new york state temporary commission on youth and delinquency reveal that the wellkn factors contributing to the upsurge in youthful offenders like lack of organized recreation. substandard housing and low ecoic status are often secondary to primary causes like broken homes. personality maladjustinents. too little help for borderline delinquents and inadequate rehabilitation of youngsters following their apprehension. the broadscale offensive envisioned for the legislation i introduced today will enable each state to launch a coordinated attack on all phases of juvenile delinquency. with special concentration on experimentation. demonstration projects in problem areas and training personnel including psychiatrists. psychologists. and social caseworkers in the new methods of prevention. control. and aftercare. all this can be accomplished in partnership with the federal government which will provide $3 million the first year and $9 million for each of the last 4 years to help combat youth crime at the grassroots level. the federal advisory council on juvenile delinquency established by the act would be of invaluable aid in furnishing overall supervision of the nationally launched program. it could compile and make available data on new developments and inform local authorities on job needs and opportunities for youth. temporary patchwork improvement of existing methods and agencies are substitute for federal legislation to support and intensify state and local efforts through public and voluntary organizations to combat juvenile delinquency. we must affirm that it is an integral part of our national policy to prevent the sapping of our manpower resources attributable to juvenile delinquency and youth crimes for we are dealing here with our most precious resource. our youth. to whom we will entrust the future of our country and. in a very real sense. the future of the free world.
i am grateful to the senator from arkansas. i will confine myself to 10 minutes. i wish to speak about the responsibility of congress. we have heard much about the responsibility of the executive department and local responsibility in respect to the drought in the theast. i propose to lay before congress what it can do. the recent mobilization of federal forces. money and techogy in an effort to rescue the theast from drought disaster is welcome. it is. of course. clear that the lack of farsighted planning on the part of local officials is an important contributing factor to this massive and expensive effort. brought on by the natural disaster of drought. but. it is encouraging that these municipal officials have. at last. been shaken out of their lethargy and indifference by the emity of the disaster which impends. it is incredible that only a few months ago citizens of new york city were assured by their commissioner of water supply that there was danger of a water crisis. last week. they were told that the city may be completely out of water by february 1966. the new york metropolitan area is. as secretary udall grimly described it last week. "walking on the edge of disaster." while it is reassuring that emergency measures annced by the president will probably see us through until the spring rufs. weather experts predict a fifth year of drought in the theast which shortrange solutions will  ease. we must begin to think  only of next year. but of the next 10 years. indeed. we must take steps to protect ourselves against future droughts unprecedented in severity. for failure to do so may leave our children and their childrenwho will crowd the cities in increasing numbersin the same predicament we face today. on july 14. i spoke in this body urging the consideration of the construction of a large atomicpowered desalination plant in the new york city area. i was gratified when mayor wagner. a few days later. requested a federal study of the proposal. and i understand that officials have already begun to explore sites for such a plant. other longterm suggestions include the construction of the chelsea pumping station on the hudson which was dismantled by city officials in an ecoy drive in the early 1950s. it certainly seems both reasonable and prudent to use purified hudson river water as extensively as possible without causing salt water incursion to the detriment of smaller communities in the hudson river valley. public health experts estimate that this can be done. and have suggested that an even larger plant be constructed th of the chelsea station. a plant processing 100 million gallons a day. for example. could be constructed for about $13 million. the newly enacted housing act of 1965 provides $275 million a year in grants for the construction of water facilities such as treatment plants. and new york city officials should expedite applications under this program with a view toward building a hudson river plant. as legislators. we have a responsibility in this crisis which is different from that of the scientists and engineers. one power which congress cherishes can be put to good use in this emergencyand that is the power of the purse. otherwise. we can prod and suggest. we can mediate and offer constructive criticism. but we must leave the techogy and the detailed planning to the water experts. when so much is at stake for so many. our prime responsibility is to see to it that the scientists and planners have egh money to do  only the necessary. but the optimum. this is  the time for postponing the commitment of resourcesin terms of money and personnel. this is  a time for partisan haggling or bureaucratic delay. this theast drought is a disaster of national importance in which each branch of the governmentindeed. each citizenhas pressing responsibilities. before we exhort others to act. however. let us look to our own responsibilities and whether we have discharged them. here is what i believe to be the immediate responsibility of congress: first. to complete action  on the water quality act of 1965. this measure. passed by the senate last january and by the house in april. has been deadlocked in conference through the long months of this crisisan amazing thing. if it is true. the annual $20 million in federal assistance would provide for water pollution control programs is desperately needed. particularly in new york state. which has plans on the drawing boards for a $1.7 billion antipollution program. as soon as a bond issue is approved in ember. years of careful planning will be over and action on the new york program can begin. but work can be done without federal helpflnancial help. if the waters of the hudson are to be used for humafi consumption. if rampaging pollution of lake erie is to be halted. and if the other streams and tributaries of the empire state are to be made potable. water purification work must begin without delay. sources of pollution have been indentified63 of them were listed by the commissioner of health of new york last weekand  they must be eliminated. new york sorely needs its share of the federal money which will become available once the conferees agree. and the president signs the water quality act of 1965. it is my understanding that substantial agreements have been reached by the house and senate conferees on the measure. and i implore my colleagues. with all the urgency at my command. to give us a conference report this very week. second. the water resources planning act of 1965. which was signed by the president on july 22. provides grants totaling $5 million a year to the states for water resources planning. this will be a great help when the grants program goes into effect in the 1967 fiscal yearbut we may  have that time to spare. extensive and complete planning must begin . and that money must be made available . accordingly. i am today introducing legislation to make the grants program effective immediately and to double the amount of funds authorized. it is. i k. highly unusual to try to amend a bill in this manner so shortly after enactment. but we are faced with a highly unusual situation. the water resources council created by the act. which will administer the program. has already been constituted. has held meetings and issued a report. it is  impossible. therefore. to ask that they take on these new duties immediately. new york state is ready to use these planning funds. and could submit an application right awayso. i am sure. are other states. i urge congressional action before we adjourn on my amendment and would hope that the necessary funds could be provided in a supplemental appropriation during this session. third. congress recently extended the life and increased the budget of the saline water program in the department of the interior. our intent was clear: to encourage experiments and improve the techogy of turning salt water into fresh. this is. of course. a longterm solution to the drought. but new york state is ready to submit an application to the department and to the atomic energy commission for funds for the construction of an atomic powered desalination plant at riverhead. long island. admittedly. the plant is smallit will process only 1 million gallons a daybut it will be the first such plant in this country to combine the desalination process with the production of atomic power. it has been estimated that this combination will considerably reduce the cost of producing fresh waterfrom approximately $1 per 1.000 gallons to 35 centsand it is the factor of cost which has thus far made the process practically prohibitive. the entire new york congressional delegation. acting without regard to party through our new york congressional delegation steering committee. has urged the federal agencies to give priority to this request. the state of new york will contribute $31/2 million to the project and the department and the aec have each been asked for $500.000. without doubt. this plant "will contribute to the state of the art" since it will be the first of its kind in the country. a considerably larger plant. which would be needed for new york city. could be modeled after this one. delay in granting this $1 million by the federal government could result in a poslponemcnt of the 10c completion date and a resulting setback to any larger plant which. it is  estimated. will take 5 years to construct. new york. only one of the 50 states. contributes $1 out of every $7 in taxes to the federal treasuryand we do so gladly in the spirit of unity and cooperation which has made our nation great. but  we are in troubledeep trouble. and i ask my colleagues to aid in expediting these matters which i have discussed.  so that we can have more than our share. but so that the desperately needed money. which would be made available to new york and other states in time. can be made available . in our time of grave crisis. . i send to the desk a bill to amend the water resources planning act. to increase financial assistance to states for such planning. and ask that it be appropriately referred.
