 eisenhower 3 years ago and observed every july sinceto speak in behalf of captive nations week. three years ago the soviet reaction to captive nations week was swift and angry. khrushchev was alarmed at our audacity in demanding genuine self -determination for iron and bamboo curtain peoples. he was genuinely afraid that we were headed down the road of liberation. but. on this fourth observance of the week. will khrushchev take e. will he dismiss our gesture as an empty one. next year at this time what new names will be added to the long and tragic roll of oncefree nations in communist thrall. hungary. lithuania. poland. ukraine. latvia. czechoslovakia. estonia. white ruthenia. east germany. rumania. bulgaria. mainland china. armenia. azerbaijan. georgia. th korea. albania. idelural. tibet. cossackia. turkestan. th vietnam. and others. will laos have sunk under communist waves before captive nations week 1963 arrives. do we in this house have the moral stamina to insist that a select committee on captive nations be created by this congress to evaluate the positive role we can play in restoring these nations right of selfdetermination. the resolution which would create such a committee. which would be tangible evidence to freedom lovers everywhere that the united states is determined that the world will  continue half slave and half free. that resolution has been quietly shelved by the rules committee. our words today are written on the wind for all the actual aid they give those millions of men and women living under communist subjugation. they have had their hearts lifted by our words before. and their hopes dashed by our legislative inaction and the lethargy of our administrative branch. i urge my colleagues on the floor to demand that the rules committee report the resolution to create a select committee on captive nations. the ghost of kossuth stalks this hall today. i hope. in deep sincerity. that we will find the courage in our hearts to help restore to the full dignity of free citizenship in free nations those suffering people who are  the abject peons of communist colonialism.
