. i am moved to say some words about my native city of new york. because it has been the subject of a rather detailed consideration on the floor of the senate from time to time. the city is  the subject of the  very tender mercies of fortune magazine. the reason i speak is that new york city. withstanding bad government and many other problems. ought to be the pride of americans as much as paris is of the frenchmen. london of the british. madrid of the spaniards. and tokyo of the japanese. great centers of commercial. financial. cultural and scientific activities. like new york. should be a great source of pride to its fellow countrymen. i therefore speak in that vein. new york city. down through the years. has been the subject of much calumny and abusive criticism leveled largely by people who cling to preconceived ions of what our largest city is and what it should be. in recent months. we have been treated to more than the usual diet of diatribes and dryeyed weeping over the fate of new york. our crimes of violence receive detailed national attention.  so much due to the nature of the crime itself. as to its location. every incident of violence or strife is pointed to as proof that such a polyglot. multiracial city can long endure. we are told. also. that new york. as if it were an entity bent on national conspiracy. deviously controls the wealth of the nationan echo of the 1880s and 1890s and an insult to the intelligence of the rest of the united states under todays conditionsand has cornered the market on traffic congestion and on dirt and slums and confusion. a minute ago i spoke of an article entitled. "a city destroying itself." in the september issue of fortune magazine. which echoed much the same line. but after careful reading. the conclusion of the piece is implicit and inescapable: that there is hing wrong with new york that could  be cured by some civic patriotism among builders. labor. management. and "cdnsumers" coupled with good. decisive government at city hall which has been lacking since mayor la~uardia ended his third term in 1945. and that. the city rises awesomelyin sheer dynamism. majesty and poweras the greatest city on earthand above all its troubles. but the constant criticismsome of it in the form of innuendo even on the floor of this bodyhas a familiar ring to historians. john adams. who visited the city in 1774. when it had 25.000 inhabitants. had much the same to say. and in 1906 byron rufus newton. then a reporter for the new york herald tribune. wrote a tongueincheek poem. which could be adapted to many of our most acid modern day critics. who are often apparently as humorless as they are undiscerning. the poem. facetiously entitled. "owed to new york." read as follows: vulgar of manner. overfed overdressed and underbred heartless. godless. hells delight. rude by day and lewd by night * * * purplerobed and pauperclad. raving. rotting. moneymad. a squirming herd in mammons mesh. a wilderness of human flesh. crazed with avarice. lust and rum. new york. thy names delirium. but what all our criticspast and presentfail to understand. is that real new yorker ever claimed our city was a camelot. real new yorker would feel that our city should be more like paris. or rome. or middleville. u.s.a. those cities have their own assets and their own liabilities. i am sure. but new york fits other mold and other place on earth fits new yorks. to its critics. new york has become the symbol of urban bigness. of urban problems. of seemingly unsolvable modern dilemmas. this being the case. the critics could bring a little warm humanityof which new york has its full shareif  understanding. to their task. for in a large sense. new york is really a symbol of modern america. a nation where 7 out of 10 citizens  live in urban areas. and where this trend is continuing at a rapid rate. if our critics want to consider new york as the symbol of big urban problems. that is all right with us. because we have problems. gigantic ones. problems of slums growing faster than new housing. problems of local political apathy. of crime. of air pollution. of traffic snarls and even of school boycotts. in essence. you name it and we have had it. and probably on a scale and with a complexity unkn in any other place in this republic. but this symbol of new york is  accurate because it is  complete. for new york is much. much more than a symbol of problems of city living. it is a town. or collection of townsfor we have many neighborhoods. each with a personality as complete as that of any american townthat create symbols of their own. new yorks wall street is the symbol of vibrant free enterprise and a hated target for communists the world over. madison avenue is the symbol of the giant u.s. communications and advertising industry. and what american does  k that broadway means live theater. that park avenue means "cafe society." that greenwich village means beatniks and artists and the beard and sandle set. that yorkville means german bands and beer by the stein. or that harlem is the symbol of this nations unfulfilled dreams for its negro citizens. i often feel that new york city suffers criticism for the same reason uncle sam has suffered similar criticism among the nations of the worldbecause we do so much and mean so much. because new york is preeminent in so many fields: entertainment. trade. finance. shipping. culture. transportationas well as in problems. then. too. many of our critics are just plain suspicious or fearful of the citys bigness. its power. and its influence. yet here is a city of 7.7 million people jammed into 320 square miles of islands and peninsulas. but living their lives with a vigor and an appetite for creativity in a degree unmatched anywhere. the citys greatest and most enduring feature is the contrast and variety of its people. in new york there are more italians than in the cities of florence and venice combined. more germans than in bonn. more poles than in danzig. more irish than in all the major cities of ireland. except dublin. and more negroes than in 8 of the 11 states of the old confederacy. to serve these and the diverse other ethnic and racial groups. the city produces 56 foreign language newspapers in 26 different languages. these include five each in arabic and chinese. two in hebrew. and one in japanese. one would deny that the greatest impact of new york on the visitors is the parapets and towers of masonry and glass and steel which give it such an appearance of majesty and awesome power. but it is the people of new york who are the citys greatest asset. i k that outoftown and outofcountry news articles and stories give the impression that new yorkers are always being stalked on their streets by crime. are too brusque in manner. and are  as human as smalltown people because they are squeezed together at the rate of 24.333 per square mile. but new yorks neighborhoods refute any such idea. as does the fact that new yorkers are creators. too. among them are a great many of the countrys foremost artists and musicians and actors of today and tomorrow. of our most successful executives and financiers. of our most gifted writers and composers. and of our scholars. as well as the worlds most kledgeable cabdrivers and harassedand generally goodhumoredpolicemen. despite the overcrowding on the subways and in the restaurants at n hour. despite the evercontinuing inconveniences of construction and expansion. these are the people that have it within their grasp to use all the resources of modern civilization to help people everywhere with new ways to develop the mind and enrich the spirit on a scale unparalleled in history. our critics never mention. for example. that there are still about 150 working farms within the city of new york. or that among the public high schools of this nation which graduate the greatest number of students who go on to doctorates in the humanities. the arts. the sciences. and the professions. 9 of the top 10 are in new york.  do they consider that there are 200.000 students in new yorks 35 colleges and universities. 9 of which are free public institutions.  all we hear is that new york has plenty of crime. and even then. our critics fail to mention that according to recent fbi reportsincluding the latest onenew york has a lower major crime rate per 100.000 population than atlanta. phoenix. chicago. los angeles. san francisco. miami. detroit. and denver. we hear that new york has some sort of ecoic mooly on the nation. which may have been the case years ago. but certainly is  true today. since other cities and states have been expanding their worldwide ecoic activities. six of the largest banks in the nation are located in new york. but the largest of them all is  on wall street. but in san francisco. it is the bank of america.  will la salle street in chicago or the bankers of detroit. philadelphia. boston. atlanta. dallas. or a score of other cities defer to new york anymore. we hear about new yorks problems in slums. but hing about the fact that between 1950 and 1960 more public housing projects were built in new york than in all the rest of the nation combined.  that more square feet of office space were built in new york alone since 1947 than in the central business districts of the next 22 american cities combined.  is it made kn that the city has 49 museums. housing everything from the most modern in modern art to the largest diaur skeletons. and that new museums are being added all the time. yes. we k all about the fact that some architectural monstrosities have been included among the thousands of new buildings erected yearly9.080 in 1963 alonebut  much attention seems to be given to the guggenheim museum designed by frank lloyd wright or to huntington hartfords gallery of modern art designed by edward durell stone. and that such structures are the pride of a nation. our critics have been assiduous in iging some of new yorks recent triumphs. such as the $160.7 million lincoln center of the performing arts. which when completed in 1967. will be the worlds greatest and most exciting center for the best in the theater and opera and music. these structures. these accomplishments. were made by new yorkers for the benefit of their fellow new yorkers. for the 14 million visitors who are mally drawn to it by the magic of our city every year. for the added millions coming to the worlds fair and for the glory of our nation in the name of the american city best kn in all the world. they are a measure of the vitality. the adventure. and the promise that lives in the canyons of new york. they are a measure of the ingenuity and the talent that new yorkers bring to the complex problems of human existence in the nation and the modern world. new york deserves to be the pride of the united states. its dynamism. its majesty. and its creativity rate from americans the regard which frenchmen give to paris. britons give london. and the japanese give tokyo. it is my hope that by coming to our city often and experiencing its magic for themselves. my colleagues and other americans may be convinced that new york has more to offer the country than a symbol of urban confusion and trouble.
