. to the dismay of the whole country the racial crisis in selma. ala.. is daily becoming more serious. with hundreds of arrests monday and hundreds more yesterday. what is most shocking about it is that it is a crisis over selmas negro citizens right to vote. a right which all americans. southerners as well as therners. seem to agree is fundamental and inalienable. whatever their feelings on other subjects. this is probably why rev. martin luther king. jr.. chose selma as the site of a major voter registration drive last month. up to that time it was one of the most intransigent holdouts from the general pattern of compliance in the south with the 1964 civil rights act. since the voter registration drive in selma began. the statistics demonstrate the extent to which the pattern is one of seemingly flagrant disregard for the law and for the most basic right guaranteed by the constitution of the united states. close to 2.000 negroes have sought to register to vote in selma since the opening of the drive. in january. 280 were arrested while waiting at the courthouse. on monday. 264 more were arrested along with some 600 students who demonstrated in sympathy with those waiting to register. and yesterday some 500 more were arrested. including 120 adults. with all this. 36 have had their applications processed in 1 week. 57 the week -following that. and monday aher 70.  a single negro has been actually registered to vote yet. since e of the processed applications have been acted upon. the usual period before ification in selma is about 6 weeks. when the whole laborious effort has been completed. it may only result in increasing the number of rejected applicationsrejections based upon alabamas difficult and arbitrary literacy test for voting. added to all this frustration. and arising from it. is the danger of physical violence which hangs like a pall over the long line of registrants in selma. it has exploded on several occasions already in the past few weeks. and it could again if something is  done soon to remedy the situation. dr. king has outlined the hurdles faced by negroes in selma who want to do more than exercise the right to vote: a city ordinance against parading without a license is used to discourage applicants from coming to the courthouse in groups. when a negro in selma can be expected. after decades of intimidation. to try to do so in any other way. the county sheriff james clark. is apparently dedicated to making the process of registering as dangerous for negroes as possible. the registration officials are seemingly engaged in a slowdown. since despite a court order requiring 100 applicants to be processed each day. mondays total of 70 was the highest to date actually to be processed. finally. even if these hurdles could be cleared. there remains alabamas literacy test. selmas pattern of resistance is clear egh . in one alabama county. where a federal referee has finally been appointed under the 1957 and 1960 civil rights acts. the only result has been an increased rate of flunking the literacy test. all these facts are before the federal courts in a half dozen pending lawsuits. four of them brought by the justice department. the arrests monday and yesterday and the summary contempt penalties meted out monday against some of the picketers should be added to the suits still pending before the threejudge federal district court. and i have asked the justice department to go into this question. i have every reason to believe that the department is alert to the events in selma and will move rapidly to obtain relief under the law where it can be obtained. however. there are apparently limits to the effectiveness of the federal law to protect voting rights. and the selma situation should also be watched closely to see whether additional law is  necessary. for. this crisis again underscores the need for legislative proposals to resolve this kind of seeming paralysis in the voting system of a state. it may well show that federal legislation is required authorizing the appointment of federal registrars who would themselves be empowered to register citizens to vote. the crucial point here is that this dangerous confrontation is avoidable. the people of selma have every reason to implement  what all america ks: that the right to vote is the very heart of the democratic system and will  be denied on grounds of race. color. religion. or national origin. to endeavor to do otherwise is to play king canute with the sea and jeopardizes domestic tranquillity and security. i deeply believe the people of selma can find the way if they determine in their minds to do so. my main reason for making this statement on the floor of the senate is that i do  believe that situations in the country as serious as this one. which is widely discussed and commented upon. should be merely swept under the rug and  ed in the senate. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record an editorial entitled "on winning the right to vote." from last nights new york post.
