. there appears to be a new orientation of russian policy in the cold war. this is intended to concentrate heavily upon an ecoic and trade war. that this is the new line in the soviet unions cold war is confirmed by its own ecoic buildup. by its ruthless integration of the ecoies of the satellite countries with its own and by its recent offers of trade. particularly to the united kingdom. italy. france. west germany. and japan. under these circumstances the objective of the free world must be to integrate itself. first to enable it to resist the attractions of communist bloc trade. and. second. to build up its strength ecoically to the maximum for the coming showdown in the ecoic cold war. accordingly. an active policy of ecoic integration of the free world is vital. this means a renewed effort to facilitate trade. to reduce and eliminate barriers and obstructions to world trade. to increase overseas private investment and ecoic and technical assistance in order to develop new sources of wealth. particularly in the underdeveloped areas and to rehabilitate the plants and equipment of the industrialized nations. rather than pulling in our programs for international cooperation. this is the moment for expansion. yet. majority congressional opinion appears to be moving in exactly the opposite direction. hence the reason for this speech. that much congressional opinion on this subject needs to change in the security interests of the united states and of the free world. such a change to a vigorous free world trade and ecoicdevelopment drive should be the basis of the new foreign policy of the new administration. discontent has broken out violently in czechoslovakia over the currency reform and the striking out in one blow of workers savings and signalling a drive to. exact harder work from the labor force and in east germany where the soviet unions relaxation of communization of the ecoy has only opened the floodgates to the feelings of the people against the communization which has already taken place. there are more sensitive areas among the soviet satellites than these two. a strong free world trade and ecoic development drive  has a good chance to detach these two satellites next. the soviet union and the communist bloc are ruthlessly establishing ecoic power which is likely to prove a greater threat to the free world than even the emous military strength and apparatus of subversion which the soviet union and its satellites have amassed. this ecoic exploitation of the satellites gives us a great opportunity. it must be significant to us that the greatest blow which the communist bloc has yet suffered. the defection of yugoslavia. was attributable to the efforts of the soviet union to bleed yugoslavia ecoically and that yugoslavias overtures for some form of support from the western world was for ecoic support. the opportunity to detach other satellites by ecoic means which. in the final analysis. will mean the end of the soviet challenge. is therefore very real and we can afford to overlook it. on the other hand. the attraction which the soviet union can exercise upon free powers. especially western powers like france and italy with huge communist parties already established in those countries. will more and more depend upon its ecoic power. the buildup of the communist blocs industrial power is really a serious threat to the free world. as reported by the united nations ecoic commission for europe in its recent report. we find a great increase in russian industrial productionin their case. war poten-" tialas compared with 1940. their production of coal is up from 166 million tons a year to 301 million tons. steel up from 18 million tons to 35 million tons. oil from 31 million tons to 47 million tons. -and in electric power they have gone up from generating 48 billion kilowatthours a year to generating 117 billion kilowatthours a year. according to the same source. similar increases are also shown in the satellite countries. electric power generated there has nearly doubled. there have been major increases in the production of steel. coal. and crude oil. there has been a vast expansion of the chemical industry and of the building industry in poland. east germany. and rumania. these are figures with serious implications for the free world. western europe is a population block about the equal of the soviet union and it outproduces the soviet union about 2 to 1 in such major industrial items as coal. steel. and electric power. there is still a great gap between the two. but the danger is in the intensity of the russian drive to narrow this gap. for example. in steel production the western european nations have added 12 million tons of new steel production to their ecoy since the war and the russians. having added about twice that amount in the same period. are planning to double their present capacity in the next 10 years. . when we look at the trade situation we again have reason to be very ieriously alarmed. the recent moscow conference attracted even united states businessmen and the actions of the representatives of the soviet. union in the recent session of the united nations ecoic commission for europe in both cases seeking actively to do business with the west are certainly indications of moscows trade drive. in addition. we are seeing stories in the newspapers of communist china offering western industrialists. principally those of western europe. as much as $2 billion to $2.250.000.000 worth of business a year in manufactured items. this is undoubtedly mostly propaganda but it certainly attracts a lot of attention and interest. we must recognize that there is very great danger in this situation for us because western europe as a bloc used to do about 39 percent of its total exports and get 28 percent of its total imports before world war ii in business with what is  the communist bloc of eastern europe. for example. most of western europes wheat. coal. sugar. and timber came from what is  the communist bloc. this trade has  fallen to 5 percent of western europes exports and imports as an element of the free worlds seeking to defend itself against communism.  it is very much to our interest to see that trade in strategic goods is eliminated and the western worlds dependence upon the soviet orbit is kept at a minimum. but obviously we can expect that western europe will go on at that rate unless there is some other outlet for its energies and for its exports because it must export in order to live and in order to buy the things it needs to feed. clothe. and house its peoples. also. japan did a vast business with what is  communist china and is in urgent need of markets elsewhere to replace our direct and indirect korean war expenditures of close to $1 billion when they come to an end. the subordination of seven eastern european countries to soviet power has netted the u. s. s. r. material profits. expanded the realm of the communist. system. and increased the kremlins political and military power in the world. conversely. the controlled countries have suffered material losses. have had their social structures revolutionized against the majority will. and have lost their sovereignty in all but name. the kremlin appears to have two broad ecoic goals in eastern europe: first. to rebuild the satellite ecoies on the soviet pattern. and. second. to utilize them to the limit for its own strategic and ecoic purposes. for a tool to assist in accomplishing these goals moscow created the council of ecoic mutual aidcemain january 1949. this was to be the communist answer to the marshall plan. it was supposedly to represent a group of sovereign countries. namely the u. s. s. r. and its eastern european assosciates. but equality among. the members was highly improbable from the very beginning. in practice it has been totally dominated by the soviet union and its every effort has been directed toward making the region serve moscows political and ecoic goals.
