. the vietnam war. the middle east crisis. and efforts for a nuclear proliferation treaty are among the issues which have brought the united states and the soviet union into varying degrees of contact in an attempt to establish some rapport and search for a key to agreement. however. able success has been achieved in any area. it is therefore reasonable to ask why. and to examine the more constant underlying attitudes of the soviet union. my colleague. the gentleman from ohio. congressman robert taft. jr.. was among three members of the european subcommittee of the house foreign affairs committee who recently visited the u.s.s.r. they interviewed at length a number of groups of soviet officials. press representatives. the moscow rabbi. as well as the u.s. press correspondents and u.s. officials in moscow. including ambassador llewellyn thompson.
. during the past few days there have been many statements and articles critical of the possible sale of american f5 aircraft to certain latin american countries. most of these remarks appear to be conditioned reflexes more than reasoned judgments. the question of arms sales to underdeveloped nations is a very difficult one which usually presents itself in the form of unattractive alternatives. which alternative is the lesser evil will depend  on doctrinal attitude but upon a closer view of the particular question at hand. a careful and objective analysis of the problem was presented recently by the distinguished columnist. carl rowan. his comments should be read by all of us who serve in this body. under unanimous consent i include mr. rowans column at this point in the record: critics hit straw men on latin arms (by carl t. rowan) "beggars cant be choosey." that is the substance of what senator wayne morse and likethinking americans keep urging the state department to say to peru and other latin american countries. and it is precisely this insulting sense. growing out of illconsidered ions of liberalism. that is going to plunge the united states into deeper and deeper trouble in latin america. i am referring specifically to the weeks of haggling over whether or  the united states ought to sell throp f5a fighter planes to peru. brazil and other latin countries. morse and some of his colleagues constantly fulminate about an "arms race" in latin america. they imply that the selflish oligarchies in these countries are taking milk out of the mouths of babes by squandering the continents resources on military toys for overpowerful armies and air forces. critical as i am. on some counts. of the latin american oligarchy and the military rulers. the truth is that morse and his colleagues are mostly shadowboxing at straw men. sol m. liitz. himself a distinguished liberal and u.s. envoy to the organization of american states. said this to the interamerican press association last thursday: "latin america spends less on arms than any other part of the world. approximately 90 percent of its military expenditures is for upkeep of military and defense establishments and only 10 percent is for acquisition of new military equipment. in fact. in the past 20 years defense budgets as a proportion of total expenditures have dropped 80 percent." the second error the morse crowd makes is that it shows a lack of kledge of human nature. it is absurd to think any latin country is going to be without a military machinesurely  after the cuban experience. and civilian leaders are going to have to keep the military leaders reasonably pacified in order to maintain civilian control and move steadily away from the pathetic old days of military coups and countercoups. and military leader is going to stay pacified if his forces are limited to horses and buggies while the rest of the world flies supersonic jets. thus. it is the most reasonable thing in the world for peruvian leaders to try to buy the f5. a moreorless supersonic fighter. to replace their obsolete. dangerous aircraft. but morse and other congressmen have urged the united states to adopt a policy of denial of such aircraft to countries like peru and brazil. the argument. le on its face. is that people are hungry in all these countries. so it is sinful to waste meager resources on planes and other arms. the trouble is that it is the united states that is the big waster of resources on tools of death and destruction. and the united states has more impoverished people than any country in the hemisphere with the probable exceptions of brazil and mexico. so it was a case of big daddy uncle sam saying to the little lati: "dont do as i do. do as i say." any latiaudacious egh to mention this aloud was to be quickly told: "the difference. you see. is that we are wasting our own money. we arent asking for foreign aid from anyone." and that is just an arrogant. terriblydiplomatic way of saying. "beggars cant be choosey." the state department is to be commended for facing a troublesome reality and authorizing belatedly the f5 sales despite certain kledge that it would produce aher scream from morse. characteristically. the oregon democrat ed that had state  done so the peruvians might have bought costlier. faster mirage v aircraft from france. "what we should have said." morse argued. "is go and buy them from france and get your aid from france. too." when we have a supposedly liberal. enlightened senator who thinks the state department ought to be constantly reminding people that they are taking handouts from uncle sam. and warning them that this obligates them to tailor their policies to our bidding. there can be little wonder that we are occasionally held in contempt by people who really wish to be our friends.
 nixons decision. annced yesterday. to invoke similar restrictions on military aid to india. i believe this action is both consistent and in accord with u.s. policy objectives. it is high time. . that we speak plainly on this subject: the major supplier of military equipment to india is  the united states. but the soviet union. the most important supplier of arms to pakistan is china. we must recognize. and the world community must recognize. that this is one of the worlds problems which can be resolved by unilateral action on the part of any power. including the united states. we must. however. understand that what transpires in the subcontinent is of direct importance to the united states. as it is to other nations of the world. for a war involving india. pakistan. the soviet union. and china would affectmore than 50 percentof the population of this planet. the failure of the united nations security council to act in this situation is deplorable. but it is also. perhaps. predictable. if a veto by one of the councils members is a foregone conclusion. useful purpose is served by formally insoribing the indopakistani question on the agendaor at least this is the argument. in fact. it is for this reason. in part. that nation has as yet requested the council to consider the matter. moreover. the secretary generals recent initiative. offering his "good offices" to both participants in the dispute. has been rejected by india. while the official pakistani request that u.n. observers be stationed in east pakistan is futile in the absence of authority from the security council. the danger to world peace inherent in the existing situation can be overstated. and i urge the united states to use its full diplomatic resources in order to convene a meeting of the powers most directly concerned. including india. pakistan. the soviet union. and the peoples republic of china. to explore ways and means whereby the fighting may be terminated and a political accommodation may be found. time is of the essenceand time is running out.
. it is with the deepest sense of loss and sorrow that i join my colleagues today in paying tribute to one of this nations and the worlds greatest internationalist and statesmen. dr. ralph j. bunche. throughout his life. from the early days at ucla. harvard. and howard university. to his work in the state department and finally as under secretary general for special political affairs. ralph bunche worked tirelessly against hate and intolerance. his dream was for peace and understanding among all people of all races. all religions. and all countries. and to this goal he devoted his life. all of us k of the skill and patience with which dr. bunche painstakingly mediated the 1949 armistice argeement between israel and the arab states. a role into which he was suddenly thrust after the assassination of the original chief mediator. count folke bernadotte. and which he carried out with drive and dedication. a master in the practical application of psychology. he successfully negotiated vastly complex problems. centuries old and rife with racial and religious prejudicies. and as he himself expressed so well. "for the first time found a way to use military men for peace instead of war." in due recognition of dr. bunches role as architect of the palestine accord. he received the el peace prize of 1950. an ho which he continued to earn for the next two decades. as. among other things. he directed peacekeeping efforts in the suez area in 1956. the congo in 1960. and cyprus in 1964. always with the view of using troops as part of broader efforts to stimulate negotiations and obtain a peaceful settlement of conflict. his diplomatic skills. his ability to grasp a situation and to time his movements accordingly shall long be remembered and admired. and there is country which does  mourn the loss of this hoable and hoed man. who contributed so significantly to the pursuit of world peace. ralph bunche was truly a great man. serving capably and selflessly for justice. equality. and international peace. and it is sadly ironic that his death should occur at a time when the world faces a new outbreak of war in asia and continued uncertainty in the middle east. we must. however. redouble our efforts for the world peace and understanding toward which dr. bunche strove. and his quiet firmness. his wisdom and objectivity. his fervent desire for human equality. and unfailing faith in the ultimate role of the united nations should serve as an example for us all. for . the greatest tribute which we can pay to this truly le man is the successful conclusion of his crusade. the fulfillment of his dream.
. this is a very simple and. i believe. a very direct amendment. it encourages direct talks amongst the parties to the dispute in the near east. using such third party or u.n. assistance as they may wish. it is consistent with the u.s. position and consistent with the draft resolution that the united states offered at the united nations on june 13. 1967. further. it is consistent with the charter of the united nations. which calls on the parties to any dispute in the first instance to try to settle it themselves. i believe that meaningful progress toward a permanent peace and  aher armistice in the near east requires that there be recognition of the merits of direct talks and. where possible. that the united states should facilitate this.
i thank the miity leader and the.senator from iowa. . we have already seen what can happen when new cycles of the arms racr are begun. when the soviet union acquircd a nuclear capability. our own program was vastly accelerated. when soviet weapons were deployed in central europe. france devoted resources it could ill afford to develop an independent nuclear capability. when communist china detonated a nuclear explosion. the soviet union began to de ploy a limited antimissile system. and the united states initiated an extended debatewhich is still far from resolvedon the question of deploying a costly and complicated antimissile system of our own. each stage in the arms race has led to a vastly expanded and infinitely more costly level of techogical development. nation even the united states or the soviet union. and certainly  the developing states of the worldcan afford to devote increasing billions of dollars to a costly arms race of questionable utility. on the grounds of ecoy. on grounds of national security. on grounds of political wisdom. this treaty is a singular accomplishment. as general wheeler testified before the armed services committee. this treaty in way detracts from needed american military options.  does it add to our countrys military burdens. indeed. i think the only fair judgment is that it greatly reduces the likely dimensions of our military problems in the years ahead. furthermore. and most important. i believe this treaty is a necessary prelude to other attempts at developing stable arms control arrangements between the nuclear powers. if it serves its purposes of inhibiting the spread of nuclear weapons. the intense concentration of energies on strictly strategic and military efforts can gradually be shifted to diplomatic exploration of alternative concerted diplomacy approaches to safeguarding the peace of the world. in short. this is aher building block in the structure of peace to which every human being should be dedicated. ratification of this treaty can be a vital step toward applying the brakes to the arms race. it will stand as a vote of confidencein ourselves. our allies. the neutral nations. and yes. even our enemies. as riders together on the spaceship earth. we share a common interest in keeping all hands off the lever marked selfdestruct. let us set the example to the world. and proudly uphold it. let us commit ourselves to the limited provisions of this treaty. let us encourage others to do likewise. and let us get on with the job of building together a better world for all.
. to the point i had reached at the time when the senate took its recess yesterday evening. i was then discussing the. importance. to my mind. of maintaining military unity among the united nations in time of peace as well as in time of war. in the midst of that argument i said that it is obviously to the advantage of each of the member nations of the united nations to continue some such association. .it is obviously unnecessary to destroy the unity of such nations through the discussion of proposed changes in the form in which such military relationship shall continue in the days after the armistice. as compared with the days before the armistice. if need be. it can continue in precisely the same form as that of the military association which  exists. and that would eliminate the necessity for considering any amendment of form at the time. a furthei reason for emphasizing the wisdom of this continued military unity among the united nations is found in the development of aviation since world war  1. in past ages. and even at the end of world war  1. the military -unity of the allies and any program of continued association of their military forces was seriously handicapped in its practical value by the great difficulty of -sending those forces to the point of danger in sufficient time to check military aggression at its inception. in this regard. an analogy to a city fire department is helpful. it is well recognized in firefighting policy that while there is value in highly developed firefighting equipment. the greatest and most practical value of any fire department rests upon its ability to reach a fire quickly while the fire still is small. if the department can get there quickly .most fires can be extinguished with a bucket of water or a single fire extinguisher. on the other hand. if the most .highly developed fire engine is slow in .getting to the fire it can do little more than to let the fire burn itself out and to attempt to control its spread to other areas. with the development of aviation to the extraordinary degree of efficiency which it has attained in this war. it becomes possible for the first time in the history of the world for those nations which dominate the air  only to dominate the military situation. but to reach any new point of danger almost immediately and on short ice. most points are far nearer to the important capitals of the world than a 60hour flight. when the united nations win world war  2 they will at the same time have demonstrated their dominance of the air. their continued military unity in the postwar period. expressed especially through military aviation. will enable them to maintain military stability and to suppress military aggression in a far more effective manner than ever before has been possible. the enlarged navies of the world will also be available for global service on a scale heretofore impossible. the increased value of military aviations adds much new practicality to the maintenance of the military stability in the world. it provides also for some continued appropriate use of a part of the tremendous investment in military aviation equipment which will be available at the conclusion of the war. this maintenance of the united strength of the military. naval. and air forces of the allies will be far more ecoical than could be any program of competitive armaments. the one international course which thus seems clear above all others in the light of our experience in this war and in the light of our having suffered two great wars in the same generation is that we should retain intact in time of.peace at least the military unity among all of the united nations which has made that peace possible in the face of. the greatest attack upon civilization in the history of the world. i may say here that this is  required by senate resolution 192 as introduced. but as i shall demonstrate later it is required by our proposed amendment to that resolution. added to the immediate military effect of this policy of continued military unity. it has at least two important indirect effects in the ecoic. social. and political fields. first. it gives to the many smaller and weaker nations a natural chance for survival. their safety is best secured through this means. in their safety from military aggression lies the foundation of their otherwise completely uncertain ecoic. social. and political stability. correspondingly. because of the assurance of such safety. their primary reasons for upsetting the ecoic. social. and political structure of the world in their own respective interests longer becomes a controlling consideration. without this assurance their very struggle for survival introduces endless complications and uncertainties into the peace of the world in the future. asit has in the past. secondly in such a situation. for example. as faces russia. the best alternative that can be suggested to her anxiety for controlled or allied buffer province. or states is the substantial eliminaton of danger to her from beyond her borders. as long as the united nations maintain in peace the same -military unity that they have in this war there is little need for russia to arm herself against the world. a substitution of such an accord. to be of the greatest value. requires that its extent be of the greatest scope. a universal accord would make separate large individual military expenditures and defenses both unnecessary and contrary to the spirit of the accord.
. the statement i am about to submit is a report on the war program and future policy of the united states in th africa and the middle east. this statement supplements the preliminary report made to the special senate committee investigating the national defense program.  kn as the mead committee. by its subcommittee on th africa and the middle east. it is based upon the trip to that area taken by the senator from delaware and myself december 28. 1944. to january 18. 1945. this statement also supplements the comments on that trip already made to the senate by the senator from delaware as chairman of the subcommittee. as the preliminary report has been made available to the senate and contains the conclusions and recommendations of the subcommittee and as the comments of the senator from delaware contain a description of the trip with comments on what the subcommittee observed. i shall direct this statement primarily to an analysis of the lessons which i believe can be drawn from the trip. i shall do this under six headings: first. the trip illustrates the feasibility of legislative investigations by the united states senate outside of continental united states. second. a need exists for improved coordination among agencies of the united states abroad. third. a need exists for a clear. vigorous policy as to investments of the united states abroad. fourth. suggestions as to the united nations relief and rehabilitation administrationu. n. r. r. a.. fifth. petroleum in the middle east. sixth. th africa and the middle east are a proving ground for a constructive. vigorous foreign policy of the united states.
. . turning to the other capacity in which the security council is authorized to act. we should consider its position as an enforcement agency. in this capacity. it assumes the duties of a sheriff. in order to assist it in the performance of these duties it is supplied with armed forces. its decision to act as an enforcing agency. either through the use of ecoic sanctions or of the armed forces supplied to it. requires an affirmative vote of seven of its members. and such seven must include the concurring vote .of all of the permanent members whether or  they are parties to the dispute. this gives a full veto power to each of the five permanent members of the council. the united states. great britain. russia. china. and france. they in turn are also the nations which will supply the major portions of the armed forces which would be used in military enforcement procedures. while there may be arguments against this veto power. yet. in view of the source of the armed forces to be supplied the security council. there are probably at the present time compelling arguments in favor of this veto power if limited to decisions on enforcement issues. the use of such a veto power upon the issue of whether or  the security council shall use the armed forces of the united nations presents quite a different question from the use of the veto power on a recommendation of terms of peaceful settlement. the armed forces of the united nations are primarily those of the five permanent members of the security council itself. to call out these forces for use against one of the five permanent members would be much like calling upon the sheriff to arrest himself. the incongruity of such action is recognized in the statutes of our respective states. for example. it is frequently provided that in such an instance some other official of that state. for example. the coroner. shall exercise the authority of .the sheriff. here the difficulty is even greater. there are substantial forces other than those of these permanent members which could possibly be used to apply armed force to the other permanent members. to make such an order would be an express order to start world war iii. if the defendent physically resisted the enforcement of the decision against it. the veto right in such a case is. therefore. a straightforward way of recognizing the limitation of the powers of enforcement that are inherent in this charter. it is important that nation under the charter of the united nations shall be cdlled upon to perform an obligation which. when the time comes to perform it. it is likely to refuse to perform. it is quite likely that if a permanent member of the security council were. by the terms of the charter. called upon to use its own armed forces against itself. or even against aher major power. it would decline to do so. furthermore. if such a provision were incorporated in the. instrument. it is altogether. likely that the instrument shall fail of ratification by some of the nations most vitally concerned. it might lead to its failure of ratification by the united states itself. accordingly. the incorporation of this veto power to be exercised by anyone of the permanent members of the security council over the use of the armed forces of the united nations is by means a provision which would justify a refusal to ratify the instrument as a treaty. it might be suggested that the veto should be limited to the use of a nations own quota of the armed forces of the united nations. rather than to the use of any part or all of those forces. it apparently has been determined that such a contention at this time. however. would  be acceptable and therefore it should  be pressed. insofar as the united states is concerned. to say hing of the other nations sponsoring the charter. the presence of this veto power which permits the united states to veto the use of armed forces. of the united nations either against itself or against any other nation is a strong argument in favor of the special interests of the united states under the charter. to the extent that. such a veto power cuts off the use of the armed forces of the united nations at the option of any one of the permanent members of the council. it is a limitation upon the united nations as an enforcing agency. this limitation should be clearly recognized as such. we should then recur to the fact that this entire proposal depends upon the concurrence. in it of at least five major allies as the foundation of its structure. without this limitation it is clear that the consent of the. five could   be obtained and the charter should  be rejected merely because it does  accomplish what is at the moment impossible. namely. the securing of the voluntary agreement of the five major nations to permit the use of the combined armed forces of those nations against themselves. or against others. without a final individual opportunity to veto such a use in the light of the conditions at that time. it is to be hoped that disputes endangering the peace of the world will be adjusted before ever reaching such a crisis. the charter is intended to make it as unlikely as possible that such a crisis will be reached. but even with this veto power upon their use. the existence of the proposed armed forces of the united nations. subject to the call of the security council. will provide an important added assurance of the possibility of maintaining the peace of the world. as against all except the five nations which hold a veto power over their use. these forces will be immediately available or readily on call in accordance with the terms of the charter. they will constitute an effective peace force. they are an expression on the part of the great championship military team of the allied nations that that team stands• ready to enforce international law and justice throughout the world for thesake..of the peace of the * world and in accordance with the allied * nations demonstrated capacity to de. fend the world against aggressibn. :our sacrifices•in world wari are sufficient reasons for our seeking in this added way to prevent the outbreak of world war iii and to put an end to such a new war. if there should be one.. while it is in such an early stage that this can be done with a minimum of further sacrifice. by way of concrete example. aher threatened invasion of ethiopia by italy. of poland by germany. or of manchuria by japan. under this charter could and should be. stopped at an early stage through the use of the armed forces of the united nations under direction of the security council. however. in the absence of some such charter. some such mechanism of peace. and some such enforcing agency. a renewed attack of the kind which led to world war ii might all too readily lead to. world war. iii * and our generation would be inexcusably to blame for having taken constructive measures to prevent the recurrence of that tragedy. accordingly. the powers of the security council coupled with the armed forhs of the united nations. although limited by the right of veto. on the part of a permanent member of the council. provides an important argument in favor of the ratification and against the rejection of the united nations charter as a step toward the maintenance of international peace and security. in order. that all members of the united nations may actively help to maintain international peace and secu• rity in time of crisis and against aggressors. they undertake to make available to the security council. on its call and in accordance with a special agreement or agreements. armed forces. assistance. and . facilities. including right of passage necessary for the purpose of maintaining international peace and security.. these agreements shall govern the numbers and types of forces. their degree of .readiness and general location. and the na•ture of the facilities aind assistance to be provided. the agreements are to be negotiated as soon as possible on the initiative of the security council and member states. or between the security council and groups of member states. all such agreements are to be subject to ratification by the signatory states in accordance with their constitutional processes. in order to enable urgent military measures to be taken by the united nations. there are to be held immediately available by its members national airforce contingents for combined international enforcement action. there is also to be established a military staff committee. its functions shall be to advise and assist the security council on all questions relating to the councils military requirements for the maintenance of international peace and security. to the employment and command of forces placed at its disposal. to the regulation .of armaments and to possible disarmament. . it shall be responsible under the security council forthe. stiategic direction of any armed forces placed at the disposal ofthe council." the committee shall be composed of the chiefs of staff of the permanent members of the security council or their representatives. any member of the united nations  permanently represented on the committee is to be invited by the committee to be associated with it when the efficient discharge of the committees responsibilities requires that such a state should participate in its work. the staff committee. with the authorization of the council. after consultation with regional agencies. may also establish military subcommittees. in substance. the armed forces of the united nations are to be a smaller edition of the allied armed forces mobilized and used in much the same manner as has bden the case during world war ii. these armed forces are  to be in a group separated from the control of their respective nations. they merely are assigned to the united nations campaigns as they would be to any. of their own nations campaigns. this retention of connections between these troops and their own nationsis due in part to the fact that a modern army can exist apart from the sources of supply of its modern equipment. there is such thing as a selfsufficient armed force. an armed force of today requires  only men in uniform supplied with arms and ammunition. it needs. also. airplanes and back of them airplane factories and back of them aluminum production plants and -back of them great sources of electric power. and coupled with these there must be available great sources of supply of food. clothing. and the many incidental -items that go into the manufacture of modern fighting equipment. the armed forces of the united nations will be. therefore. an allied force comparable to that used in world war ii. but greatly reduced in size and cost. this reduction will reflect the reduced need for allied armed forces in the light of the allied victory over all enemy forces of the world and in the. light of. the continuing cooperation of the allied nations through the formation of the united nations. dedicated to the maintenance of international peace and security. the effect of the security council as an enforcement agency is therefore to provide added unity and stability in a manner that may aid materially in maintaining international peace and security.
i join my colleagues in the senate in expressing appreciation to the senator from minnesota for his effort in this field which has extended over many years. and for his persistence and intelligence and effectiveness. as a cosponsor of the bill with the senator from minnesota. i am happy that this landmark has been reached through his hard work and effort. i join with other senators wholeheartedly in the words of praise they have bestowed upon the senator from minnesota. madam president. as a cosponsor of s. 2180. i should like to address myself to one of the objections which has been raised to it. some have contended that an expanded disarmament agency of this nature could only serve to foster the making of concessions by this country to its adversaries. i submit. madam president. that this misses the point entirely. the proposed disarmament agency would strengthen the hand of the united states in international affairs. it would do so by giving our government the highest technical competence in the increasingly complex field of disarmament. we need such competence. from the standpoint of being able to present the most effective proposals for arms control we can devise. in the very interests of protecting our national security. this agency would give the united states a means of king what we can safely do and what we can safely do in this field. a kledge which has  always been available to us in the past. supporters of this legislation. men such as former president eisenhower. disarmament adviser mccloy. former united nations ambassador lodge. chairman of the joint chiefs of staff general lemnitzer. and former nato commander general gruenther. have illusions about the nature of the enemy or about the requirements of defense. rather the reverse is true. they are among the highest authorities on matters of national security. and their views are entitled to the highest respect. they have all spoken out vigorously in support of the proposed legislation. i urge the passage of s. 2180 in the interest of our national security as well as americas longstanding commitment to explore every reasonable approach to peace with justice.
. i fully support the chairman of my committee. the committee on foreign relations. in this action. i think it is appropriate and i think it is timely. everything he has said about the history of our discussion of the return of the control of foreign aid to the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign relations is. of course. accurate and correct. and i think the conditions which have been laid down by general consent for the return of that jurisdiction. or of that matter to our jurisdiction. have been met clearly. unless we are to assume that we are going to be indefinitely in a state of war in that part of the world. i think it is clear that the people of the country and the congress. certainly the senate. do  want that to happen. i think it is clear also that so long as the matter of funding military assistance to these two countries is handled through the defense appropriation bill and the defense department. we will never k exactly how much we are spending. even within the range of hundreds of millions of dollars a year. and that. in the interest of proper ecoy. proper sunervision. and orderly handling of foreign relations. we ought to cease this schism. to end it. and bring back foreign aid. military as well as ecoic. to the single jurisdiction of one committee. so that it can exercise its proper role of oversight. authorization. and guidance for policy in this most important matter. i fully support the amendment. and i hope it will receive unanimous support.
. as i have said. i am sure that  everyone will be satisfied with this legislation. it is  possible to draw legislation that is satisfactory in circumstances such as we face here. but i do believe that in its own way it does provide a kind of guidance for the sort of action that this country ought to take. in respect of the $100 million humanitarian assistance fund. i thoroughly agree with the authorization for the expenditure of that through the united nations and through private agencies as the right way to do it. and the only way to do it. perhaps this will be a forerunner of an international relief effort to correct things there. and to help the people who have so grievously suffered the devastation of war for so many. many years.
. submission by the united nations to british tactics of delay and befuddlement on palestine are bringing the united states face to face with the same situation we encountered in greece. and our action will have to be just as decisive. the refusal of the united nations security council under british leadership to brand the palestine war as a threat to the peace. and the seizure by leba of american citizens from american soil. the marine carp. at beirut. including a citizen from my district traveling to palestine to visit relatives with an american passport and a british visa. all show that both britain and the arab states have lost their heads. it is time for us to show that we are conscious of our traditions. our dignity and our interests: first. by coming to the aid of israel as we came to the aid of greece when she was attacked by external forces of aggression and her independence threatened. and i am introducing a bill this week for that purpose. second. by following the lead annced by the chairman of the appropriations committee of the other body. to check britain in using our money directly or indirectly to foment aggressive war by the arab states in the middle east. and. third. by demanding from leba the immediate release of the 40 american citizens taken off the marine carp. as well as a suitable apology and indemnity. in the spirit of theodore roosevelt and john hay expressed by: "perdicaris alive or raisuli dead."
. i favor the pending resolution and i hope the house will pass it. it is an elementary. humanitarian measure in the great american tradition to help the inent victims of war in a turbulent area of the worldan area critically important to our national security. these arab refugees left their homes because of the war situation and the urging of misguided arab leaders. they are  encamped in the arab areas of palestine and in the surrounding countries ably in syria. leba and transjordan. which just can support them. their distiess is very grave. the united nations has undertaken their relief as a part of its general effort to bring about stability and peace in the middle east between israel and the arab states. the palestine conciliation commission 3reated by the united nations of which the united states. france and turkey are the members. will deal with this problem of the palestine refugees as one of the problems in the peace. in order to forward the work of the commission and give it conditions under which it has a fair chance of success. these arab refugees must be succored. the whole middle east will appreciate the cooperation and generosity of the united states in relieving the distress of these refugees. it will also enable a resettlement -program to be proceeded with in an orderly way. the congress by enacting this resolution will be making a real contribution to the final settlement. with justice. which we all so fervently desire for the middle east.
. i take the time of the committee of the whole today to call attention to a leading story in the new york times headed "prestige of britain in germany found dangerously low." which will be found in the appendix.. this story is the culmination of a whole series which have preceded it. it shows that in the current political campaign to elect a new german federal government on august 14. less than a week away. the politicians are vying with each other as to who can advocate the greatest resurgence of that unique german brand of nationalism. it is a brand which has brought on two world wars during my adult life and that of every member of this housea brand which cost us a million casualties in world war it. the story quotes a high british occupation official as saying: i think we made a great mistake in concentrating our intelligence services on what the russians and the german communists were doing in germany and  worrying egh about what the communist germans were doing or planning to do. the danger we face from a revival of aggressive german nationalism is a germansoviet alliance. the families of the 1.000.000 american casualties in world war ii can never forget that such an alliance was the signal for war in 1939. russian manpower and fanaticism. joined with german technical resources and skill in military organization could be the solutionsought by totalitarians of the left and right alikeas to how american might could be broken. the occupation statute of april 10. 1949. and the charter of the allied high commission for germany. signed by the united states. great britain. and france in paris on june 20. 1949. under which our high commissioner. john j. mccloy. functions. states that each high commissioner in his area should be responsible for insuring the protection. prestige. and immunities of the allied forces of occupation. of the allied occupation authorities. their dependents. employees. and official representatives and in this respect his authority is superior to that of any german government. therefore. right . our high commissioner. seeking the concurrence of the other high commissioners. but acting alone if necessary. should annce. first. that aggressive german nationalism will  be tolerated in a new federal german government. second. that interference with the agreedupon dismantling program will be considered a violation of the occupation statute. and. third. that new and vigorous efforts will be inaugurated to review the records of former nazi bigwigs who operate in high places. especially in business and industry. with a view toward their being summarily fired. germans understand determination and should also  forget that it costs a billion dollars a year of the united states taxpayers money to feed them and that for this we do  expect to recreate hitlers germany. there need be argument in this respect with those who oppose certain specific aspects of the dismantling program. i am sure even these opponents will  want to miss the forest for the trees. they will  want to play into the hands of germanys supernationlists by undermining the authority and prestige of our high commissioner and the french and british high commissioners. for i am convinced that anyone who studies the facts can convince himself that there is an emousperhaps a prevailingopinion still in germany that it is "deutschland uber alles" as before. and that any useful ally for the purpose. including the soviet union and the international communist movement. will be acceptable again as they were before. in less than a week the whole future of peace may be irretrievably compromised in the german elections. the time for vigilance is  pastit has just begun.
. we have heard a considerable amount of enlightening debate on this subject and we will hear more first. let me state briefly why i believe this legislation must be passed in the national security interest of the united states. we are dealing here with 350.000.000 people ii south asia out of a total of roughly 700.000.000 people who are left in the list of the free peoples in that area of the world. the new republic of india came into being only on january 26. 1950. having received its independent status in august of 1947. the subcontinent of india is the fulcrum of asia. a state that is directly on the border of china. and. therefore. certainly influenced by the fact that communism has triumphed in china and that china has a rampant army of something in the neighborhood of two to four million men. for the relief of distress in india we are asked to make an investment. asked to make a loan to this nation. to this government which has  defaulted on any of its external debts. a loan to relieve an urgent famine situation. there is some argument that we should turn our back on this nation and run the risk of jeopardizing the one remaining really big anchor that the free peoples have in asia. it seems almost inconceivable that that argument can be made in the face of the evidence before us. why is it made. first. it is said that india is  our declared ally against the soviet bloc. second. that the famine is really  serious. and third. that we should get strategic materials from india. it is perfectly clear that the people of india are a free people today. and if any evidence of that is required. it is shown by many facts. for example. 43 deputies of the indias parliament had perfect freedom to send a communication by cable to the congress of the united states about this very foodaid bill. the only thing that mr. nehru could do about it was to lecture them on the fact that that was  the way to run a government. in other words. that india could  conduct her affairs by having individual representatives of what is tantamount to their congress communicate with aher sovereign power. secondly. this dr. kumarrapa. whose speech has been read here in part and referred to several times. i think his actions and statements prove that india is a very free country. the government of india said that dr. kumarrapa had a perfect right to state his own position as a lecturer in the united states in his private capacity. this is the official statement dated march 9. 1951: he is authorized to speak for the government of india only in the social commission of the united nations to which he is a delegate on subjects coming up before that commission in accordance with the governsments instructions. then they add: any views expressed by him on topics outside the commission or on topics other than those before it are his own. and the government has responsibility for them. he was completely repudiated. and everything he said was completely repudiated by the government of india. but he was  jailed for saying it. let us see about indias record in the united nations. despite the fact she is sitting on the doorstep of communist china. it is my recollection she did join originally in one of the key votes when the question of sending u. n. forces in to repel aggression in korea was concerned. away back in june she joined i recall. with other united nations powers in asking that action be taken to stop aggression in korea. since that time it is a fact that she has abstained in the united nations in respect of condemning the aggression of the communist chinese and a declaration of an embargo on shipping war materials to communist china. there is condoning that. it is our mission to try to win india over to our side.  33% percent as demonstrated by the three votes i have described. but by 100 percent. . what is the way to win her over. to hit her over the head or to let millions of her people starve to death. or shall we win her over on the relatively cheap basis of giving her this essential food aid. the answer is self evident.
that is the ambit of the gentlemans understanding of this problem. for the anticommunist war is  alone in korea where we are fighting. it is  alone in indochina where the french are fighting. and it is  alone in malaya where the british are fighting. it is. and i believe the american people understand thoroughly. a single global anticommunist struggle. and that what the french are doing in indochina. what the british -are doing in malaya. and what we are doing in korea is all in the nature of one anticommunist war.
i thank the senator for his observation. i think he has helped me demonstrate my point. and for this reason: i said that i hear  the same arguments i heard in 1948. and i think that is true. what the senator has pointed out is that the proponents of foreign aid have learned a great many things. i hasten to add. indeed we have. we have learned a great many things ourselves. and we are trying to put them into effect. i think this idea of a development loan over a period of time is a distinct improvement. i am for it. i wish to point out that the gentleman from ohio . a member of the house of representatives. advocated it for a very long time and i worked with him on a good many occasions. as to the senators observation that we shall have control over this authorization because we make it for the years ahead. there. too. i point out that any congress can annul anything that any other congress has done. this is only an authorization bill.  a single dollar can be obligated under this bill until it is appropriated. this congress and every other succeeding congress must make an appropriation. i have a tremendous regard and respect for my colleague the senator from wyoming. i think we represent mal differences on a very basic issue. i respectfully submit that an analysis of the arguments will bear out what i have said. i hope my colleague will do me the great ho of standing by and listening to the arguments and himself checking the arguments that have been made before and time and time again since. i do  want to be absolute and doctrinaire about it and say hing new has been learned by the opponent and i would withdraw such an absolute statement by the same arguments in substance are still made by most opponents of foreign aid. but the proponents have learned a lot. because their minds have been open to what is happening in the worldi think that is the fundamental issue. first. it is said we are engaged in giveaways. "giveaways" is a word that has been used constantly. we hear it all the time. we hear it said there should  be such giveaways at a time when we need schools. housing. help for the aged. help for the youth. public works of various kinds. and when we ought to be reducing taxes. i agre with all of those objectives but i do  see that it means kking out foreign aid. let us test that argument. one engages in a giveaway when he gives something to somebody unnecessarily. it is  engaging in giveaways when we give something to somebody that is conducive to our own security and to furthering our own policy. also. used in the same context in which it is used in the arguments. we would be giving away something when we give it to somebody who is doing very well and who does  need it. some of us k the difficulty of trying to give a gift to someone who already has everything. by either analogy. what we are doing is  a giveaway. first of all. the overwhelming amount of money involved in this measure and in the preceding foreignaid measures goes directly for military equipment and military preparation on the part of our allies in the free world. either in terms of hardware. training. or food. or other items which are necessary to equip armies. so it is  a giveaway to fortify our military strength in that way. practically everybody has agreed that the military assistance phases of the program are all right. i point out to my colleague. the senator from wyoming. that i read with interest the remarks in opposition to this proposal by the very distinguished senior senator from oregon. who is a friend of mine. and for whom i have a high regard. he. too. says. at page 6 of the miity views: this country needs allies and. in some cases. extraordinary military and support aid may be necessary to assistthem in resisting dangerous totalitarian pressures from within and without. that was true when nato was organized. every report of every committee that has reported upon this subject accepts that pretty much without question. there are some differences on details. on whether it is being done efficiently or . but the fundamental principle of military assistance is accepted. i come  to the question of ecoic aid. it means $600 million a year. when we strip it of all the military phases of the program. when it is broken down. we find that half of that amount actually will go to the great majority of underdeveloped countries like korea. formosa. vietnam. and turkey. and similar nations where even military ecoic assistance is directly tied into the overall national security situation. there is a very interesting article in the new york herald tribune of today which illustrates this point. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i also wish to state for the record a brief word of congratulation in regard to henry a. byroade. of indiana. whose ination to be u.s. ambassador to afghanistan has  been confirmed. as i knew him when he was an army colonel in washington.
i have the ho to be chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarian conference. cv291 which is composed of representatives of .the 16 members of nato. in the committee we have dealt with this problem. we have had made a study of the question of international commodity prices. and how the u.s.s.r.s efforts in this field can literally destroy underdeveloped countries. we have come to the conclusionalthough the conclusion has  yet been actually incorporated into a resolutionthat the soundest procedure is to enable the country itself to carry through the swing when a damaging price situation affects it. for if it can carry through the low point. it will again be able to come out on top. this turns out to be one of the most priceless services which the fund renders. so much for the fund. i think it is extremely important for the american taxpayer to realize how vital in the cold war it is. for the reasons i have just given this increase in the resources of the fund. which is a most valuable asset to the ecoy of the whole free world and its stability. should be authorized.  about the international bank for reconstruction and development. there is question that there exists a tremendous deficiency in international capitalboth public and privateto do the job of assisting underdeveloped areas. if we continue to invest privately and publicly by way of the foreign aid programs for underdeveloped areas. year after year. and go on developing them year after year. as is  being done. we will end up in about two decades from  with ourselves having improved our standard of living by 50 percent. but the underdeveloped areas will be able to improve theirs by only 30 percent. that is completely unacceptable to them. we have the words of their spokesmen in the united nations and elsewhere to that effect. yet. unacceptable in this case as it may be. they may  of necessity turn to our system. they may turn to the communist system. let us  forget that 2 out of 3 people in free asia live in india. they face the competition of communist china on their doorstep. the whole effort of the free world to win the support of its underdeveloped areas could go down the drain unless we determine to do  what needs to be done. and what is needed is greater investment. public and private. why do we need the bank. why can private investment take care of everything. i think it is true that private investment has been successful. and efforts to promote it have had more ardent friend in congress. both in the senate and in the other body. than myself. i joined with representative vorys in developing the private investment guarantee program. i have sponsored an amendment. under which a comprehensive study of private investment is being made by undersecretary of state douglas dillon. but private investment can do all the work because it can supply what is called the infrastructurethe roads. ports. sanitation and other fundamental public works. so the international bank for reconstruction and development is essential to supply the infrastructure. its loans are more acceptable in the neutralist nations than in others.  we come to the big question: do people like or dislike the united states. are they grateful for the money which we give them under our foreign aid programs. . it is time we grew up. we naturally like it but it makes vital difference whether the people are grateful or . it even makes vital difference whether they like us or although certainly we want to be liked. i think educational. cultural and sports exchanges. tourism. and similar efforts will help us materially in that regard. as will better information programs. but that is  the fundamental point. the fundamental point is that the other nations should take the free worlds way of attaining ecoic development and national life. if they will do that. we will have won what it is essential to win in the free world. the work done by the international bank for reconstruction and development is our work. it is helping by taking some of the load of making the effort to win the cold war a success off the american taxpayers in a most effective way. i can think of single thing which will do the american taxpayers more good in terms of ecoizing in the cost of government and in terms of winning the peace. than our passing this bill. i shall  go into the question of the fiscal year to which the funds should be charged. or anything like that. that is strictly a political issue. it makes substantive difference which way it is settled. although i shall suport the republican position on that question. the vital matter is that we shall do it and that we shall k why we are doing it and that the american taxpayer shall realize it. i do  think there is anything he as an individual could do more effectively than to support what we are doing. both in terms of the struggle for peace and the effort to effect. as much as we can. ecoy in government in our foreign aid programs.
i do  wish to engage the senator any further in debate on this question. we have both given our views. as have other senators. i could  agree more with the senator about getting other countries to pitch into foreign aid activities. my own activities in the nato parliamentarians and mr. douglas dillons activities in respect to european countries are evidence of that interest. and the new organization  contemplated will result in a monumental effort toward that end. however. hing we are doing here blinds me. or the senator from delaware. or anyone else. to the need for it. although the senator from delaware differs with me on the merits of this proposal. i think he will agree with me that the sum total of what we are planning to do in ida is to get more help from the industrialized european nations which have made a remarkable recovery. even with all these efforts. i am sure it will be recognized that we shall have a narrow squeak in trying to meet the problems of the world in respect to the less developed countries.
to digress from my main argument for a minuteand i hope my friend will permit me to continue with it. because our time is limitedi do  expect that the foreign aid program will result in having all nations on earth grateful to us or having all nations on earth adopt policies agreeable to me.  shall we. by voting for a foreignaid program. deprive ourselves of the right and the opportunity to proceed in every way open to us. as beforediplomatically and propogandawisein our relationships with all of these countries. in fighting for the things we think are right. i should rather have chile free and rebellious. using that term in the same sense as the senator spoke of chile. rather than to have chile in communist hands and docile so far as communism is concerned. that is really the issue. as i see it. . we are all on the same side of trying to win the cold war and trying to win it decisively. we k that we can play the russian game in terms of subversion and infiltration and aggression and rocket rattling. this is  our business. we can operate that way. we have a great weapon.
the senator is correct. i am pleased to have that interpretation of my remarks.. i have precisely the same thing in mind. so. madam president. the importance of this action lies essentially in the element of timing. however. it is  only a matter of timing. but also a question of where the new nations of the world shall look for their leadership. whether they shall look to the united states or to the soviet union. the comment just made by the distinguished senator from vermont is pointed to that question. in other words. the russians would like hing better than to replace us in that position. i believe we still are without question the leader in terms of world leadership. madam president. the current burst of hostilities between israel and syria on the shores of the sea of galilee. the continuing tense truce in the congo. the seemingly endless negotiations with the soviet union over disarmamentwithout the mediating hand of the united nations any one of these conflicts between nationsquite apart from laos. vietnam. berlin. quemoy. and matsu and other tension points  before the u.n.-could plunge the world into a nuclear war. if the united nations served other purpose than thisto act in effect as a peaceful substitute for war in certain cases. as a free forum of nations where anger and hurt can find egh uninhibited expression to make killing unnecessarythen it is well worth the money and the effort that the united states is devoting to it. but the attacks on the united nations  only by the kremlin. but also by some of its friends here on the ground that it is imperfect. that it can always do what it sets out to do that we should give  1 place to our regional alliances in preference to the united nations in the execution of our foreign policythese arguments sidestep the essential facts regarding the united nations and our relationship with it. the united nations is our main reliance for maintaining peace in the world. madam president. these are  my assertions. they represent the considered policy of the united states as annced by president eisenhower to the general assembly in september 1960. and as annced to the general assembly by president kennedy last year. there is great difference between our reliance upon the u.n. to maintain peace in the world. and our reliance on nato and our other regional alliances as major instruments for security when peace is threatened. as well as for regional cooperation. there is conflict with respect to full and unqualified support by the united states of both of these essential instruments of our foreign policy. and i hope the president will again take the opportunity to clearly and firmly state this fact. the united nations occupies a vital place in the operation of our foreign policy. and it should command our full respect and support. in this supersonic atomic age. it is literally impossible to imagine what kind of a world this would be without a functioning united nations. for the new nations of asia. africa. and the middle east the u.n. is indispensable. it is their place of recognition as world personalities. it gives them standing and responsibility. as well as practical help in many fields. without which their development would be materially slowed and chaos and reaction might be much more likely to occur in particular cases. the best case in point being. of course. the congo. madam president. having said what i have just said. it is important to consider the views expressed by the majority leader yesterday. affirming that the onenatioevote basis for action in the u.n. general assembly.  that the security council is relatively impotent. creates "procedural distortion between the power to make decisions and the power. the will. and responsibility to carry out decisions." this is a real dilemma and if it continues could make us give consideration to weighted voting in the general assembly of the type. for example. in effect in the international bank for reconstruction and development and the international monetary fund. which are also u.n. organs. before anything like that happens by way of an amendment to the united nations charter. which would require a long time and a great deal of work. we must do something in the meantime. i should like to address myself to the question of what we are to do to the u.n.  under the circumstances and in view of the proper analysis of the situation by the majority leader. i believe that we have learned aher lesson from this dilemma. and that is to fight for our belief in the general assembly. whether we win or lose. and to be less concerned about what the majority leader calls quite properly "vote victories." if we fight for what we believe in even though it may be unpopular with the new u.n. members  constituting about half the votes in the general assembly. we will have. first. selfrespect. and. second. be more likely to call them to their responsibilities. where i do  follow the line. for example. laid out by senator jackson in his national press club speech is that it is necessary to downgrade the position of the u.n. in our policy below that which president eisenhower and president kennedy have recognized fully in order to achieve a greater impact and a greater sense of responsibility in that body. i feel we must fight our battles ardently in the u.n. but must continue to treat it as the main international body for the maintenance of world peace. i see hing in all our policy including our support for the regional organizations which we adhere which is inconsistent with sustaining the position of the nation toward the u.n. as expressed by president eisenhower and president kennedy. this is a critical hour for the united nations. and that means that it is a critical hour for all of us. the decision we are about to make here on this issue has real consequence for the free world. there is grave danger that unless we continue our support for the u.n.-as contemplated by president eisenhower and president kennedy. who in 1960 and 1961 pledged our nations full support to the u.n. in addresses to the general assemblywe will be serving ice on the new nations formed since the close of world war ii to look elsewhere for their leadership and the full enjoyment of their nationhood. it is the question of timing which so deeply disturbs me in connection with any such idea as that voiced by the distinguished senator from washington and others to downgrade the u.n. to some other level than that which it  holds in american foreign policy. if that is done. we k where the new nations will look for leadership. it will  be to the united states. such an outcome is unthinkable to our people and would be gravely inimical to the foreign policy of the united states. so. we understand. in respect to the united nations loan. that it will  be more than sufficient to carry the united nations through perhaps aher year or year and a half. we have every right to expect that in the intervening time there will be opportunity for the world court at the hague to decide that nations are liable for assessments voted in accordance with the activities of the general assembly of the united nations. such as the maintenance of peace in the congo. or on the borders between israel and the arab states. or in other places where such activities may be undertaken. the period of time when the u.n. is being adequately financed will also give us an opportunity to bring more thoroughly to the understanding of the new nations their sense of responsibility toward the u.n. if we let the u.n. go down the drain  for financial reasons. we shall have created a vacuum in the world. in my view. that will bring the danger of nuclear war infinitely nearer than it is today. one can be doctrinaire on that score. when there is in hand a piece of machinery which has so far been helpful in keeping us away from the terrible business of war since the end of world war ii. and which has been useful in other situations. which have been recounted in great detail by the distinguished senator from idaho . one does  jettison it for the sake of $100 million or $200 million. or $500 million. in addition. what is at stake is  only the u.n. and our position in the u.n. what is at stake also is the question of whether the new nations will turn to us for a position of respectability and standing or will turn to the soviet union. that is what is at issue. both in the bill  before the senate. and in the u.n.. in respect of the foreign policy of the united states. i feel very strongly that in the highest national interest it is indispensable to the united states to maintain its position of leadership. which. whatever may be its challenge. and whoever may play upon it. is etheless ours in the world. i deeply feel. in all good conscience. that it is infinitely better for the leadership to be vested in our hands for the good of mankind than to let it slip from our hands by some improvident action. which would let it pass into the hands of the other challenger who is waiting to receive itthe soviet union. i think that is what is at stake. i sincerely hope the senate will vote favorably upon the mansfielddirksen amendment. which is the pending question. madam president. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the recoad an editorial entitled "the u.n. and us." published in the new york times of april 1. 1962.
with respect to the cairo radio. and every analysis that i have read. the formidableness of the threat of the cairo radio coverage emphasizes the fact that it is a very important factor in keeping the middle east in turmoil. israel is in a state of alert because of the danger of a pronasser takeover of jordan. we are familiar with the difficulties which king hussein is facing in his own government. indeed. on april 24 egypts ambassador to the unitednations. mahmoud riad. threatened israel by saying that egypt was committed to putting the arab refugees in possession of israel. let us remember that about half a million arab refugees are concentrated on the border of israel and jordan. the implication as to where they would come from is. therefore. clear. israel is also alarmed over the disclosure that egypt with the help of german scientists and technicians--many of them reported to be unrepentant nazisis seeking to develop missile weaponsat least capable of use with nuclear as well as conventional warheadsas well as supersonic aircraft. and saudi arabia is still bristling over the nasserinspired revolt and civil war in yemen supported by a reported 28.000 egyptian troops as well as planes and armor. in that respect. again there is some news this morning which may indicate a certain degree of pacification in that area. it is a considerably "iffy" report. but nevertheless it does represent a matter of special pride to me. and to all of us. because of participation in some effort.to ameliorate the situation. it is reported in the press that ambassador ellsworth bunker. has been in yemen and that some agreement for a pullout by the united arab republic from yemen is under consideration. conditioned upon saudi arabian help to yemen. and that such an agreement has actually been negotiated. . in connection with this agreement. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a news report published in the washington post of this morning.
 nasser to escalate the arms race. to defy the foreign policy of the free world. to frustrate the united nations as he is doing in the case of yemen. and generally to lend himself to aggression and the gravest kind of danger of international war in this area of the world
 nasser in the middle east. we reap this kind of result. in short. it is widely felt that egypts interference with troops in the yemen was completely unwarranted. that egypt has failed to withdraw from the yemen. even under her agreement made with the united states for the removal of her troops under united nations auspices. it is felt that our assistance only feeds the fire of intransigence and status of war in the middle east-
and. of course. the bellicose statements of president nasser aggravate this situation. let us remember. too. that the air force of the united arab republic was maintained by technicians from the soviet union. and that there is bombardment of defenseless villages on the yemensaudi arabian border in support of egypts army in the yemen. totaling 28.000 men. secondly. this expression of complete hostility against israel bears out what i and others have testified to before the foreign relations committee. we have emphasized the absolute necessity for safeguards to prevent the misuse of our ecoic assistance by such countries as the united arab republic which devote their resources to preparations for war and which. by hostile. aggressive actions. threaten the peace and security  only of their neighbors. but of the whole world. and divert the resources of their own country for the purpose of armament preparation along these lines. i believe it is clear that. when we take up the foreign aid bill. we must consider some restraint on the conduct which i have just described. i hope very much. pursuant to the testimbny and submission of. proposals and amendmentsthose which are completely restrictive and those which simply express the sense of the congress on the subjectthe foreign relations committee will include adequate provisions to indicate the attitude and views of congress on this misuse of our foreign aid program. i hope very much that it will  be necessary to deal with the situation by amendment on the floor. but if it is. so be it--it must be done. there is one more devoted to foreign aid than i. and there is one more devoted to the effort to reform the arab world. rehabilitate it. and bring it to a modern state of prosperity. but i can sit idly by when that aid is distorted and abused for the purpose of adding to the fire of the war danger in the world in the manner in which egypt has used these resources up to . i deeply feel we must support this effort in the foreign aid bill. and that is why i trust that the foreign relations committee will give the subject its urgent attention. it is increasingly clear with every days events as reported from the middle east that we are  making any progress with the united arab republic toward the objectives of the massive aid program we are conducting in egypt. instead of freedom and peace through ecoic development and political stability. we are confronted by the destruction of private enterprise. by virulent threats and aggressive actions which create fear and disrupt stability. and by an arms race which effectively cancels out the salutary effects of u.s. ecoic assistance. the situation calls for a sharp change in our policy toward the united arab republic along the lines of the amendment i introduced to the foreign assistance act which will bar our aid to any nation that in effect uses it to endanger world peace. the united arab republics current actions demonstrate that it is pursuing policies which are in direct contravention to the objectives of our foreign aid program. our assistance is making it possible for these aggressive and disruptive policies to be put into effect. and i believe we can longer allow ourselves to be in that position. i deeply believe that we must condition our aid to the united arab republic on a cessation of present hostilities and the. arms race. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record with my remarks the reports in the new york times of august 12 and 13 concerning the united arab republic.
madam president. i shall take only a few moments. i ask the distinguished senator from idaho to bear with me. i have read his statement with great interest. i did . unfortunately. because of committee meetings. find it possible to be present with other members of the senate during his delivery of the speech. i would like to put his speech in focus with respect to the resolution that i am about to introduce. i consider the resolution a complementand i use the word advisedlyto what the senator from idaho has laid before us. the dialog must go on. but .a debate without an instrument of authority before us for action is a very different kind of dialog from that which occurs when there are committee hearings. committee consideration. debate. and a vote. that is what i am trying to bring about. when congress passed house joint resolution 1145 of august 10. 1964. it gave the president originally a big mandate. as commander in chief. he did  need it. but in our government it was wise to get the advice and consent of congress for such an important action. that resolution gave the president a blank check to use our armed forces. but it gave him a blank check only in the frame of reference at that time: that we were in south vietnam as advisers. that we would strike back if we were attacked. as in the gulf of tonkin. that we would protect our bases. and that we would use the kind of discretion which was necessary under the prevailing conditions.  less than a year later we see the likelihood of a land war on a longterm basis. of course. the answer of the senator from idaho and the senator from pennsylvania is right. we understand we are waiting for a break in time and are trying to push all the levers we can in order to get that break. but that does  mean we should  stay there. we are mired there. if that is what we want to call it. i try. in this resolution to do three things. one. to have congress join the president in laying down our objectives in south vietnamthat we have designs in th vietnam. for example. and are willing to go back to the 1954 geneva agreement. which has been referred to by the senator from arkansas . by other senators. and by the majority leader. who is one of the most kledgeable senators in foreign affairs. the second point is to have congress join with what the president said at johns hopkinsthat we are ready to negotiate. even. as some have said. if it means having some representatives of the vietcong in th vietnam costumes in a delegation. the third point is to declare our readiness to use every medium the united nations offers in trying to arrive at a solution. it must be remembered that when the president was urged to say that he was willing to negotiate. he said he had said it 43 times. but when he said it the 44th time. at johns hopkins. the world heard it and said. " the united states is willing to conduct absolutely untrammeled discussions." so it is in this case. the president says he has a mandate. it is reported that he carries it around in his pocket and will show it to demonstrate that he is acting in team with the congress. but the words of that mandate longer mean what was intended in the light of the situation at that time. a new joint resolution would lend the solidarity of the president. the congress. and the people to our effort. i have read what the senator has said. just as he has read what i have said. i would be much comforted by his comments on this matter. i am trying to add a proper complement to the dialog which has taken place by a distinguished group in this chamber.
. one of the big difficulties in this matter is the fact that adequate contributions are  being received from other parts of the world. some of the other countries could do more. the development assistance committee of the oecd. of which we are a member. the 10 major giver nations of the world. is a kind of a governmental consortium for the purpose of dealing with foreign aid. our hands would be emously strengthened in the activity and negotiations which take place in order to get greater contributions from other countries if we could have a greater sense of certainty than we have today as to the yearbyyear operation of the foreigni aid program. it is extremely difficult to make the necessary plea to other nations to increase their contributions. when our own authorization. let alone the appropriation. is at the hazard of the annual process which is undertaken at this time. i am sure senator mcgee has already testified to the volume of work of the committee. both here and in the house of representatives. which interferes with really giving the amount of legislative oversight that should be given. but the main point. within my own experiencemost members k that i am very active in the affairs of the nato parliamentarians conference and the oecd and these operations in europeis that  having this authorization for more than 1 year materially hampers us in getting the urgently needed additional contributions from other countries. as we want the contributions and as the safeguards are complete about appropriations being required annually. et cetera. congress is running extra risks in this matter. as we desire aid from others. i can testify to the senate.  only as a senator but also as a witness. that one of the major ways in which to get it is to have authorizations that can be bargained against with other countries for more than 1 year. two years is  necessarily the optimum. but it is better than 1 year. and it gives this country a better chance to get other countries to help in other areas. and the situation urgently demands it. in our own selfinterest. i ask senators to approve the amendment.
 nasser is said to have contributed to the outcome. writing in the october 18. 1963. new york times on the occasion of the beginning of the second year of egyptian military intervention in yemen. times correspondent dana adams schmidt commented: everyone concerned is keenly aware that the united arab republic could  carry on the war [in yemen] without united states food aid and financial support. furthermore. united states recognition of the republican regime. even though it was shaky. and still fighting for control of its territory. amounted to a political act of support. in the spring of 1963. when the egyptians were concerned with military opposition from saudi forces in yemen. the united arab republic indicated both its willingness and the willingness of the republic of yemen for the united nations to supervise an agreement barring outside interference in yemens civil war. this call for united nations intermediation in the yemen should  be taken up by our own government - to bring peace to an area torn by war for 4 years and to restore freedom to a people oppressed by as cynical a foreign imperialist as ever conceived by cairos own propagandistscairo itself. we should  sit idly by as freedoms lighteven though it may  be but a faint flicker of that flameis extinguished in still aher country. as todays new york times editorial points out: it is indicative of the double standard that prevails in todays cynical world that so few voices are to be heard demanding selfdetermination for the people of yemen and the exit of the foreign troops who are  such unwelcome guests there. i ask unanimous consent that this editorial be printed in the record.
 is free to pursue the war and forget the peace. this attitude must be resisted. while the administrations u.n. proposals in themselves may  have brought us closer to peace in vietnam. they may have shown us aher way of seeking it. the positive reaction outside of the communist bloc to the speech may cxii- 1533part 18 have shown that th3 way to ha and the nlf is  through moscow or peking. but through world opinion. if the message got through that we are genuinely pursuing a way out. our diplomacy was a success. if the message was properly understood. world opinion should  recognize that it has a role to play. sensible americans recognize that we can seek "unconditional surrender." and leaders and people around the world must recognize that we will  accept an iginious peace. the burden of reconciliation  rests on those who have stood on the sidelines as well as on ourselves. it is to these problems and issues to which i would like to address myself in this fourth and final speech in a series on vietnam.
. it is my purpose this morning to make some observations on the attitude which france has adopted at the international monetary fund meeting which is going on in washington. and also with respect to secretary fowlers reported reply to that attitude. the incredibly shortsighted attitude expressed by france at this weeks session of the imf makes us question whether france has declared financial war on the rest of the world in the name of chauvinism and grandeur. secretary fowlers "reply" yesterday shows that the united states may be finally ready to take a strong stand in the face of frances intransigence. regrettably. secretary fowler has overreacted and appeared to raise the possibility that the united states itself may declare financial war on the world. i am disturbed that finally. after the united states musters egh courage to take the offensive in international monetary negotiations. we propose to take the offensive via threatening more restrictions rather than proposing to proceed with building a new system without france. it would be a great mistake for the united states to push the world toward more restrictions in trade and finance and thereby contribute to the complete destruction of the system we helped create. if france is determined to try to bring the world to the brink of ecoic collapse in order to assert french influence then the united states and the other nations may well have to unite and use their collective strength to oppose this challenge. and to proceed without france in creating a more adequate international monetary system. the secretarys statement. however. would seem to indicate that. like france. we are considering the possibility of fighting back by returning to a policy of financial isolationisma policy that has been amply discredited by the past. such a policy on the part of the united states would be entirely wrong. contrary to what we have stood for since the end of world war ii and. therefore. is  a credible threat. especially as we have an affirmative and constructive way to fight back. this is one world ecoically. if  politically. the leaders of the great corporations of industrialized nations which operate in many different nations understand this. unfortunately. the political leaders of france apparently do . but time is running out. it is essential to build a more stable and integrated free world ecoic order. those who do  wish to move forward may exercise their sovereign right to stay behind. neither enjoying the benefits  assuming the burdens of closer ecoic cooperation. but we should grant nation. however great. the right to veto necessary progress. proceedings at the imf meeting show that the french viewpoint is  shared by the other industrialized nations. the other industrialized nations including canada. japan. britain and the united states expressed a readiness to conclude negotiations on a "contingency plan" for new international currency reserves before the end of next year. the united states must necessarily take the lead in urging that these negotiations be brought to a successful close. the united states possesses unmatched ecoic strength and the time has come to use that strength without any selfconsciousness. the united states dollar. as a source of international credit. financing world trade and investment. and as a world reserve currency. forms the underpinning of the international monetary system. it remains the most important source of new international liquidity. on its strength rests the health of the world ecoy. it remains the key to the hopes of developing countries. the history of the postworld war ii period is evidence that the united states has used its great ecoic power to the advantage of the free world and  simply to strengthen itself at the expense of the rest of the world. the marshall plan. the world bank. the imf and our foreign aid programs all attest to this. we are again in a situation where a major ecoic problem facing the communist worldinadequate international reserve creationis  receiving adequate attention. technical progress has been slow but in my opinion satisfactory in the past 2 years. the problem is that the group of ten has been mesmerized by a small miity led by france which demands immediate balance of payments equilibrium by the united states and the united kingdom and a return to the gold standard. but the u.s. balanceofpayments deficit does  represent fundamental disequilibrium but it is a reflection of the u.s.. role as world banker and as a country with global responsibilities. as to the question of what role gold should play in any new monetary arrangement. it is generally agreed that it is in inadequate supply and it can only play a subsidiary role in providing new liquidity. in my own opinion. the sooner the role of gold is minimized the closer we will get to a realistic and well managed international monetary system. should we fail to create major improvements in the system in the near future i would favor the united states taking steps to deprive gold of its present unlimited convertibility into dollars. if necessary. the united states should withdraw its international assurance to buy gold at $35 per ounce and annce that while we may continue for the present to sell gold at $35 per ounce. we will  buy gold at any set price. and perhaps  at all. such a move would reduce the value of gold hoards of private and government speculators who are betting that the u.s. dollar will be devalued. the international monetary system remains highly vulnerable to shocks which could shake the ecoic foundations of the free world and require early and effective attention. i wish to call attention to three in particular: first. the british pound is in serious trouble. while we can wish for the best. we must prepare for the worst. there is assurance that recently annced measures to strengthen the pound will work. if these measures fail. then the pound may have to be devalued. the monetary system could take devaluation in stride if it did  set off a wave of devaluations by other countries and if it did  trigger a flight from the dollar into gold. while such a reaction is possible. it would be utterly irrational and selfdefeating. it is vital for the administration to begin  to make clear that devaluation of the pound would  have any adverse effect on the basic strength of the american ecoy and on the dollar.
the senator is correct. and he is doing so. in my judgment. to the best of his ability. i never criticize any president or cabinet officer for doing his best. in the famous tfx investigation. although i disagreed with the administration. i was its best defender. i do  want to be in a position of criticizing secretary fowler. for whom i have a wholesome affection. we must take this matter out of the private room in which it is being considered. we must expose it to the light of day. this is a matter of urgency. it is like the old story of the war being too important to entrust to generals. that is why i urge an international monetary conference.
to repeat. three points must be made clear. first. the repeated warnings that war was imminent are warnings longer. war is here. united states policy must be crystallized and implemented in light of the existing situation. second. the aggressor is the united arab republic. under president nasser. i have already described the aggression. to supplement the description of the aggression. i will. in a moment or two. specifically quote some of the declarations on this subject * * *  only by our government. but by the government of egypt itself. third. it is the duty of the united states and of other major powers. as loyal members of the united nations. to seek through the security council.  in emergency session. every immediate means to achieve a ceasefire. but this time. let us be mindful of the broken pledges of 1956 and 1957 regarding access to the suez canal and the gulf of aqaba. let us be mindful also of the policy of the union of soviet socialist republics to foment a new arms race in the near east. withstanding its earlier direct participation in assurances leading to the pullback of the forces of israel. the united kingdom. and france. in 1956 and 1957. if we hold fast to those ideas. the path of the united states will become clear. i do  think it is necessary for the united states to spell out in detail precisely what it is going to do. except to repeat. as the president has repeated. the pledge and the responsibility of the united states. and the vindication of our nations ho. i. do  think any blank checks are needed here from congress. this is one conflict in which the people are defending themselves. and k how to defend themselves with such valor as to compel the respect. perhaps even the admiration. of the people of the united states. under these circumstances it seems to me our government must proceed with dignity and propriety. i have little doubtand i speak only as one senatorthat when the right time comes for something to be done. it will be done. and it will be done with the support of the great majority of the members of the congress of the united states. let us make mistake about it. this is  just aher brushfire war in the desert. the major powers have made pledges. based on their national interest. and their pledges have involved them deeply. let us  forget the declarations made 10 years ago. when we faced a similar situation. if carried out at that time. these pledges would have prevented the present situation. i would like to refer to them specifically. on february 20. 1957. president eisenhower. .the %most important single individual responsible for the withdrawal of the three powers at that time. said. with respect to the armistice agreement which included both the suez canal and the gulf of aqaba: if. unhappily. egypt does violate the armistice agreement or other international obli.gations. then this should be dealt with firmly by the society of nations. : the "society of nations." . means every single nation. including this nation. this statement was made by secretary of state dulles to ambassador eban on with respect to the gulf of aqaba. and access theretothe united states believes that the gulf comprehends international waters and that nation has the right to prevent free and inent passage in the gulf and through the straits giving access thereto. then in a news conference on march 26. 1957. secretary dulles said: you may recall that the report of the secretarygeneral said that he did  think that belligerent rights should be exercised in relation to the sharm elsheikh area and the straits of tiran. because he also shared the view that the preponderance of legal au.thority was that there was right to exercise belligerent rights and to stop inent passage through there. on the first of march 1957. in the united nations. ambassador henry cabot lodge. speaking for the united states. said: once israel has completed its withdrawal in accordance with the resolutions of the general assembly. and in view of the measures taken by the united nations to deal with the situation. there is basis for either party to the armistice agreement to assert or exercise any belligerent rights. these statements must be read in the light of the statement of the government of egypt on february 27. 1957. regarding the suez canal. in which it was stated: the government of egypt are more particularly determined: (a) to afford and maintain free and uninterrupted navigation for all nations within the limits of and in accordance with the provisions of the constantile convention of 1888.
. let us grow up. we are spending $2 billion a month for the war in vietnam. we are spending $5 billion a year or more for space. we are spending a similar amount for public works. we have already guaranteedi got the figures only yesterday--over $80 billion for mortgages for buildings in the united states. we have the demonstration cities and other programs which congress so far has refused to go along with. there is much work for all of us to do before we come to the point of saying that. because we are extending the time limit for extended risk guarantees by 1 year. we are going to vitiate help for the slums of the united states. i can hardly see how an argument can be made to support that contention. considering the number of things we have to do before we get to that point. for that matter. if that is the way we feel. why  deny the whole foreign aid program. forget the entire $3.1 billion involved. let us devote it to the slums. i k the senator from oregon would like that-
 of franceas they are the two principal continental european countries concernedis hinged upon the meeting of the group of ten. matter how tough secretary connally says it is. he says this has to be settled. and we are in the process of trying to negotiate a settlement. yet. the argument is that we are asking others for a proposition rather than making a proposition of our own. if the only proposition that we can put forward is a longterm army. navy. and air force in ecoic terms. and that is what this particular title would do. that is a poor way to enter into negotiations and get results. and  we see title vi. overkill if there ever was any. this idea that we are going to put our muscle on the world and the world will respond because we will show them how tough we are. has  worked in the united nations with respect to the disastrous defeat of american policy with the exclusion of the republic of china on taiwan. and it will  be done ecoically. it has also  worked in vietnam. the world is  organized that way. human nature will  respond to that kind of bludgeon. i repeat. this is the wrong signal. at the wrong time. and without any real necessity for it. therefore. title vi should be stricken while we have the opportunity to do so. a few facts and figures are very important. there is a growing concern in the world that the united states is likely to go protectionist and isolationist. then the world will protect itself the best way it can. title vi justifies and reinforces this concern. i ask unanimous consent that a statement i made before a press conference this morning be placed in the record at this point.
