. i shall support the amendment of the senator from hawaii. i heard with the greatest interest and the greatest enlightenment his speech. and also the speech of my colleague from hawaii with respect to the whole situation. my main support of the amendment of the senator from hawaii [mr. iye i is based upon the impact of this situation on the consumers. this would be my main feeling. in addition. the question of the foreign policy of the united states also is involved. the port of new york is the largest center of cane sugar refining in the world. raw cane sugar ranks second in tonnage among the commodities imported through the portby far the most important food product. in 1962. more than 1.500.000 tons of sugar moved into new york. requiring some 150 ships. . this sugar was destined for five of the nations largest refineriesthe brooklyn plant of the american sugar co.-domisugars. the long island city plant of the national sugar refining co.-jack frost sugars. the brooklyn plant of sucrest corp.-sucrest sugar. the yonkers plant of refined syrups & sugars. inc.-flosweet sugars. and the liquid sugar plant of the pepsicola co. in long island city. the raw sugar imported into the port of new york was valued at more than $190 million. according to the latest studies. the 11/2 million tons of sugar imported generated an estimated $80 million more in business for the new york area. new yorks sugar refining industry has played an important role in the progress of the business community of the city for more than 300 years. the five refineries. alone. provide direct employment for nearly 5.000 individuals and maintain an annual payroll of approximately $25 million. in addition. there are hundreds of home office employees of sugar companies whose jobs depend on the importation of sugar. aher segment of new york labor also benefits from imports of raw cane sugar. for example. each year over 3 billon pounds of sugar products move out of these refineries by barge. truck. and providing many manhours of employment to transportation workers alone. housewives buying small packages of sugar. the industrial usersbakers. confectioners. canners. bottlers. ice cream manufacturers. and other food processorslocated in new york. new jersey. and the other surrounding states rely heavily on new york sugar refineries to fill quickly their divergent sugar needs at reasonable prices. new york and new jersey. with a total sugar consumption of more than 2.6 billion pounds annually. is the nations most important sugar consuming market. what would be the direct impact on business and labor concerned with the importation of sugar into the port of new york if 500.000 tons of sugar quota were taken away from the foreign suppliers. first of all. there would be a loss of incoming cargo. second. there would be a loss of outgoing cargo due to a reduction of exports. here is why: the sugarproducing nations depend on the sale of raw sugar to the united states to help earn the dollars needed to import manufactured and agricultural goods from the united states. these goods. $4.2 billion worth in 1962. must flow out through u.s. ports. any drop in u.s. imports of raw sugar will. most assuredly. be followed by a decrease in u.s. exports to sugarproducing nations. sugar is the third most important dollar earner for all of latin america. new york and new jersey. in 1961. exported an estimated $455 million worth of manufactured and farm goods to the sugarproducing nations. most of it through the port of new york. these exports of everything from highly intricate electronic equipment to clothes and malt provided an estimated 50.000 jobs and $275 million in wages and farm income. there would definitely be a reduction of jobs at the five new york cane refineries. it is true that sugar taken away from the foreign suppliers and given mainly to the beet producers would provide additional employment for the beet industry. but this would be a poor exchange for organized labor. and especially for. east coast cane refinery workers who would lose their jobs to the beet industry mainly in western states. the proposed 500.000ton reduction in the foreign sugar quota represents 16 days or 1.720.000 manhours of work for the entire cane refining industry and a loss of more than $6.200.000 in refinery workers wages alone. the harmful consequences of lopping 500.000 tons of sugar from the foreign quota can be graphically measured in stark terms if the full impact were to be concentrated on the port of new york. such a cutback in importation would be egh to eliminate approximately onehalf of the business and jobstimulating activities of the fleets carrying sugar to the port. and to wipe out two or three of new yorks cane sugar refineries. some 2.500 refinery jobs. and the $12.500.000 in annual payroll. of course. new york would  by itself suffer the full impact of a reduction in foreign sugar quotas. etheless. it is fair and factual to state that new yorks share of the sugar import loss would result in a serious reduction of jobs in the five new york refineries. u.s. cane refinery workers are among the highest paid and receive some of the highest benefits in american industry. they are also assured of yearround employment. in contrast. the beet processing factory jobs are seasonal. at lower pay. with lesser benefits. for example. cane refinery production workers average around $3 an hour and fringe benefits are in the neighborhood of 75 cents an hour. the new york plants provide steady employment throughout the year. according to the latest government studies. beet production workers receive an average of $2.20 an hour on a seasonsal basis. primarily during a 4month periodoctober through january. u.s. production workers as a whole are paid an average of $2.49 an hour. the bureau of labor statistics reports. the replacement of cane sugar by beet sugar also will result in higher prices to the unionist as well as to all consumers. besides being one of the most highly subsidized farm commodities. beet sugar must be shipped into the highly populous east coast by truck and train from the western beet states. this combinationhigh subsidies and freight costsresults. in times of mal supply. in a higher cost of sugar to the housewife and the industrial user. as to the foreign policy aspect. we are always inclined. as we were when we discussed this subject yesterday. with respect to aher tariff matter. to look at these things through the wrong end of the telescope. we are fighting a battle with europe with respect to the rationalization of europes farm production. we say to europe. "do  produce wheat and other farm products unecoically. buy them from us ecoically." this stimulates trade both ways. because the european cost of production is infinitely greater than ours. yet we are  asked to turn completely around and engage in the very same protectionist device we are asking europe to avoid. by asking our people to produce more sugar. which we k is more expensive to produce than it is in the places from which we import it. the more we encourage american production on an expensive ecoic level. the more we are encouraging the building up of agricultural subsidies and price guarantees. against which so many of us have been inveighing for years. and which. in my judgment. have dragged down american agriculture to a position of almost constant depression. in my judgment. from the point of view of the most rational approach to the totality of the united states. the amendment of the senator from hawaii should be adopted. the very most we should do is to extend the situation as it exists today for an additional 6 months.
