under current ssi law. the secretary of the department of health. education. and welfare is  authorized to make emergency payments to other than initial claimants. thus. if a person on the ssi rolls. through absolutely fault of his own. fails to receive his monthly ssi check. he must wait for the treasury department to reissue the check. although the treasury department has been extremely cooperative in reissuing checks. there are instances in which persons need immediate emergency assistance and the treasury department is unable to reissue the check as promptly as necessary. my bill would allow emergency payments to be made within 24 hours of application to ssi recipients whose checks were lost. stolen. or undelivered. in addition. my bill would allow emergency assistance to be provided to replace lost or stolen cash which is determined by the secretary to have constituted the proceeds of one or more ssi checks. if legislation such as this is  enacted. ssi recipients will be forced to continue to bear the burden of postal service delays. computer errors. and thefts. while they wait. they frequently must go without proper food and may even be faced with the threat of eviction. i feel that it is important for the government to bear the burden of these delays. rather than to force it on that segment of the population least able to deal with such situations. aher significant problem with the ssi program as it is currently operating relates to the extremely long processing times involved. persons who apply for ssi benefits are generally in dire need of assistance. yet it is  unusual for the processing of their claims to take several months. indeed. it has been reported that as many as onehalf of aged applicants and threefourths of disabled applicants wait more than 2 months for their claims to be adjudicated. i have personally received correspondence from numerous persons who have waited 6 months and have still  received a determination. i can accept a program which allows aged. blind. and disaled persons to suffer because of bureaucratic delays. my bill would require that an ssi application be acted upon within 45 days after it is filed. or 60 days after filing in the case of disability claims. and in such cases. a decision on presumptive disability must be made within 20 days. my bill would further permit a cash advance of $100 per month to be made to presumptively eligible applicants while their claims are being processed. i still believe that the supplemental security income program can offer dignity and comfort to millions of aged. blind. and disabled americans. but if improvements in the program are  made. i fear that ssi may be just aher empty promise. i urge enactment of this legislation as one step toward fulfilling the promise of ssi. by mr. hollings:
