. i rise in support of the conference report. which i think is a very substantial victory in the public interest for all those who care about the conservation of our giant redwoods. i certainly wish to compliment the chairman. the gentleman from colorado . and the ranking republican member. the gentleman from pennsylvania . as well as the gentleman from california . who has worked diligently to secure the largest possible park. and the gentleman from new york . for their work on this conference report. while i cosponsored a bill calling for a 90.000acre park and while i wish the park were larger. etheless this conference report is a vast improvement over the original house bill. the lands included in the park contain trees mostly of prime quality and are  the cutover areas which some timber companies had attempted to foist off on the public. it is tragic that it has taken the congress so long to agree on a park which will preserve our most magnificent redwood stands for our children and our childrens children. although the bill before us today is  perfect. it is a most satisfactory compromise that will protect the most valuable of the trees as a truly national resource.
i had a brief colloquy on this point with the senator from oregon. of course my colleague ks that i was formerly attorney general of our state. at a time when our state was taking action in regard to the juveniledelinquency problem. by way of supporting the point my colleague from new york has made during the last few minutesand let me say that i thoroughly agree with what he has said about this matterlet me state that the colloquy to which i have referred brought out the point that the proposed program is  geared to adequate handling of the juveniledelinquency problem. neither is it geared to the functioning of the courts and the other socialadjustment media in connection with that problem. the report on the bill includes the following statement: the youth conservation corps is  designed as a cure for juvenile delinquency by which hardpressed communities can dispose of their juvenile problems by exiling them to distant forest regions. nevertheless. the ycc. because it seeks to provide a solution to a cause of juvenile delinquency. can properly be termed a preventive measure. however. . i point out to my colleague that the proponents of the bill have  really designed it for that purpose.
