. i believe it is unfair continually to ask the city of new york to make such sacrifices in its own financially hard pressed operations to insure the tranquillity of united nations meetings and the security of their participants. as this responsibility primarily rests with the federal government we are faced with a grossly unjust situation where a small percentage of the nation. the people of new york city. bear the entire financial burden of a portion of the nations foreign policy activities. moreover. new york city probably suffers financial loss as a result of being the host city for the united nations. statistics reveal that the average estimated revenues from united nations visitors is $500.000 per year. if we add to this estimated revenue from united nations employees and delegates the total financial benefit to new york city from the united nations is still small. on the other hand. the loss to new york city in real estate taxes amounts to $3.400.000 per year for the assessed value of the united nations property. and of the homes and offices of the diplomats.2 the legislation i have introduced today would relieve the unjust burden placed on the new york city taxpayer by assuring that the federal government assumes its responsibility under section 25 of the aforementioned agreement. one bill provides for an ex gratia payment of $3 million to new york city for the expenses involved in maintaining security for the sessions of the united nations. i use the figure of $3 million based on the experience of the 1960 khrushchev and castro visits. my other bill provides for reimbursement to new york city for onehalf the annual expenses incurred in providing police protection for united nations activities. the relief that these bills will provide for the city of new york is long overdue. with the important events involved in premier kosygins visit to the united 2 see report of director of the budget of the city of new york as contained in hearings of the subcommittee on international organizations and movements of the committee on foreign affairs. house of representatives. may 17. 1961. p. 25. 2see statement by director of the budget of the city of new york as contained in heartags of the subcommittee on international organizations and movements of the committee on foreign affairs. house of representatives. may 17. 1961. p. 8. nations it is patently unfair that new york city. as the host city to the united nations. should be forced to shoulder the entire burden of security cost. these extraordinary costs should be borne by the nation as a whole. when mayor lindsay was the representative from the 17th district of new york. he introduced h.r. 5209 in the 87th congress and h.r. 1928 in the 88th congress. to reimburse new york city for the expenses of the khrushchev and castro visits. it is only fair and just that we afford mayor lindsay and the city of new york the same benefit which the mayor sought to provide the then city administration. which. unfortunately. was never enacted into law. i urge my colleagues to give their careful consideration to the two measures i have introduced today. the time has come to provide the financial aid necessary to eliminate the injustice inherent in requiring one segment of the taxpaying public. the people of new york city. to assume the entire nations responsibility.
. the arrival of premier mossadegh focuses attention upon the grave problems in the strategic near east. american policy in this area is more vital even than british .policy and must be independent and  tied to british policy. iran is dangerously weakened by the loss of oil revenue and the free world suffers from the loss of the oil. yet. the iranian peoples renascent nationalism and desire for higher standards of living deserves our sympathy even though the way they seek to advance them may be misguided. angry words or sanctions will  produce a solution. friendship and help will. the united states ecoic help to iran has been meager amounting primarily to a $25.000.000 exportimport bank loan  yet fully implemented plus point 4 aid of $1.500.000. iran receives more generous consideration in the new mutual security bill. congressional action on which is just being completed. i urge that the united states offer an advance for the direct benefit of the iranian people on this ecoic aid right . this can be done without compromising the adversary positions on iranian oil  before the united nations security council. in the present situation such a gesture of friendship will do more to facilitate a settlement of mutual respect about the oil than recrimination and angry words. iran must be kept among the free peoples and her people should  be goaded into becoming a soft touch for the communists. the wellbeing of irans people comes first.
