 of the national capitol historical society. fred helped to found the historical society in 1962 and ever since he has been its driving force in efforts to bring a greater appreciation of the capitol and its history by the american people. the attractive and highly informative booklet. "we the people." has been a singular contribution of the society. its success is evidenced by the fact that over 2 million copies have been sold and it has  been translated into five foreign languages. people throughout this country. and indeed around the world. have a better understanding and deeper kledge of the capitol and the tremendous history that surrounds it. because of the tireless efforts of fred schwengel. for that alone. we can all be very grateful. but freds efforts are  confined to helping to preserve the history of our national capitol. first elected to the house in 1954. after five terms in the iowa legislature. fred quickly became kn as the kind of man who devotes his time and energy to service. both on behalf of his country and his constituents. as a conscientious and effective member of the public works committee. on which he has served since his election to the house. fred schwengel has demonstrated his deep concern in such problems as flood control. roads. and watershed development. as ranking miity member of the ad hoc subcommittee on appalachia. he has had a significant impact on legislation designed to help that impoverished area of our nation. i k that the people of freds district. as well as across the country. are indeed grateful for his efforts in the area of flood control and water pollution. certainly there are more pressing problems which demand our immediate attention. coming from a district which borders the mississippi river. fred schwengel is uniquely aware of the problem of flood control and has diligently worked to obtain funds for the construction of the levees and flood control projects which protect the cities and farmland in the rivers flood plain. fred is a leader in the present effort to restore the full funding for the clean water act. realizing as he does the tremendous importance of providing suffificient funds to combat water pollution. coming as he does from an agricultural area. fred has been active in searching for better ways to insure farm prosperity. he has worked for amendments to the food and grain act which would aid grain farmers. as a strong advocate of soil and water conservation programs. he has introduced legislation to accelerate the development of watershed programs. so important in conservation and research efforts. fred schwengel has  limited his concern only to problems that affect his constituents directly. as a responsible legislator he has been increasingly concerned about the vietnam war and in 1967 he went to south vietnam. on his own resources. to see for himself what the situation was. he came back greatly concerned that previous pacification programs were  being successful in implementing the tremendous potential for agricultural development that is present in south vietnam. there are certainly many other contributions which i could enumerate. the fact that so many of his colleagues have taken time to pay tribute to freds work is evidence of the fact that we hold him in very high esteem indeed. we are all grateful to fred for having given so much of himself. his time and his resources over the years and i k we are all looking forward to sharing with and benefiting from his work in the years to come.
