i do  have as much confidence as i ought to have considering the fact that i have had a good deal to do with this part of the program. i believe that under the existing situation and without getting into a political discussion we ought to do all we can with this administration we have. i am certainly hopeful we can get a better and more effective administration. i would like to say to the gentleman it is only if people like him and me and others in the house who are similarly interested will constantly be back of this effort to utilize private enterprise effectively in the technical and ecoic phases of the program. armed with the determination of congress as contained in the bill and as i hope it will mature finally. that we will get any action at all. let alone adequate action.  to recur to my main thesis: there are a number of contradictions which the opponents of this particular measure and of the whole mutual security program engage in which i think we should understand clearly because they bear upon the fundamental purpose of the bill. first. let us understand that we are talking in the european program. which is the main program. about fortifying for selfhelp in connection with security 205.000.000 people who enjoy a gross annual national product. that is. a total production of goods and services. of $153.000.000.000and that we are 153.000.000 people and our gross national product is $348.000.000.000. more than twice as much. that is the fundamental fact of our time. we have to carry a much greater share of the burden of defense than is prorated or based upon population. because the fundamental and unalterable fact is that we have 50 percent of the industrial production of the world and these figures show it. what do we expect. then. do we expect that people who are already poor shall further beggar themselves for our security and their own. or do we expect they will look to us. with much fewer people than they have. and over twice their gross national product. to help them in a material way. unless we accept that fundamental proposition. this bill does  make any sense. but if we do accept it. then the bill falls into place and makes excellent sense. i submit that it is an unalterable fact that we must accept and can overlook. . as to some of the other contradictions: some of those who talk here about indiscriminate cutting say. "let us cut it aher 20 percent or more." i ask those gentlemen to make up their minds whether they are just dealing with dollars. or whether they are dealing with security. is  the real question. what are we going to get in divisions. what are we going to get in armament. what are we going to get in willing help. when we are talking about 10 percent of our own total defense outlay. is  that the real question. rather than can we save dollars. certainly we can save dollars. you can eliminate this program entirely. if we eliminate egh dollars. it is like the scotchman and his horse. who saved a lot on feeding the horsethat is until the horse got so thin that he died. second. some claim the korean action and the casualties we have taken in korea are unnecessary. they want us to retreat to fortress america. i ask the question of them. do they want us to retreat to fortress america and take all the casualties ourselves. or do they want us to share with the rest of the world some of the responsibility of security and. therefore. some of the responsibility and some of the dangers of taking casualties. some say that aid which we have given. and one of my colleagues just said that a minute ago. has  gotten down to the rockbottom base of the people in the various areas which we have aided. and yet those are the same people who are against ecoic aid. we are certainly  going to get it down to the rock bottom base of the people unless we are willing to give some aid so that it can get down there. then. some say that we should give our friends abroad the khow. but we should  give them goods. that we should just give them khow and  materials. yet. these are the very same people who are in the main against technical assistance. and say that this is just boondoggling and wasting our. hardwon kledge all around the world. it is my deep conviction that all of this represents frustration as to what our american foreign policy ought to be. we k one thing. american foreign policy has to be affirmative. it can be negative. i think. therefore. if all who want affirmative action will consider the bill in those terms. then a good bill and an adequate bill in terms of money will be passed. we all k we do  want to start a preventive war against the soviet union. that would be the treacherously easy way. if we started a preventive war. then military defense would really be an offense. and we would be going to the seats of power of communism and destroying them. if we do  want that. and the american people plus our own judgment have settled that issue. then the total amount that we are spending for miiltary security is purely defensive. we k that we can never lick communism solely by defensive effort. therefore. we have to have an offensive effort. the only offensive we have is the offensive in the ecoic and technical field and in the ideological field. if at one and the same time we say we do  want a preventive war. and we want to defeat communism. then there may be ample room for differing as to the details. but we must accept the fundamental concept of this bill. the administration policy of containment is obsolescent. it must  be succeeded by a policy of counterattack. this counterattack must be diplomatic as through the u. n. that is why all efforts toward disarmament. control of atomic weapons. and the elimination of the effect of the veto in the u. n. on halting aggression are so important. it must include the use of ecoic and technical assistance such as is provided for here in this bill. it must include the speeding up of our information and education program. whether it be through the voice of america or through books or through publications. we need to do a very much more effective job. the important thing is that we need to do the job. even in the military respect. we have to emphasize the idea of counterattack. the best thing i think that mr. acheson ever did was when he said the other day that we are  just going to repeal aggression at the point where it occurrs. as we did in korea. but that the soviet must understand that from  on. if we are going to have to meet aggression here and agression there and everywhere. they are going to drive us to stopping aggression by action at the seat of the soviet power.
