. this morning a number of my colleagues and i will be discussing the domestic content bill and its harmful implications. i will begin by making the arguments: first. that the industry has used the "breathing space" provided by more than 3 years of quotas to recover with great strength from a period of trial. and second. that the domestic content legislation would hurt american jobs. consumers. and in other ways damage our ecoy and weaken our position among our trading partners. first. auto company sales. profits. salaries. and employment have all increased. the industry had its most profitable year in history in 1983 and will have a much better one in 1984. sales of domestic autos increased from 5.76 million units in 1982. the trough of the recession. to 0.8 million in 1983. based on first quarter performance. cho estimates sales will be 8.3 million in 1984. with the increase in domestic production. and partly reflecting the effect of the quotas. the import share of the domestic market is expected to drop from 27.9 percent in 1982 to a projected 22 percent in 1984. quotas have been one element of the drop in sales of imports. aher important contributor has been the fact that as fuel prices have stabilized. sales of intermediate and large cars increased from 2.9 million units in 1982 to 3.8 million units in 1983. illustrating that the largecar buyer has returned to the market. industry profitability is up dramatically. according to commerce department data. industry profits in the first quarter should be about $2.7 billion. for 1984 as a whole. the industry should earn $9 to $10 billion. chrysler earned more in the first quarter this year than in any full year in its history. in 1983. gms and fords earnings were each greater than in the last prerecession year. 1978. while this is inal income.  adjusted for inflation. it is etheless importaht because it was achieved with sales of almost i million fewer cars than in this booming profit picture has resulted in some extraordinarily selfindulgent behavior in the form of executive compensation. each of general motors top five executives broke the milliondollar compensation barrier with their salaries and bonuses last year. chairman roger smiths compensation package totaled $1.51 million: $625.000 in salary. $433.000 in cash bonus. and the remainder in options. overall. gm paid 5.807 executives $181.7 million in bonuses last year. and ford paid 6.035 executives bonuses totaling $80.6 million. their timing could  have been worse. because the auto industry is approaching the most important event of the yearrenegotiation of the united auto workers contract with gm and ford. these negotiations will begin in early summer. and are expected to conclude before the contract expires in september. the wages. fringe benefits. and working conditions that emerge from these negotiations will have a number of major effects on the industry. labor costs could increase significantly. as a result of the contract it signed in september 1983. for example. chryslers labor costs in the united states are expected to rise about 20 percent from $21 to $26 per hour over the next 2 years. chryslers settlement was just to catch up to gm and ford. their settlements will build upon this base and could be even more generous. obviously. the uaw is seeking a reversal to at least the 1979 levels. and why should they  if they follow the examples of the executives. their war cry is "restore and more in 84." the trouble is that these increases will make the auto worker twice as well paid as the average american worker. and much better paid than his japanese auto industry counterpart. profitability has come as the result of stringent cost reduction programs that increased plant productivity emously. unfortunately. the revitalized industry performance also came at the expense of jobs. but even here. the picture is looking much brighter. employment in the motor vehicles and parts industries has been rising steadily from the bottom hit in the fourth quarter of 1982. in the corresponding period in 1983. employment was 827.000. it rose to 875.000 in the first quarter this year. compared to the peak employment of 1.047.000 reached in the fourth quarter of 1978. the employment picture is  completely bright. but there has been a strong recovery even with the increased output per worker that has been achieved during the last few years.  let us look at some of the harmful effects of domestic content. and i would like to start with jobs. most often quoted is the finding of the congressional budget office that though domestic content might result in some additional u.s. auto jobs. the net effect on u.s. employment would be a loss of 66.000 jobs. a more recent study by the commerce department shows that s. 707 would increase the price of.an average car by about $450. japanese car sales here would decline by about 1 million units. but american car makers would  be helped by the shortage of japanese cars. on the contrary. the study shows that their volume would rise by less than 200.000. the result of negative consumer reaction to higher prices and reduced availability of the types of cars they prefer. the commerce department study shows that the bill would result in gains in auto employment of 30.000. offset by direct losses at u.s. ports. dealerships. and at the u.s. facilities of japanese auto companies of 23.500. and because imposition of domestic content would affect approximately $5.5 billion worth of japanese exports to the united states. the commerce department estimates that 132.000 u.s. auto workers could risk losing their jobs. thus. at the very worst. the domestic content bill could result in the loss of as many as 125.000 american jobs. in short. the cost of this industrys greed would be the jobs of many thousands of americans in other fields. one important area in which jobs would be lost would be the u.s. facilities of the japanese producers. these cars are made very substantially of parts made abroad. thus. were domestic content to become law. these plants would have to completely reorganize production or close. honda and nissan have indicated that they would close their production facilities were domestic content enacted. this would mean the direct loss of 4.000 jobs in these factories. an additional 3.000 jobs could be lost by their suppliers. but since the commerce department study was made. japanese producers here have annced further expansion of their domestic facilities. on may 10. nissan annced plans to build as many as 100.000 subcompact cars a year in tennessee. adding 1.100 additional workers to the 1.900 already employed there. and in march. mazda annced a decision to build 250.000 passenger cars a year in the united states. and honda is  spending $240 million to expand its existing facilities. and to add 700 jobs to its work force of 1.800. and it is well kn that toyota will enter a joint venture with gm to build 250.000 cars a year in california. the point is that company spokesmen have testified that these jobproducing u.s. investments would be terminated and the facilities closed if domestic zontent were to become law. ecoists agree that it would be sensible ecoic behavior for the japanese plant owners to close their operations as they have testified they would. such a move would be consistent with the theory that a company attempting to sell in a permanently restrained market can only be expected to do so from its most efficient production base. the small volumes and higher production cost of u.s. operations under domestic content would disrupt the japanese production system and would be unecoic. these companies. it is argued. would therefore retreat from the united states and attempt to sell as much as permitted from foreign bases of operation.
. this morning a number of my colleagues and i will be discussing the domestic content bill and its harmful implications. i will begin by making the arguments: first. that the industry has used the "breathing space" provided by more than 3 years of quotas to recover with great strength from a period of trial. and second. that the domestic content legislation would hurt american jobs. consumers. and in other ways damage our ecoy and weaken our position among our trading partners. first. auto company sales. profits. salaries. and employment have all increased. the industry had its most profitable year in history in 1983 and will have a much better one in 1984. sales of domestic autos increased from 5.76 million units in 1982. the trough of the recession. to 0.8 million in 1983. based on first quarter performance. cho estimates sales will be 8.3 million in 1984. with the increase in domestic production. and partly reflecting the effect of the quotas. the import share of the domestic market is expected to drop from 27.9 percent in 1982 to a projected 22 percent in 1984. quotas have been one element of the drop in sales of imports. aher important contributor has been the fact that as fuel prices have stabilized. sales of intermediate and large cars increased from 2.9 million units in 1982 to 3.8 million units in 1983. illustrating that the largecar buyer has returned to the market. industry profitability is up dramatically. according to commerce department data. industry profits in the first quarter should be about $2.7 billion. for 1984 as a whole. the industry should earn $9 to $10 billion. chrysler earned more in the first quarter this year than in any full year in its history. in 1983. gms and fords earnings were each greater than in the last prerecession year. 1978. while this is inal income.  adjusted for inflation. it is etheless importaht because it was achieved with sales of almost i million fewer cars than in this booming profit picture has resulted in some extraordinarily selfindulgent behavior in the form of executive compensation. each of general motors top five executives broke the milliondollar compensation barrier with their salaries and bonuses last year. chairman roger smiths compensation package totaled $1.51 million: $625.000 in salary. $433.000 in cash bonus. and the remainder in options. overall. gm paid 5.807 executives $181.7 million in bonuses last year. and ford paid 6.035 executives bonuses totaling $80.6 million. their timing could  have been worse. because the auto industry is approaching the most important event of the yearrenegotiation of the united auto workers contract with gm and ford. these negotiations will begin in early summer. and are expected to conclude before the contract expires in september. the wages. fringe benefits. and working conditions that emerge from these negotiations will have a number of major effects on the industry. labor costs could increase significantly. as a result of the contract it signed in september 1983. for example. chryslers labor costs in the united states are expected to rise about 20 percent from $21 to $26 per hour over the next 2 years. chryslers settlement was just to catch up to gm and ford. their settlements will build upon this base and could be even more generous. obviously. the uaw is seeking a reversal to at least the 1979 levels. and why should they  if they follow the examples of the executives. their war cry is "restore and more in 84." the trouble is that these increases will make the auto worker twice as well paid as the average american worker. and much better paid than his japanese auto industry counterpart. profitability has come as the result of stringent cost reduction programs that increased plant productivity emously. unfortunately. the revitalized industry performance also came at the expense of jobs. but even here. the picture is looking much brighter. employment in the motor vehicles and parts industries has been rising steadily from the bottom hit in the fourth quarter of 1982. in the corresponding period in 1983. employment was 827.000. it rose to 875.000 in the first quarter this year. compared to the peak employment of 1.047.000 reached in the fourth quarter of 1978. the employment picture is  completely bright. but there has been a strong recovery even with the increased output per worker that has been achieved during the last few years.  let us look at some of the harmful effects of domestic content. and i would like to start with jobs. most often quoted is the finding of the congressional budget office that though domestic content might result in some additional u.s. auto jobs. the net effect on u.s. employment would be a loss of 66.000 jobs. a more recent study by the commerce department shows that s. 707 would increase the price of.an average car by about $450. japanese car sales here would decline by about 1 million units. but american car makers would  be helped by the shortage of japanese cars. on the contrary. the study shows that their volume would rise by less than 200.000. the result of negative consumer reaction to higher prices and reduced availability of the types of cars they prefer. the commerce department study shows that the bill would result in gains in auto employment of 30.000. offset by direct losses at u.s. ports. dealerships. and at the u.s. facilities of japanese auto companies of 23.500. and because imposition of domestic content would affect approximately $5.5 billion worth of japanese exports to the united states. the commerce department estimates that 132.000 u.s. auto workers could risk losing their jobs. thus. at the very worst. the domestic content bill could result in the loss of as many as 125.000 american jobs. in short. the cost of this industrys greed would be the jobs of many thousands of americans in other fields. one important area in which jobs would be lost would be the u.s. facilities of the japanese producers. these cars are made very substantially of parts made abroad. thus. were domestic content to become law. these plants would have to completely reorganize production or close. honda and nissan have indicated that they would close their production facilities were domestic content enacted. this would mean the direct loss of 4.000 jobs in these factories. an additional 3.000 jobs could be lost by their suppliers. but since the commerce department study was made. japanese producers here have annced further expansion of their domestic facilities. on may 10. nissan annced plans to build as many as 100.000 subcompact cars a year in tennessee. adding 1.100 additional workers to the 1.900 already employed there. and in march. mazda annced a decision to build 250.000 passenger cars a year in the united states. and honda is  spending $240 million to expand its existing facilities. and to add 700 jobs to its work force of 1.800. and it is well kn that toyota will enter a joint venture with gm to build 250.000 cars a year in california. the point is that company spokesmen have testified that these jobproducing u.s. investments would be terminated and the facilities closed if domestic zontent were to become law. ecoists agree that it would be sensible ecoic behavior for the japanese plant owners to close their operations as they have testified they would. such a move would be consistent with the theory that a company attempting to sell in a permanently restrained market can only be expected to do so from its most efficient production base. the small volumes and higher production cost of u.s. operations under domestic content would disrupt the japanese production system and would be unecoic. these companies. it is argued. would therefore retreat from the united states and attempt to sell as much as permitted from foreign bases of operation.
h.r. 6211 is a bill to provide. jobs and assistance in the repair of roads and highways. would you agree that the u.s. territories have been at least as hard hit as the states by unemployment and a deteriorating infrastructure.
. i should like briefly to explain the amendment. i have discussed it with the chief sponsor of the bill. who is in charge of it on the floor. i am happy to state that he has indicated his feeling that the amendment makes sense. and that he will be willing to accept it. the amendment deals with the part of the area redevelopment act which provides for an occupational retraining program. first. i should say that under aher section of the actsection 6there is also a program under which the secretary is authorized to make loans to enterprises in redevelopment areas. and there is a provision that such loans may  be made if their effect will be to take business away from other areas. this is a rough paraphrase of the purpose. apparently. so far as my experience goes. this provision has worked well. the reports i have received from new jersey indicate that new jersey has  suffered from pirating by reason of that section of the redevelopment act. unfortunately. the same is  true insofar as the retraining program is concerned. in several cases new jersey has lost industry as a result of area redevelopment programs in other states under which people in those states were retrained to take jobs. with the results that jobs formerly provided to residents of new jersey were moved to those states. the problem is general. and it also occurs under other acts. one of them is the retraining act. which most senators support fully. as to section 16. which provides for redevelopment training. it seemed to a number of us that there should be in it some provision comparable to section 6 which provides for the loan program. so in the amendment we provide as follows: training or retraining authorized under this section shall be carried out in order to assist an establishment which itself would  be eligible for assistance under section 6 of the act by reason of relocating from one area to aher. the secretary of labor shall  approve any training or retraining assistance unless he is satisfied. and unless the appropriate state employment or vocational training agency has certified. that such training (1) will  assist any company or its affiliate. subsidiary or other business entity under its direct or indirect common control that has relocated from one area to aher after the date of the enactment of this act. and within five years prior to the date of such approval. and (2) will  assist any such business entity to expand in such a way as to cause the unemployment of its regular employees in any other area where the business entity conducts business operations. i have stated that in new jersey there has been specific experience of this sort. i shall mention two instances. one involves the mack truck co.. which a year or so ago moved to maryland. i am quite certain that at the time when the move was made. we were given assurances. from the redevelopment agency in washington. that the act would  be used to assist in retraining people for work for the mack truck co. in its new location. certainly those who gave such assurances meant them. and i believe they tried to do what they could under the laws then existing. but retraining did occur by means of the funds made available under the redevelopment act. and jobs formerly held by people in plainfield. n.j.. were taken by people in maryland who were retrained under that act. aher instance of this sort involves the rca. in camdem. n.j. the rca has many plants throughout the country. aher of its plants is located in cambridge. ohio. where there is an area redevelopment program which includes a retraining program. engineers employed by the rca in new jersey have made the very specific charge that area redevelopment retraining has produced new employees for rca in the cambridge. ohio. area. to do work which the company formerly had done in camden. n.j. it seems to me that this is unfortunate and is  intended. i mention this for the sake of the record. to explain that although we are  opposing this program and although i intend to vote for it. i believe this correction should be made. i am happy to state that. after conferences with the senator from illis. i find him sympathetic to the amendment.
like the senator from oregon. i. too. have had the benefit of a briefing on this subject. the senator has emphasized the emergency nature of the dispute. the estimates which i have madeand i think they are fairly accurate---indicate that this dispute could cost as much as a 5percent reduction in the gross national product of the united states. if it should continue for even a modest period of time. this is a totally unacceptable burden and i am grateful to him for having done sor have expressed myself as being against compulsory arbitration. some will endeavor to define what the president has suggested as being compulsory arbitration. at first impressionand that is all we havei do  believe it incurs many of the objections which have been made to compulsory arbitration. i do  believe the labor unions will like the proposal particularly. and i regret that very much. it gives congress an added responsibility to afford a fair opportunity. to be heard. within the limits of the emergency. to all interested parties. but what the president is trying to do. as we can see it so far. is to provide a forum in which there may be an approval of mediation efforts and agreements. and only to use that forum for adjudication when there is possibility whatever of getting the parties together on any of the elements of solution. also. the interstate commerce commission is a quasijudicial body. having many builtin safeguards against arbitrary action. and a history and tradition of successful regulation of the railroad industry. all of that. i believe. distinguishes this situation. at first impression. from the classic compulsory arbitration. in. which an arbitrator is appointed who has the power to make a binding determination. i had  thought of the icc approach. others perhaps had. but i had .. to me. it seems at the moment to be a way out. i join with the senator from oregon in emphasizing the urgency of dealing with the total automation problem. the president in this very message recommends the appointment of a commission for that purpose. finally. the nation faces a national emergency of a grievous character. it is necessary in the national interest to find a oneshot means to determine the issue. at first impression this would seem to be a feasible means. mally. i favor seizure in cases of this character. but in this case that would be impractical. because then the united states would be in exactly the position in which the railroads- find themselves . they. too. would have to find some way out of the dilemma with their workers. and probably would go. too. to the interstate commerce commission. and then we would be right back where we began. in concluding.  has done about as well as could be expected by recommending that this authority be given the interstate commerce commission.
the senator has made that statement advisedly. as a part of the way in which the bill would be administered. because a number of the states involved are well able to hold up their ends. they are among the states which enjoy fine gross national product positions and per capita income positions in the country. but the policy of administering the bill would be to require a state first to utilize the regular highway funds. at least up to the national average of utilization. before it could enter into the program.
