. i regret very much to differ with my colleague and close friend from california . i k him well egh to k that he will like me the better for my frankness in differing. i am forced to speak. though i had intention whatever of speaking on this bill. because my friend and colleague on the democratic side has seen fit to accept this amendment. i have doubt that the amendment will be passed. but i would like it to be recorded that i will vote against it and i would like to state why. this is a very august body and sometimes it is necessary to speak for the record. so that whatever is thought. as part of the debate. shall be recorded for the future. what are we doing by this amendment. we are doing what is popularly called saying positively. this bill already states that the extension of the date is until 1950. and by adding this proviso which is offered by way of amendment we say. "we  only mean it is only until 1950. but we mean positively." and what do we accomplish by that. we hand to every communist propagandist behind the iron curtain the opportunity completely to nullify what we are doing here today. it adds hing whatever to the legislation and completely saps it of whatever effectiveness it may have. and it has important effectiveness as a propaganda weapon. there is hing to stop the childrens fund from expanding its program. even if we write this proviso into this legislation. and there is hing whatever to stop any member of this body from putting in a bill contiguous to next june 30 despite what is put into this legislation by this language. which will seek to extend it to 1951. there is hing to stop this house from doing it. and i may say that if the urgency is upon us the house will undoubtedly  be deterred by this proviso from doing it. in short. by adopting this amendment we are going through a pointless. exercise in the interest of making a pass at ecoy and nullifying completely the propaganda effect of a very potent propaganda instrument. because here we are dealing with a very sympathetic question. the lives and the welfare of children. the united states shows by this legislation that it is  alone trying to put the american flag on everything that it sends over to europe. that it is perfectly willing to cooperate in an effective united nations program. i am  saying this in the hope that this amendment will  be adopted. for it will be adopted. but i am saying it anyhow. because i think by adopting this phraseology we are nullifying much of the propaganda effect of our action in making these funds further available. the gentleman from california is one of the most ardent advocates of effective anticommunist propaganda. but the effect of his amendment will be to nullify it insofar as this measure is concerned. i am sorry to say.
