. for a few minutes today i would like to bring to life the priority of mass transit. i do this because the time is  in this nation when peoples energies are best spent on being "for" rather than "against." frankly. i k i can make a better case against the sst by using my energies speaking for mass transit. there is the added benefit that after the smoke clears. what is left are  victors and vanquished but a positive result. if the argument i present today fails. let it be so because someone else won his point by being more positive. more constructive. more of a builderand  because he was more of a wrecker. in short. what i am saying is that whether in the best of times or worst of times governing will always mean choosing and i hope the choices of this nation will be survivors of tests of logic and intellect and  products of successful ridicule. fear. or untruth. first. i would like to set my feelings straight on many of the arguments used against the sst. i do  think it would be ecologically or environmentally unsound. i believe that science and techogy must go forward. can be compatible with nature. and would be so in this instance. do i expect the products of free enterprise any more than the products of the u.s. senate to be total perfection from the instant of their birth.  i do . and anybody who is trying to make us a nation of instant perfectionists puts a priority on timidity rather than achievement. the greatness of this country was built on trial and erroron the fact that men and women could make their dreams tangible without fear that if they risked and lost. their freedoms or even their lives would be forfeited. do i think the proponents of the sst are insensitive to the wellbeing of the people of the united states.  i do . they are fighting for their beliefs as evidenced by their project i am going to fight for mine as evidenced by mass transit. the years 197172 with their shortage of domestically allocated funds and deluge of domestic demands make harded choosing inevitable. but to be very specific. let us narrow the choosing process down to transportation only. in other words. "fair" comparing the sst to housing anymore than mass transit to education. and so forth. but "fair" to compare the situation. the money and the people served as between the sst and mass transit.
the senator is correct. that is one of the examples that we gave. i think it is a very flagrant and startling one. i am sure that we could give other examples that would certainly point to the needthe very great needto open up housing. obviously any negro that has to travel 74 miles a day can hold the job. he would  only be denied housing. but he would also be denied employment by reason of that fact. where are the schools the worst. they are worst in the central cities where the negroes are living today. and from which they can escape. so. we have education and employment affected by housing. i would certainly place housing as the top priority. i think it is very important. because if negroes are able to live where they want. then they will be able to get these jobs. again. in the last session of the congress. we had legislation proposed for government incentives to be offered for the location of industry in areas where negroes were living. if negroes could live anywhere. we would  have to relocate industry all over the country. we are trying to keep negroes living in segregated ghettos in the nation. and what we need to do is to destroy these ghettos. that will  happen overnight. it will take time. however. i think. as the able .senator from minnesota well set forth in his opening statement. there will  be this great rush to the suburbs. there never has been. as people are educated and have the opportunity and the wherewithal to move. they ought to be able to move. that is all that the amendment would provide.
. i ask unanimous consent that a statement made by albert l. king. director of marine terminals. the port of new york authority. in support of s. 2519 before the subcommittee on real estate and military construction of the armed services committee of the senate. be printed in the record at this point.
 of the united states was pressing a program to preserve natural beauty. highway engineers threatened to run an interstate multilane highway through west potomac park. site of the famous japanese cherry trees. only a short distance from the white house. it has taken a determined struggle by a handful of people. myself included. to prevent this destruction from taking place. the need for an effective program to protect americas park land could  be more clear. this need is rooted in both esthetic and practical considerations. with urbanization swiftly taking hold of our country. we must give priority consideration to the appearance of the landscape or else watch it grow ugly in the onrush of steel and concrete. the practical side of the problem is the changing pattern of americas recreational requirements. according to park experts in and out of the federal government. recreationwhether participation in sports or quiet enjoyment of natureis longer a luxury to be left for vacation time. for todays american. with more leisure time on his hands. it is an everyday need. this need. according to federal experts. is. or will be. particularly acute in urban areas. a study of urban open space made recently by the department of housing and urban development estimated that while general recreation needs will triple by the year 2000. the demand for recreational opportunities a half hour from home "is estimated to increase tenfold" in the same period. in the face of these projections. it is distressing to learn from the hud study that urban open space is disappearing at about the rate of 1 million acres a year. to reverse this trend. to meet the open space challenge before us. will require less than a complete change of thinking about park land as well as the development of some new tools to assure its preservation. the present concept which puts high value on such things as highways and dams. but value on park or recreational land. must be changed. the bill i propose is. i believe. a practical way to begin that change. it will say simply that parks and open space are  there for anybodys taking. but that they bear a real price: replacement land that is "comparable in value. quantity. and quality." i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at the conclusion of my statement.
. the superiority of the trust fund approach over contract authority was discussed during last years mass transit hearings before the senate subcommittee on housing and urban affairs. a colloquy between senator proxmire and transportation secretary volpe on this matter is most illuminating and i ask that the excerpt i have extracted from the hearing transcript be printed in the record.
. speaking of the exhibit of the united states at the moscow fair. i think we owe it to the people of the soviet union to say a few words about a man who is attracting a great deal of attention in moscow. he might be called "the little man who wasnt there." the new york times of this morning reports that the russian newspaper. sovetskaya kultura. a propaganda organ of the soviet government. like all other soviet newspapers. has continued that governments campaign of assailing the u.s. exhibit as fiction. on the ground that the model onefamily home exhibited there is a part of the "myth of the average american." we have news for the russians. i ask unanimous consent to have made a part of my remarks in the record a letter from mr. man p. mason. administrator of the housing and home finance agency. who denies that there is but one model of such a home. he shows that there are thousands of them. he identifies one specifically as belonging to mr. and mrs. brantley hart. who drives a truck for a livinga very hoable occupation in my section of the country. mr. and mrs. brantley hart and their children live in a suburb of baltimore named country club estates. in a $13.000 home. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from mr. mason. as well as the story of mr. brantley harts home. be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
i am very grateful to the senator from connecticut. i k of hing i would rather be commended for than for my interest in this bill. i am a child of the big city. and i k what it means to live there. and how complex and difficult are a citys problems. the senator from connecticut has performed an outstanding job of leadership and creativity in marshaling the necessary support for the bill and in blending the ideas and in helping to construct a better bill than we have ever had before on this subject. the pending bill may prove to be one of the finest efforts the senator from connecticut has ever made in his most distinguished career as gover. cabinet member. and representative. while the federal government can do much in solving the problems of the metropolitan man. state and local governments. closest to the people can do much also. the bill expressly encourages the role in community development of states and localities and sections 2 and 3 of the bill specifies that the new department is intended to work with and assist the states and county governments in coping with their responsibilities to urban growth. the presidents message on urban affairs recognized that the vast bulk of resources and energy. of talent and toil. in solving community development programs will have to come from state and local governments. it is vitally important that the states and local authorities utilize to the fullest their capabilities and do . merely because of the creation of this new department. defer to the illusion that a new executive department in washington will solve all their development problems. local government enterprise as well as private enterprise have important roles in the problems of our metropolitan areas as s. 1599 clearly recognizes. and such efforts must be stimulated. local creativity should  be impeded by the philosophy of "let washington take care of the whole problem." the constructive partnership of federal. state. and local governments in this area must grow. we can afford a let down of local and private initiative. the federal government has  moved as quickly as some would have wanted to meet the nations responsibility to the cities. today millions of americans live in giant metropolitan areas which ige state lines. for example. the metropolitan area of new york extends into connecticut and new jerseywith each state having its own problems in the fields of housing. transportation. community facilities. recreation to name only a few. it is clear that one state can legislate for such a metropolitan area. i believe that the newly created department ought to place a major focus on regional planning for our metropolitan areas. while s. 1599 does expressly encourage regional planning. it is vitally necessary that efforts to further implement regional development be undertaken by the department. while a number of programs such as the section 701 planning grants under the housing act. mass transit assistance. and community facilities programs operated by the department contain regional planning requirements. the department should. on its own. implement regional coordination and planning. i believe this might be carried out by the new department through creation of metropolitan councils established within each of 12 geographical regions. similar in size to the federal reserve system areas. composed of federal. state. local. and community leaders. each metropolitan council would concern itself with the particular problems of its area and would provide specific regional planning recommendations for the tailoring to the respective area of federal programs such as urban renewal. community facilities. area redevelopment. interstate highways. and mass transportation. the regional councils would study the particular area problems and provide reports and information to the secretary of the new department. the metropolitan councils could also operate grant programs financed by the respective areas. in the new york area. several regional authorities already exist: the bistate port of new york authority. and the tristate committee of the govers of new york. new jersey. and connecticut to coordinate transportation planning. metropolitan councils could work along with such existing authorities and supplement their contributions. i hope that the secretary of the new department will give careful study to this proposal of metropolitan regional planning machinery such as metropolitan councils and will do all possible to implement the express intent of s. 1599 to further this concept. . with further reference to the serious need for coordination of urban programs to which i referred. i ask unanimous consent that there may be made a part of my remarks a list of some 60 programs in the various government agencies concerned which might be coordinated by the office of urban program coordination within the new department. a compilation of such programs is contained in the report of the government operations committee of the house of representatives on a similar bill. in pages 46 to 49 of that report..
. if i may have the attention of the senator from west virginia. there are two items in this bill which are of great importance and need clarification. both refer to the urban impact of this particular measure. one is contained in section 114. which appears at page 19 of the bill. the other is contained in title ii of the bill. which appears at page 27. and deals with relocation and relocation assistance. it will be ed that there are a number of urban impact amendments which considerably expand the concept of road construction and deal with adjustments to reduce adverse ecoic. social. environmental. and other impact caused by a roadbuilding project. there is also added. in connection with the ecoic effects of such an activity. the language "and social effects. of such a location. its impact on the environment. and its consistency with the goals and objectives of the community." finally. there is the substitution of the operative word "urban" for the operative word "transportation" in terms of the consideration which must be given to the various effects and relationships of an urban road project i am sure the committee has  written in these amendments without a very serious purposea purpose which was long overdue. i may say. this country is  70percent urbanized. and for too long the construction of interstate highways has proceeded with relatively little regard to the various criteria which are  going to be set up in the law. i am sure the committee acted seriously. i am sure it is a very deliberate position which represents a very serious reorientation of thinking in our country. i rise. first. to emphasize that fact. i feel that the committee has come abreast in a very important way with modern times. this may prove to be one of the most significant things which it has done in this bill. second. i rise in order to elucidate more completely the import of the amendment. which would substitute the word "urban" for the word "transportation." this substitution could have great significance or little significance. is it the chairmans understanding that the department of housing and urban development will. with the department of transportation. which has the direct administration of this bill. develop criteria which will insure that the department of transportation will approve only those urban highways. under this system. which are commensurate with comprehensive urban planning for the particular area.
. i have for some time been deeply concerned about the problem of se pollution. and. in particular. aircraft se. this problem is a particularly serious one in many parts of new york state. the metropolitan new york city area is one of the busiest air centers in the world. presently. there is need to develop a new jet port and many smaller satellite airports in this region. all of this will add to the already serious problem which aircraft se causes to those who live close to airportsan ever increasing number. for this reason. i have repeatedly sought to stimulate federal action to meet this growing crisis. i proposed an amendment to the housing and urban development act of 1965. which was accepted. which required the housing and home finance administrator to undertake a study of ways in which the hardship and ecoic depreciation suffered by homeowners in the vicinity of airports might be reduced. in 1966. i unsuccessfully proposed an amendment to the department of transportation act which would have established within that new department an office of aircraft se abatement. i believed then. as i do . that what is required is a unified attack on this problem by the federal government. under its provisions the administrator of the federal aviation agency. in consultation with the secretary of transportation. would prescribe and amend standards for the measurement. control and abatement of aircraft se and sonic boom. this is done through the certifying procedure and power already vested in faa. including. among other things. airworthiness certificates. air carrier operating certificates and airman certificates. although  a perfect procedure. it does seem to me that this is a most worthwhile beginning. i remain convinced that there must be a more intensive and coordinated research effort aimed at the reduction and eventual elimination of the most serious effects of aircraft se. naturally. such a solution rests on a comprehensive attack on all the environmental problems of our cities. se pollution. as other environmental problems. can  be solved in isolation. however. we can and must act  to reduce aircraft se. i support this bill and urge its passage.
. it seems to me that the key to this situation is how much selfimprovement we want. rather than how much money the united states is going to devote to it. the whole model city complex depends very heavily and very completely on reorganizationin many cases. new roads and new approaches in welfare. education. and other matters than housing in these respective cities. the plea for renewal to which we responded in the committee by a majority vote was based upon the key point that unless we give the second round cities an opportunity. to plan. we will cut down a number of the second round cities. this is a very critical amendment. we do  even get off the ground with respect to the selfhelp feature. by virtue of cutting it. that is why the senator from wdshington led the committee so very wisely in the matter of restoration of funds to give an opportunity for new cities to come into the picture. we will never k whether they could or could  engage in it and whether they were or were  worthy of the effort unless we provide the money so that they could be recognized and included in the model cities program.
. the 1hour limitation. i would suggest. because i am anxious to facilitate the work of the majority leader. that i would need an hour and a half on the urban mass transit proposal. because there are so many senators interestedthat is. an hour and a half for my side. on the housing problem. i would be willing to take an hour. that is. a 2hour limitation with 1 hour on each side. also. i would wish the right preserved to offer amendments to amendments. so that we would  cut off amendments in the second degree.
