. we are  engaged in a series of hearings before the executive reorganization subcommittee of the government operations committee. of which i am a member and of which my colleague from new york is also a member. we are learning from the attorney general of the united states that he regards the incendiary potential building up within the cities as being so great that he can assure us there will be riots in as many as 40 cities. we are suffering from great demographic and social changes in the great cities of this country. from an emous increase in populationit  amounts to 125 million people out of an aggregate population in the united states of somewhat under 200 millionwhich repre.sents a literal revolution in population change. the flow of people from the rural areas to the urban areasincluding a great outpouring from the southern states. heavily attributable to a century of suppression of the negro people in the south. all this has created emous problems of the greatest moment to public order and tranquillity. one thing is clearwhatever we may do. whatever it is our intention to do. the time to do it is  and  tomorrow. with the best faith in the world. if it is given us to have only planning funds for great projects in the cities of a comprehensive nature such as are contemplated in the pending bill. it will be necessary to defer realization for at least the 2 years which could be indispensible in preventing what may happen in many of our great cities. it is unfortunate that we have this concentration of problems in the cities at the same time we are fighting a war in vietnam. but. let us remember. we have the great productive power of the united states with us. we must therefore try to utilize a fair allocation of our resources so that we do . by design. delay the consummation of what is urgently required in order to bring a condition of tranquillity back to the country and return security to the people of the cities125 million strong. it is clear from the testimony to which we have been listening every morningincluding this morningthat one of the most urgent problems on which this program can zero in is the comprehensive approach to do something with important sections of the city. especially its central core. we have had express testimony from the attorney general. from the secretary of health. education. and welfare. from the secretary of housing and urban development. from the government officials who testified. they pick out this demonstration cities program as the key to whether or  we can get moving toward a solution of the problems. if we let this slide. we are inviting what we will getto wit. disorder in the cities. disorders and riots. if we do  pass it. we leave them alternative but to loot and burn as a product of their despair. of course. we will suppress that disorder. neither i  anyone else will condone anarchy. but it is a terrible cost to pay for failure to generate what is proposed here on the part of the congress. i shall marshal my arguments in favor of the bill for a later time.
