 monroe spoke for all america when he said in his annual message to congress in 1821: genius and delicacy in the arts. daring and heroism in action. unselfish patriotism. enthusiastic zeal. and devotion to public and private liberty. all these are connected with the name of ancient greece. it is natural that their (the greeks) contest should arouse the sympathy of the united states. from my own state of massachusetts came important american support for greek independence. edward everett of harvard entitled his oration for the degree of master of arts in 1814. "the restoration of greece." it was everett who later assisted daniel webster in his famous statement on greece delivered before the congress. this feeling of camaraderie with our greek friends has increased over the years. many americans of greek ancestry have contributed a great deal to our culture and our ecoy. shortly after world war ii greece met still aher threat to libertyfrom communist guerrillas. at that time the heart of america again went out to the greek people and our first major postwar military assistance went to greece in that hour of need. the wisdom of our support for greece has been demonstrated time and time again as the greek people have tried hard to bring about steady ecoic growth and social reformin a framework of democratic respect for human dignity. they are succeeding and will continue to succeed. i am sure. our relations have remained close through the years and it is with great pleasure that i rise on the floor today to pay tribute to the le heritage of the greek people. we stand with them in a true spirit of brotherhood and share their hope and ideal of a world at peace under justice.
. it is a sad comment on our time that we can spend more than $70 billion on our national defense. that we can spend additional billions on space efforts. but still quarrel about a comparatively small sum to study the thoughts and the words that make up our heritage of western civilization. i will vote for the full funding recommended by the committee in good conscience. to me this is a small measure of respect to the men whose thinking. whose writing. and whose actions have made our past a great resource of strength to us . and as a small gesture to the scholars who make our past and our heritage a very real part of our present. . of all times. we can ige our history or our culture. . obsessed as we are by the arts of war and the techniques of destruction. we can turn our backs on the "humane studies." never was there a time when we needed them more.
. i urge all who do ries of figures. 19 in all. i believe. in a have an opportunity to avail themvery haunting memory of what took selves of the opportunity to visit that place in korea. each of the figures has memorial. there is an eeriness to it. a poncho. while they are soldiers. ma- but i think that is correct. i think it rines advancing in a loose formation. will bring back for those who have been and i think the way the figures are de- to korea many memories. and for those signed it gives an impression of the cli- who have . it will bring to their atmate of korea. the arduousness of the tention the fact that more people lost climate. it brings back memories of their lives in korea in those short 3 the very coldness that was in korea in years. than did in the entire vietnam the winter. and in the summer the ex- war. which lasted some 10 years. and i treme heat that took place there. think it is so fitting that at last we do it was my privilege to serve in korea have a memorial for that war. in the summer of 1951. the fall of 1951. mr. reid addressed the chair. the winter of 1951 and 1952. and during the presiding officer. the senthat time i had the opportunity to ator from nevada. serve as a rifle company commander in mr. reid. before the senator from the marines in d company of the 7th rhode island leaves the floor. i would regiment of the 1st marine division. like to say a few words. i was just passwe were defending the steep hills in ing through the chamber when i heard the eastern section of korea. the distinguished senator from rhode what are some of the memories that island speaking. i have of those days. first. mr. presi- i had on my schedule to go to the dent. what comes to memory is the ex- ceremony today. but there was a full treme competence of the young ma- appropriations committee markup of rines with whom i was serving. i guess two bills. so i was unable to do that. i was old compared to them. i was 27 at but i think it would be wrong if i did the time. and these young enlisted  say something about my feelings men. most of them were 19 or 20 years toward the senator from rhode island old. but what struck me was  only based upon his experiences as a marine their ability to endure extreme hard- in both the second world war. and. of ships. whether the hardships of the course. the korean war. march or the hardships coming with i have expressed briefly to the senthe dangers that were involved. or the ator on aher occasion the experihardships of the coldness and the heat ence i had of reading a book. i was that i just described. but also the com- lieutenant gover of nevada. and petence that they displayed. during the time that i was lieutenant when you said to a young group of gover. the gover of nevada. six marines. the oldest being 20 years mike ocallaghan. was a korean war old. that they were to take a patrol veteran who lost a leg and was severely down in front of our lines. go deep. wounded in other ways. gover down. cross the river. go up on the ocallaghan was also my high school other side and scout out the enemy ter- government teacher. so. i had a treritory. they listened carefully. and ab- mendous curiosity about that war. and sorbed their instructions to carry them i saw a book review of a book on the out without a phrase of objection or korean war called "the coldest war." reticence or fear. and all of that re- it was the first real definitive work on flected i think  only on their back- the korean war. written by james ground but the wonderful training they brady. a reporter for newsweek magazine. who was also a marine in korea. it was a wonderful book talking about the coldest war. the hero of the book was john chafee. a captain in the marine corps during the korean conflict. and james brady. who still writes for newsweek. could  cover his respect and admiration for his superior in that war. john chafee. and i would recommend to all the members of the senate to read that book about the korean war. it is important that there has been attention focused on this conflict as a result of our dedicating that memorial today. it is a war that a lot of us do  understand what a difficult war it was. in korea. 1 out of every 9 men that went to korea lost their lives. in the second world war. 1 out of 12. the vietnam conflict. 1 out of 19. it was a place where. if you pick a place  to have a war. you would go to korea where they fought the war. it was these very big mountains. coldest weather you can imagine. so. i say to my friend from rhode island that. on behalf of the u.s. senate and the people of america. i extend my appreciation to you. you are what is good represented in this country. you have dedicated your life to public service. you have dedicated your life on two occasions to serving your country in uniform. and you did it very valiantly. for which i am and the rest of the american public are grateful.
i thank the distinguished senator from california. i e the majority leader is on the floor . let me say this: i am  just calling on the president to comply with the law. i am calling upon the u.s. senate to act too. that is what is involved here. the senate. us. there is point sitting here pointing the finger at what the president has done if we do  have the courage to do it ourselves. let me say to the senator from california. i have agreed. along with the distinguished senator from west virginia. the distinguished senator from virginia. and others i k of. to sit down and devise amendments to the war powers act. it is clearly deficient. most particularly it is deficient in the sense. in the way i read it and the way everybody else reads it. the senate never has to act. obviously. we want to have a situation in there which has taken specific action. but i want to make it clear it is  a question right i have heard all from oliver th and mr. goetz and others as to what they think the law to be. they thought they were doing this and it was their opinion that. forget it. the law is clear and it is on the books and we obey it until we change it or get rid of it. i do  want to lend the prestige of the u.s. senate to this idea that is sort of grabbing the nation right  that everybody can have their own interpretation as to what the law is or what laws we will obey or what laws we will  obey. . we all admit the law is deficient and it should be changed. and it will be changed. in the meantime i suggest we obey it. as i indicated when the distinguished majority leader came to the floor. i would hope that upon disposition of this billand i do  want to hold it up any longerand upon whatever action he plans to take on the verity ination. we would raise the matter in senate joint resolution 194 and i would be prepared to vote immediately on it. if there are those who want to filibuster it and  have a vote. let them get up here and say so and we can get on to other things. but as i said i am  concerned that there will be ample opportunity again and again and again to make us look like idiots in our disregard of the law. i can assure my colleagues. as much affection as i have for the institution and for them. i am going to make sure that is exactly what we do look like until finally we act one way or the other.
. i was shocked and deeply saddened by the news of the untimely and tragic death of my dear friend and colleague in the congress. ralph metcalfe. the city of chicago. the state of illis and. indeed. the entire nation. have suffered a great loss. ralph was blessed with many gifts. both as an athlete and in his chosen profession as a public servant. he was always willing to share those considerable gifts with the people of this nation. a nation he loved so much. i doubt that there are many americans of my generation who will ever forget ralphs incredible accomplishments as a sprinter in the 1930s. he represented the united states at the 1932 olympics in los angeles and at the 1936 olympics in berlin. at a time when hilter was claiming to lead an aryan "master race." he and the great jesse owens scored magnificent victories against the concept of racial superiority by soundly beating their german opponents. in his olympic career. this marvelous athlete won a gold medal. two silvers. and a bronze. he thrilled those of us who heard of his exploits on the radio and from the newspapers and made young blacks like myself proud of our race and proud of our nation. ralph metcalfe could have stopped there. he was a celebrity and a star. but he did  stop. he attended marquette university and the university of southern california. he served his nation in the army and in the uso during world war ii. and then he became the state of illis first black state athletic commissioner. as an elected public official. beginning in 1955 with his service as an alderman in chicago. ralph metcalfe displayed a tremendous sensitivity in dealing with people and their problems. he never lost that ability. he had a strength of character which gave him the moral leverage to command respect when he chose to speak out on important issues. and speak out he did. ralph metcalfe was a man of conscience and dignity and he was uncompromising in the pursuit of equity and mutual tolerance. he possessed an independent spirit and was  afraid to challenge those who failed to act in the interest of his constituents and the people of chicago. he was a fighter and he was  afraid to take on tough opponents when he believed his cause to be just. i am proud to have counted him as a friend. i k i shall miss his energy and his forthright. honest manner. i valued his advice and he was a source of counsel and strength to many. his passing is a tremendous loss  only to his constituents in chicagos south side. but also to the black congressional caucus. which he helped found. to his colleagues in the house and. indeed. to all citizens across this land. to his devoted wife. fay. his son. ralph. jr.. and his host of friends. i extend my deepest sympathy. my prayers are with them. and i k my colleagues in the senate join with me in extending our deepest regrets to his family. this truly outstanding individual will be missed by all.*
. ladies. and gentleman of the house. joint chiefs of staff. hoed guests. friends from tennessee: what a pleasure it is to be here today to take part in this celebration hoing the 200th anniversary of our great flag. the last time i was in washington was july 4. 1976. at aher big celebration hoing the 200th birthday of our country. we did a concert over here in front of the washington monument. and that night we had about 1 million people. as best they could count. june was  with me at that time. and i thought that was a pretty good crowd for me to have when i did  have my wife with me. with the name of carter. it was really a high time for us. i thank you for this great ho to be here with you today. last february 1976. my father was talking about wanting to put a flagpole in his yard. he is 80 years old . daddy is a world war i veteran. and he likes to see the flag go up and down every day. he asked me to see if i could find him one. and i went to hardware stores in gallatin. tenn.. and all around our county. i came back to him a couple of days later. and i said. "daddy. i cant find one. everybody is sold out of flagpoles." sold out of flagpoles. i thought that spoke very well for the country. for the mood and for the spirit that our country was feeling then. and what was going on in the country. and how the mood had turned to the positive. there was a positive force and a positive power going on. but we knew that was going to happen all alongjohnny carter and i didbecause about 3 years before that. one aftern i took him to a matinee. and that was when there was a lot of bad news coming out of washington every day. there was a pall of negativity hanging over this place. and it was extended throughout the land. so we. like what a lot of americans were doing. escaped to a movie one aftern. there was john carter and myself. and about 500 other kids. watching "herby rides again." we forgot it all. we forgot it all for a few minutes. and as i watched those kids running up and down that aisle. and jumping and playing---all that laughter and youth and energyi just knew that things were going to get better in this country. because here was the future of our country watching. "herby rides again." and running and laughing and playing and feeling good about it all. and king that there was a future for them. when we put john carter to bed that night. i thought a lot about it. and i got up and i walked the floor. before i could go to sleep. i sat down and wrote this:
. in the pages of history a great nation is frequently judged by the level of its culture. in the cold war today. the measure of the free worlds appraisal of the united states is often based on the quality of its artistic expression. in the struggle to persuade the uncommitted nations of the world. the cultural gap may prove seriously damaging. to close this gap federal aid is necessary. and i have proposed legislation to establish a u.s. arts foundation. i have also urged that hearings be held on this and other proposals for federal aid to the arts. many states have already moved into this area. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article entitled "the outlook for federal aid to the arts." written by george w. oakes. which was published in the washington sunday star of december 17. 1961.
in the column. by reporters roland evans and robert ack. the point is made that. based upon the talks which one of the reporters has had at the meeting of the republican national committee in denver. they are tending to a conclusion that "these republicans want to unmistakably establish the party of lincoln as the white mans party." or to a party which at least is tending toward something of a neutral position on the segregation issue. i do  question the good faith of these reporters or their responsibility as journalists. but i certainly question very strongly their seeming conclusions derived from those to whom they talked. i do  believe that what this article says will change the party of lincoln from being what it isa party which was founded in the fires of war over a century ago in connection with the very issue which the country faces as a national crisis today. so i reject any idea that the party of which i am a member will take on a white party label. or seek to become a white supremacy party in any sense. that would be the greatest disservice to my party. it would represent a great disservice to the nation. which has the right to look at us. as the party of lincoln. to be one of the most stalwart advocates of civil rights legislation in our land. i refer to the fact that during president eisenhowers administration the first two civil rights bills in 85 years went on the statute books. they were bipartisan acts. but they were enacted at that time. the temper of the republican administration was for them. also an analysis of the votes from 1957 on shows the strong dependence which must be placed upon votes on this republican side of the aisle if we are to have any civil rights legislation at all. i call specifically to the attention of the senate the vote on the motion for cloture with respect to amending the rule xxii which permits of filibusters. in which a majority of republicans. or 18 out of 33. voted for cloture. that was in my opinion a very recent and a very acid test. so i reject any idea that my party has changed its coloration or its character from being the party of lincoln. i think that point will be demonstrated in the coming struggle on civil rights legislation. i believe that the country can believe any such report as this. it represents a grave disservice to my party and a great disservice to its character and the way in which it can best serve america. i hope that any republicans who entertain such ideas will speedily dispel them. because i believe they would tend toward the destruction of my party should republicans ever undertake any such line of policy.
i am  challenging anything that the senator just said. which dealt pretty much with the problem intra the democratic majority of the committee. i k the senator from oregon is a thoughtful. courageous. and independent man. i would appreciate it if the senator would make a comment on this matter. i complained about the size of the effort which we are undertaking and the fact that it does  match the size and the urgency of the problem. i took my text from yesterdays meeting of the urban coalition here in washington. in addition to all of the programs which are on the books and are to be implemented by way of appropriations that the president is urging us to approve. some broader and more conceptual effort is needed to really meet the issue. i pointed out. for example. the emous opportunitieswith which the senator ks i have been identified for so long hereto utilize the american business system in a deliberate way. it is really somewhat sad that we had to ask an ad hoc coalition to stir itself up and lay before the white house the emous power of companies and the intensity. experience. and employment opportunities in all of the fields concerning the responsibility for engaging in a massive way in the antipoverty effort. i think the response would be immediate on  only the local. but also the national level. as the senator ks. i have been interested in such efforts for a very long time. it is that about which i complain. i am  questioning the sincerity of the president. but i think he is so obsessed with the vietnamese war that he overlooks some other matters. i hope the senator willand i k that he will do soseparate himself in his answer from his own deep feelings about the vietnamese war. but i believe the people in the cities have the feeling that the president is so obsessed with the vietnamese struggle. so desirous of fitting everything into it. that there is a failure to give at least equal priority to this agony of the cities. as i and others have called it. that is what i complained about strongly. i hope the senator. in what he says--which i ho. and i am  disputing itwill bear in mind that that is really the complaint.  that anybody gets too excited about the intraplay within the majority party with respect to the problem of presidential responsibility and congressional responsibility. i really believe. in all honestyand i have been accused in my own party of supporting the administration to excess. so i do  have to protest my feeling of partisanship on that scorethat there is a legitimate complaint about the questions of priority and. beyond that. and more important. the question of the size. the conceptual size. of what is being undertaken as compared with what needs to be undertaken.
the senator is absolutely right about the fact that he has the right to protect the soldiers and that he has the right to pull them out. but he does  have the right under the guise of protecting the soldiers without congressional authority to broaden the theater of the war or the commitment. he does  have the right to leave them in at his sole discretion when leaving them in continues to involve the united states in a broadscale war. the only way we can demonstrate that as a matter of law is by clearing the books. as the senator says. of the very resolution which gives him that authority. if he continues to invoke this power. we say. ". you say you dont want this. fine. we dont want it either. let us take it off the books." this is the "end of the war" resolution in my judgment.
i should like very much. because we are certainly  anxious to create any big problems if there are e. to deal with the problem in a congenial way to all concerned. we have had some bitter experience with interpretations made on the floor. we could write a few books about assurances of managers of bills. for example. on the gulf of tonkin resolution and what was ultimately done with the gulf of tonkin resolution. in view of its plain words of the legislation. it occurred to my executive assistant mr. lakeland. who is helping me follow this bill. and i think it is a sound inquiryiin light of the situation. so that i am pursuing it. i think it will be a service to the senate and the country. i submit this also to my colleagues. like the senator from kentucky and others.- who have been leaders in this fight for months. would the senator from washington feel it was appropriate and fair to use the word he usedto wit. "emergency" and to say. "made necessary by emergency changes in army missions. and so forth." thereby implementing this discussion and at least adding something to the bill to represent our acceptance of the word used by the senator from washington as the reason why we should  feel such a broad grant of authority was necessary.
