madam president. i wish to commend the members of the senate agriculture committee for the excellent bill before us today. the hunger prevention act. the tragic drought in the midwest has reduced the availability or surplus commodities for the temporary emergency food assistance program [tefap]. meanwhile. the number of homeless and those  covered by other programs remains high. the committee has responded to this problem swiftly and effectively. this bill requires the department of agriculture to purchase 145 million dollars worth of highprotein commodities for tefap for each of fiscal year 1989 and 1990. these commodities are essential to the continual effectiveness of soup kitchens and other congregate feeding centers. studies have shown that these programs are among the most successful in combating hunger. the bill also makes substantial improvements in our existing nutrition programs. title ii raises the basic food stamp benefit level. and provides an additional 3 cent reimbursement to schools for each school breakfast served. money put into this program is :.ioney well spent. as a study released in may has shown. in this study. children participating in the school breakfast program made greater gains on standardized tests than their peers who did  participate. madam president. there is excuse for allowing people in this country to go hungry. this bill is an important step in bringing better nutrition to a particularly vulnerable and growing segment of our populationchildren in poverty. i encourage my colleagues to support the pending legislation and thereby give these children at risk a good sound start on life.
. i am today introducing for appropriate reference a bill designed to help satisfy in part the immediate demands of our industrial and military establishments for highly trained and critically needed specialists. particularly in scientific fields. whose first preference petitions have been approved but whose skills can be utilized because under our antiquated immigration system their quota areas are oversubscribed. the first preference quota. which constitutes 50 percent of each areas quota. is allocated to immigrants who possess high education. technical training. specialized experience. or exceptional ability which is determined to be substantially beneficial prospectively to the national ecoy. cultural interest. or welfare of the united states and their immediate families. many applicants who have been certified as meeting these stringent requirements are etheless unavailable to our defense establishment because the quotas allocated to their areas of origin are so outmoded and unrealistic that it will take many years for their quota numbers to be reached. i am informed that as of ember 1. 1961. there were some 6.951 first preference applicants outside the united states and an additional 3.800 already here. all of whom have been approved as qualified first preference quota immigrants and all of whom are unavailable to us because their national quotas are vastly oversubscribed. this means that even those who have been admitted to the united states can fully use their skills since almost all such activity requires that they have at least permanent residence status. and. short of private bills. this status is dependent upon reaching the requisite quota number. the department of defense  has working here approximately 200 highly specialized scientists and engineers. most with postdoctoral training and experience. who can be used as effectively as possible because they can receive security clearances until they have attained permanent residence status. my office. like those of many of my colleagues. i am sure. receives a great number of requests of this nature. there are cases of heart surgeons who can perform operations because without permanent residence status they- can take state examinations. while the great need for physicians is voiced every day. typical is the case of a formosan obstetrical and gynecological pathologist who is being sought to do research and teach at one of the finest medical schools in the country. which happens to be in my state. members of the faculty there have written that there are  more than a dozen fully qualified men in this field in this country and that there is a great need for this mans services. it should be ed that in all cases of approved petitions. a prospective employer must certify his need for the applicant and the u.s. employment service must certify that there is one else available for the position. with numbers of applicants such as are involved here. the private bill technique is clearly inadequate. thus this bill is designed to relieve the immediate problem until it becomes acute again. this was done once before with firstpreference applicants in 1958. when 7.366 applicants and their families were granted quota immigrant status under public law 85700. which was introduced in the senate by then senator kennedy. last session the same relief was provided for second- and thirdpreference applicants by public law 87301. neither of these accomplished the general immigration revision which is so urgently needed to remedy the injustices of the present law and its failure to reflect our national policy. the logical method for dealing with immigration is a complete revision of our quota system. and i have introduced legislation to this end and urged this course countless times. even chairman walter of the house immigration subcommittee has recognized the inadequacy of the existing law by introducing legislation providing for a modest pooling of unused quota numbers. last september. when the conference report on public law 87301 was before this body. i argued that until the senate insists on broad revision and refuses to accede to piecemeal relief. we can expect hing better. my words were  heeded and partial relief was again accepted. i maintain that the senates insistence upon a broad approach is the proper method for general immigration reform. the problem here is one of national security and a multiplicity of private billshence i feel justified in the introduction of this measure. but the need for such a measure emphasizes again that congress must face up to its responsibility to completely revise our outmoded and unrealistic immigration quota system.
