. during my trip i made a pilgrimage to the thern israeli town of maalotthe recent scene of one of the most tragic and barbaric massacres in modern history. nineteen school children and a family of three were brutally murdered by arab terroristsjust about every child captured was killed or injured. it was an event that shocked the world. and an event that has left a deep scar of sorrow in the hearts and minds of the israeli people. during my stay in maalot. a town tucked in the hills of western galilee. i was quickly and tremendously impressed with the determination of the people to live in peace and freedom without threat of war or terrorism. that commitment was alive and vibrant. they spoke of it often and always with passion. maalot is a town populated by both jews and arabs. and the two communities are committed to the community of brotherhood and justice. the deputy mayor of maalot. mr. jamil nahas. who is an arab. made me his guest in his home and escorted me through maalot. mr. nahas displayed the positive attitude to which i just referred and is determined to make brotherhood between arab and jews a living reality. i want to make e of a personal aspect of my journey to maalot and i speak  as a u.s. senator. but as the son of an immigrant. my mother. whose maiden name was ida bendirsky (later littman). was born in the town of safed. she spent the first 16 years of her life there prior to emigrating to the united states. the significance of that is the fact that all of the children murdered in the small schoolroom in maalot were from my mothers home town of safed. so in that regard maalot has a special significance and a profound impact on me. it was a haunting occasion to visit that schoolroom which contained 90 children held hostage by the terrorists. the terrorists were heavily equipped with grecxx- 1501part 18 nades and satchels of explosives. and all of them were armed with automatic rifles. in retrospect it is a miracle any child survived that living nightmare in a room which was. in fact. a powder keg. from the school. i traveled to the gravesites of the cohen familya family of threemurdered in their apartment building prior to the occupation of the schoolhouse. in remarks at the gravesite. at which i placed three wreaths in the name of the people of the state of new york in a memorial ceremony. i spoke of my belief that the cohens were modernday freedom fighters. it is true. as i said then. they did  die in battle with enemy forces. however. they were murdered by forces who oppose peace and freedom and brotherhood because they dared to hold the line of freedom by living in israel. that memorial service was on july 4the day the american people were celebrating the 198th birthday of our nation. the deaths of the cohens and the deaths of the children from safed are directly related to the sacrifice of millions of americans who have died for the survival and security of basic human rights for america. and the world.  in the heat and dust of the galilean hills. the wreaths i placed at the graves are by  dried and withered. but our memory of the cohen family and of the schoolchildrenall inent victims of hatred and violencecan never wither. it is because those tragic victims will be remembered that the people of israel and free men and women everywhere will rededicate themselves to the pursuit of liberty for all mankind. my pilgrimage to maalot serves as a burning symbol to me of the emous courage of those martyred victims and the emous courage of the people of israel. it was an experience that fortifies me as a u.s. senator to continue to strive with all of my physical and political power for justice and peace for all men.
