the fact is that for all the stumblings. for all the times we skinned our knees in this process of trying to achieve an answer to a quality of educational opportunity. just look at this world out there today. just look at what it consists of. one is going to say that busing is  the answer or it is 100percent successful. i am sure. at times. maybe it should  have been used. the fact is. it was the justice system of this country that kept us going forward. many. many times it would have been a lot easier to sit down and say the job is finished. it is almost like our old colleague senator aiken who would say: "let us get out of vietnam. we won the war." it is much easier to say. i think we all agree. that the battle is won. it is  up to the individual. society has done everything it can for its miities. for those who are deprived. for those who do  have the opportunity. but that is  so. that is  reality. all the other problems begin with that matter of education. the senator ks that and i k that. so. it is  just a matter of some nicetohave situation that we wish we might be relieving ourselves. this is it. this is life. what very well might turn out  to be much of a life at all. it might take 2 years of waiting to see whether i am right or jesse helms is right. that is  the point. that means hing. what counts are the 2 years taken out of some human beings life. that is why this can just go through. that is why we have to act . i do  k a single thing that has been achieved in this nation that somehow the judicial process and the legal process also have  been mightily involved. we are all going to go ahead and disagree while that process unties the ks of our society. but we have to believe in ourselves and we have to believe in that legal system. how many times do you think we here on the floor of the u.s. senate have committed a gaff or done the wrong thing by the people we are supposed to represent. probably many times. but who has a hair shirt on about the u.s. senate. i do . or the house of representatives. or the various presidents. i think the record speaks for itself as to how this society has continually moved upward. is there some reason why. because of whatever mistakes we have. we should go ahead and eliminate the powers of the senate or reduce them. i do  think so. any process that is a human process is going to make mistakes and that means from the beginning right through the last scene of the last act which in our case is the judicial system. the supreme court. i suppose what was being spoken for here today is a system of government without parallel anywhere in the world today. or throughout the history of the world. i just suggest that maybe it is that we go a little slow regardless of our passions before we change that system. the constitution of the united states has served us all well. we have all done well by it. there is one who can say. despite what is stated today in this sort of macho society of ours about survival of the fittest. "i made it on my own." e of us did.  one of us. in some way the concepts and the principles that were put down on paper over 200 years ago have impacted on each one of our lives. some more than others. but it has impacted upon all of us. the senator from th carolina earlier indicated that i might have implied that i am closer to or advocate with greater fervor the constitution. that is  so. but legislatively i suppose where we differ is that i want him to achieve his successes within the rules as written. and i think he can easily do that. the votes being what they are here on the floor of the senate. and even if he is wrong great harm will have been done this republic or the future. i wish him hing but the best and that he be right. but even if wrong other generation has to suffer for our mistakes. the difficulty with changing the constitution is that then if an error has been made the nation will be a long time recovering from it. more importantly. once it is understood that that document is vulnerable it becomes worthless. it will become a receptacle for every hot potato that is put into this chamber. it will become a trash basket instead of a goal. it will be the way out instead of a dream. that is why you can change that. albeit you can change the laws to your hearts content. is there anybody with the slightest kledge of current affairs on the status of american politics who does  feel this legislation or this concept is going to come into being by the mal legislative process. by the mal administrative process. without com.ng at the constitution. do you really want instead of "congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion. or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. or abridging the freedom of speech. or of the press. or the right of the people peaceably to assemble. and to petition the government for a redress of grievances." something in there that addresses itself to abortion. really. from magnificence for all generations in all ages to our particular problem on this day in this year. "the right of the people to be secure in their persons. houses. papers. and effects. against unreasonable searches and seizures. shall  be violated. and warrants shall issue. but upon probable cause. supported by oath or affirmation. and particularly describing the place to be searched. and the persons or things to be seized." the great right of privacy. do you really want busing in there instead of that great language. is that what this is for. "person shall be held to answer for a capital. or otherwise infamous crime. unless on a presentment or indictment of grand jury. except in cases arising in the land or naval forces. or in the milltia. when in actual service in time of war or public danger.  shall any person be subject for the same offenses to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb. or shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself.  be deprived of life. liberty. or property. without due process of law.  shall private property be taken for public use. without just compensation." do you want a prayerinschool amendment rather than those words. is that what this is. every generation is going to have its problems. we have ours. more. less. but the rulesthat is importantthey can give way. it is ironic that a u.s. senator should be here arguing for the preservation of the powers of the executive branch of government. the judiciary does  have that capacity in any event to be out on this floor or to be in the white house. but certainly the executive branch is very much involved in what it is that is  going on. there are going to be those times when we are  so enlightened and the executive is or vice versa. and the question is how those matters turn out along with the two of us. and we have the umpire who takes into consideration  only whatever powers we have but whatever rights the american people have. i repeat.  paid the tribute customary on such occasions to our founding fathers: "a group so unique weve never seen their like since they rose to such selfless heights. tney gave us more than a nation." one of these founding fathers was thomas jefferson. who was prouder of having founded the taxsupported university of virginia than of anything else except having written the declaration of independence and the virginia statute of religious freedom. in the midst of a terrible civil war. july 2. 1862. the congress of the united states provided that the federal government give portions of the land it owned within the states to the states themselves for state universities. the morrill act is virtually the most important piece of legislation on behalf of american education ever passed. thirteen million acres of the public domain were given to the states. to imagine america today without the benefits of the great universities of california. michigan. minnesota. indiana. iowa. missouri. etc.. etc.. is impossible. to think that any private university. especially one founded by a clerical order. is more "independent" than a great state university. with its healthy pluralism of religious and religious inspirations. its concern for the public weal. its basis in the constitutional separation of church and state. is to recognize. among other signs. that the american mind in high places is going backward these days. the senate in its wisdom voted the other day to prohibit the victim of rape from being assisted by public funds in obtaining an abortion. a republican senator. lowell weicker. remonstrated with the leader of the move to prohibit assistance. jesse helms. by pointing out that his harshness was  only unconscionable but had sanction in our moral tradition. such a prohibition. said senator weicker. can hardly be said to come down to us from mount sinai. on the contrary. replied senator helms. it does come down from mount sinai. and if this smacks of cotton mather. so be it. the chairman of moral majority in 1111s. the rev. george a. zarris. encourages his members to monitor libraries. "i would think." he said. "moralminded people might object to books that are philosophically alien to what they believe. if they have the books and feel like burning them. fine." in abingdon. va.. the rev. tom williams. objecting to els by harold robbins. philip roth. sidney sheldon. insisted that on his sayso books be removed from the local library. he threatened to file charges against the librarian if mis were allowed to check out the books. the librarian pointed out that under virginia law the library did  have to show  of the roads -and bridges committee. certainly a position which gave a man emous power with the prospect of emous patronage *and all sorts of goodies coming to him.  gennaro frate.  one nickel.  one nickel ever crossed that mans hand because of his love for this nation and seeing what it had given to him in the way of his own business and to his son in terms of an education. the story of gennaro frate is repeated a hundred times over in the state of connecticut. do you honestly feel that the italians who came to the state of connecticut. without this system of courts. without this system of justice. without the commitment of leadership to the weakest in our societydo you honestly believe they would be. in one short generation. where they are today. it would  happen. the fact is it was never meant to be a numbers game in this country. if we only move after we count the house. we are  going to move. this document her#.. who wrote it. who wrote it. do you think some black wrote it. do you think some retarded child wrote it. do you think some elderly person wrote it. do you think some woman wrote it. do you think somebody without an education wrote it.  it was written by the most prosperous. the wealthiest. the most advantaged. the most powerful men in our society. and what was contained in here was directly contradictory to their own interests. that is who wrote it. it was directly contradictory to their interests. but they made sure that those principles were set down on paper. and because they did. and because they did  think of themselves. they did  count the house. each one of us is much the better for it. as is an entire nation.
