. i am a liberal. i am proud of the term. i never apologize for it. but i think this is aher example of the fact that liberalism does  mean mawkishness. muddleheadedness. or softening of the brain. liberalism does  mean that one does  understand the realities of competition. that one does  understand the realities of national selfishness. or that one is  determined to utilize the ecoic power available to correct a situation in the interests of the health of the total ecoy of the whole free world. we should utilize all the persuasive power at our command to induce the cooperation of our friends. to induce them to take steps toward the development of their own capital markets and to remove their restrictions on capital movements. but should persuasion  suffice. we should give serious consideration to taking proper steps. including the establishment of a capital issues committee in the new york market. to be composed of the new york federal reserve bank. the treasury. and key commercial banks and underwriters. which would be required to pass judgment on which proposed foreign capital issues would be consistent with our national interest. the swiss national bank. the central bank of the second largest world financial center. has traditionally exercised such reviewing huthority. as have several other key financial centers in the united kingdom. the netherlands. and france. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record with my remarks an editorial from the new york times of september 1 recommending exactly such a capital issues committee. . there being objection. the editorial was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: [from the new york times. sept. 1. 1964]
 to alter his stand on aid to new york city and to propose the bill  before us. together with this legislation. they constitute a complex financial package which has been negotiated with the participation of virtually all affected parties. it insures the provision of essential city services and the timely payment of city bills. small business need go into bankruptcy for want of being able to collect on debts owed it by new york city. person doing business with the city at the present time need fear the citys ability to pay on future orders. without the federal element contained in this bill. new york city faces certain default with terrible consequences for the city. state. and. i believe. the nation. if a default does occur it would have a devastating effect on new york city. essential services would be disrupted in the chaos of default. vendors and contractors would most likely  provide goods and services except for cash. with almost onehalf of the new york city budget being composed of welfare. pensions. and debt service it would mean large cuts in services and employmentor further severe increases in taxes. this would be a cruel dilemma for the city. since decreased services could lead to violence and increased taxes on top of the new taxes just voted. would drive business and the middle class out of new york city. the city would also have to cope with problems such as assuring ongoing vendor credit for food and other essential supplies. for hospitals. prisons. and so forth. securing interim financing to cover immediate operating shortfalls. assuring citizens of adequate protective and other essential services. and attempting to set some priorities for services and activities based on an uncertain revenue stream because of our almost certain falloff in taxpayments. a bankruptcy law would also  solve many of the problems since there would be innumerable legal hurdles in just getting a judge to issue trustees certificates to provide operating money for essential services for the city. there is grave doubt in the financial community whether trustees certificates even issuedin a new york bankruptcy would be marketable to any extent. our experience with the penn central bankruptcy shows that these trustee certificates would find little or market acceptance. the bankruptcy judge would also have the difficult task of approving a plan to run the city and which would be subject to endless challengers who would object to using money for any other purpose than paying off debt. in addition. certain provisions of the new york constitution would make it very difficult to devise an arrangement with creditors that would stand up under challenge. in short even under a bankruptcy statute a default would be a legal nightmare which the lawyers see as many years to resolve. finally. a legal default or bankruptcy would deny the city access to the markets under the laws of 30 states. including most of the large commercial states. from periods of 5 to 25 years. this could lead to a perpetuation of the citys problem for at least 10 years and completely destroy new york city as the major city of the world it is still today. a default by new york city would also have vast repercussions for new york state and the nation. new york state moral obligation agencies such as the housing finance agency. the dormitory authority. and others face financial problems themselves and would almost certainly be forced to default if the city defaults. and. new york state itself has stretched its resources to such an extent to save the city that it can borrow in the market. by next june the state will need several billion to make good its own obligations to provide school and other aid to local governments. and would quite likely be driven into default if the city has suffered a legal default. finally. if there is a legal default by new york city followed by the state agencies and the state itself the national effects would be catastrophic. there has been much testimony before the banking committees of both houses on the effects of a new york city legal default on the bond marketand on the ability of state and local governments to enter that marketon the nations banks and on the u.s. ecoy. some. such as secretary simon and dr. arthur burns. feel the effect on the bond market and on the banks will be bearable and that there will be major adverse effect on the national ecoy. but even they say they can be sure. and. both favor the pending bill. other prominent bankers and ecoists have testified that there would be seriously adverse effects on all of the bond markets and. on the u.s. ecoy. and all agreed that the psychological effect of a default on investors and business executives could  be measured. and this gave even secretary simon and dr. burns great cause for concern. it is a fact that some municipalities and states with reasonably good bond ratings have  been able to market their bonds except at materially higher interest rates and that others with slightly lower ratings have been foreclosed from the market entirely. some states with the highest ratings have marketed their obligations at reasonable rates. but since the start of the new york city crisis these have been very few indeed and of the highest rating. it is also a fact. based on surveys by the federal reserve board. the comptroller of the currency. and the federal deposit insurance corporation that 546 banks in 45 states hold obligations of new york city. new york state. and state agencies. of that total 367 banks have 20 to 50 percent of their capital invested in new york obligations. and aher 179 banks have over 50 percent of their capital invested in new york obligations. thus it is likely that there will be serious adverse effects on at least some of the banks if there is an acrosstheboard default in new york. finally. the impact on the general ecoy could be very serious as the still sluggish recovery is going on. first. outofstate firms doing almost $2 billion worth of business with new york city would be immediately affected by default. those firms are located in over 20 states across the country. and the impact would be widespread. then there is the psychological effect of a default on a city of 8 million peopleand of a state with 18 million peopletogether with increased unemployment. lowered federal tax payments and generally depressed business activities in new york city. the financial. cultural. and communications center of the country. this could lead to very serious repercussions nationwide which are at best very uncertain and at worst catastrophic. it would be folly to run such risks if they couldas they canbe avoided by federal action . thus we are being asked to vote today on a plan which has all the advantages and e of the disadvantages of an actual default. in so doing. we are being asked to aid a city which has bitten the bullet and which faces a mediumterm future of halted dapital projects. frozen civil service wages. sharply reduced essential services particularly in health and education. and a tax system which can only speed the departure of tax paying citizens and businesses to the suburbs or out of state. we are also being asked to vote for a federal loan which is fully collateralized. because of the secretarys authority under this bill to withhold federal aid payments if the loan is  repaid. this federal aid coming to new york city. according to state emergency financial control board approved figures. will amount to approximately $2.522.000.000 during the current fiscal yearthis figure includes public assistance payments of $528 million. medicare payments of $126 million. medicaid assistance amounting to $834 million. a revenue sharing entitlement of $263 million. and other miscellaneous grants in aid of approximately $770 million. as you can see. the amount of aid exceeds the maximum loan authority by $222 million. and is fully under the control of the treasury. the agency which writes the checks. i ask my colleagues how many bank loans are as fully secured as this one. there can be doubt. therefore. that the bill must be passed. but. i must warn my colleagues of one danger which must be avoided at all costs. and that is the danger of thinking we have dispensed with our obligation to the nations cities by voting for the rescue package of new york. in fact. our job of developing policies to deal with our major cities is just beginning. with the help of this legislation. for example. new york will just barely scrape through the next three years. in the meantime. all the forces which have brought it to the point it is in  will continue to plague all metropolitan areas. and many of these adverse forces have been set in motion by federal policy. in fact. we have an urban policy which almost guarantees the deterioration of many of our older cities. our "urban policy" in transportation. for example. is a policy of superhighways which has encouraged the flight to the suburbs. our urban policy in health is negativethe absence of the national health systemthus requiring cities like new york to spend millions for health care servicesin addition to federal aidto the poor who live there. our u.s. urban policy on welfare is a policy which gives mississippi 85 percent of federal participation while requiring new york state to shell out at the rate of 50 percent. the state in turn gives half of that burdenabout $1 billionto new york city. i could name many other instances where federal policy and legislation simply cry out for improvement. in order to help those areas of the country where between 70 percent and 80 percent of americans  live. i hope. therefore. that the new york city crisis and the legislation at hand will spur the congress to develop a new urban policy to reverse the decline of our nations major cities. at a minimum. this policy should recognize the benefits which cities bring to the nation at large and give back to them that fair share of federal aid which is their due. it should recognize the realities of city government and thus encourage forms of regional cooperation for attacking those metropolitan problems which are clearly regional in. scope. it should recognize that cities are a base of culture. of learning and. therefore. of high human fulfillment. as such. the purpose of an urban policy should be to attract a viable tax base into the center city areas and  to speed the flight to the suburbs. of course. this has implications for virtually every aspect of domestic government policy: housing. education. welfare. transportation. et cetera. this is why i believe our job is just beginning. if we make some progress in this regard during the next 10 years we might be able to say that the legislation we passed began an exercise of congressional statemanship of the highest order. if we can. we can only say that while we have allowed new york city to breathe through the next 3 years we have  taken the lesson from this near catastrophe. finally we must recognize that new york city is  some foreign place occupied by some alien people. new york has been and remains the first city of america. the place where many new americans first touched our shores. the financial. cultural and communications center of the country. it would be to our everlasting shame if we. allowed this great resource to go down the iginious road of default or bankruptcy which would result in the destruction of its central functions. our country and the world would be a much poorer place f or it.
