. i am deeply convinced that what is being done by the government does  have the vigor and the initiative which i think is called for by the spirit of the senate resolution adopted on this subject in july 1956 protesting against the very kind of discrimination against and boycotting of americans because of their faith. or of american companies because they have jews in their management or boards of directors. or because a jew owns a ship which seeks to enter an arab port. the united states fought wars in bygone days for causes lesser than this. certainly one wants us to fight a war on this account. but vigorous diplomatic action. i think. is called for. and i hope very much that the state department will take it.
i may say to our colleague from south carolina that there are only a very few yards in the country able to build a ship of this size and character. indeed. and my information is there are only two. but if charleston is one of them. then god bless the charleston yard for its capabilities. however. i respectfully submit that in the brooklyn navy yard we have the skilled workers. we have the space. and we have the experience needed. it is derogation of any other yard if we put in our bid most strongly.
. without in any way passing on the political aspects. the fact that there has been a very terrible problem with leba being abused by the palestine liberation organization and other terrorist elements as a base for terror  only on israel but on many other nations in the world  part of the conflict at all. wreaking their terrible vengeance upon people who have relation whatever to the issue. i still would like to state my own profound sympathy with the people of leba. for generations leba was a place in which a highly evenly divided population between christians and moslems lived in tranquility. my mothers family well over 100 years ago entered into palestine through bierut. from the port of odessa. in what is  the soviet union. my mother was actually born in the town of safad. through which many of these pilgrims passed in those days. it is really tragic that this small country. which has for so long managed to maintain some kind of a balance between these populations. with many. many difficulties. has  been rent asunder. there are many deeply religious people in this whole area. and i really hope that even if their consciences somehow or other are immune to the tragedy which has been imposed in the constant war respecting israel. their consciences will respond to the fratricide among their own brethren. i express my deepest sympathy to the people of leba. and to the mothers who have lost sons. children. and kinfolk in this terrible fighting. and who suffer just as much and are just as deeply grieved as mothers in israel or mothers in the arab countries who have seen their sons subjected to such wars. perhaps the sheer intensity and tragedy of the conflict will bring people to their senses
