if the gentleman will just let me finish my thought and then i will ask him a question. i might say to the gentleman that he has said in this report. and i think sincerely. and i think he will demonstrate it in a minute when i ask him a question. that the voice of america has received the support of this committee since its inception. i k that to be true and i k the gentleman to be sincere about it. there are three means by which we are trying to defeat communism in the world. one is military. unfortunate. sad. costly. and extremely difficult. the other is ecoic. which is just as necessary. although some here disagree with me. and the third is ideological. that is what the voice of america is for. it is possible to produce evidence to the effect that the voice of america dces  get through the iron curtain adequately. that it is jammed. also that there are relatively few sets in the soviet union. poland. czechoslovakia. hungary. rumania. china. and so on. that is true. .but the voice of america is also doing a tremendous job where there is freedom of speech and where there are radio sets. that applies to something in the area of over a billion people in the world. let us never forget that we do  want to bare the breasts of 150.000.000 americans standing alone. without allies. to attack by the russians and their satellites. 800.co0.000 strong. we want allies that will act to prevent attack and to help meet it if it comes. the voice of america and its programs represent an effort to convince our allies. too. as i :mderstand it. the reason the committee has turned down this $89.000.000 request is  because they do  agree with the voice of america program.  because they are  back of it or want to cripple it. but because what was presented to justify this appropriation was halfbaked. the committee has said so in the report. they say. and i would like to read that: the committee hopes that the department will exert every effort to complete these projects at the earliest possible date. take the necessary steps to overcome the weaknesses set forth in this report. and return to the congress as soon as possible with a more intelligent and better planned progam. that implies that if they do the committee will be sympathetic with their request for money to implement their program. i ask the chairman whether i have read the views of a majority of the committee correctly in this report.
