. the meatallocation bill offered by senator flanders and me has been termed "mischievous" on the floor here. for two reasons: first. because it is claimed that per capita meat supply this year will be above average consumption in recent years before 1947. and. second. because even discussion of the problem it is said may encourage hoarding. the figures given on consumption do  prove anything about demand. because people consume only what is available. but it is demand that makes prices go up and demand is estimated at about 165 pounds per capita in 1948 against admitted supply of only 146 pounds. the answer is that beef and veal prices were 18 percent higher in ember 1947 than in i have desire to engage in characterizations. but assume we are all here to serve the public interest sincerely and according to our lights. we do face a dilemma in antiinflation measures. for congress has passed a bill placing its faith in voluntary agreements. but the agency to obtain these is the executive. who says he needs rationing and price control powers over all costofliving items to do the job. our bill proposes a compromise. it enables congress to name what it wants rationed and to pass on the rationing plan before it becomes effective and it avoids price control. but it does try to tailor demand to supply. equal distribution of what is available is authoritatively given much credit for the success of british wartime food rationing. if there is a better plan advanced to help the city dweller with admittedly runaway prices. and perhaps also the meat producers to avoid the consequences of an inevitable crash. or if voluntary controls can really be implemented to accomplish these objectives seasonably. i. and i believe senator flanders. will certainly be pleased. though discussion is objected to. i believe that discussion may have done some real good already. in any case. i was taught in the hard school of earning a living to believe that the customer was generally rightat least he was worth listening to. i am speaking for constituents who are customers. prices on retail items generally have increased from an index numberbureau of labor statisticsof 119 in 1940 to 165 in 1947. but food prices have increased from an index number of 97 in 1940 to 203 in 1947. i can assure my colleagues that for millions of middleincome families like those in my district there are deep freezers and that a few days. supply of meat will crowd the refrigerator so that the housewife can hardly get it shut. there is danger of the average american family hoarding perishable meat. there is danger that we may price ourselves out of prosperity.
