 and various administration officials to protectionist trade legislation the department has based its position on its concern for the integrity of the international coffee agreement. it argues that brazils exports of instant coffee will lead to destructive price competition which will undermine the agreement. it also contends that as a matter of principle. brazil must permit all the participants in the international coffee agreement equal access to the grade of coffee beans used by brazils instant coffee industry. although these arguments might have merit as abstract propositions. they are  altogether convincing when we look at the actual facts. first. the threatened price war has  occurred. in my conferences with state department officials. they have ackledged that despite brazils instant coffee sales. prices of both green. coffee and instant coffee have remained stable. the apparent reason is that brazils instant coffee prices are comparable to those for instant coffee made from african robusta beans. its principal. competition. and with instant coffee imports from other countries. second. the merit of the equal access argument is greatly impaired by the failure of the state department to seek to apply this principle as well to the consuming members of the international coffee agreement. the common market countries. for example.  give preferential treatment to coffee imports from african countries at the expense of brazil and other latin american producers. can we justify a onesided approach to this issue which would compel the producing countries to grant equal access to their raw materials but do hing to assure equal access for their products in the markets of the consuming countries. it is most unfortunate that the united states has become brazils chief antagonist on this issue in the conferences  being held on the extension of the international coffee agreement. cooperation between brazil and the united states was largely responsible for the initial agreement and is essential for its continued success. the position of the united states. however. has caused suspicion in brazil that the state department is pursuing a protectionist policy. this may make it virtually impossible for us to play any conciliatory role in resolving disputes which might exist -between brazil and its african competitors. the department has ackledged that its position has led to intensified antiunited states sentiments in brazil. although it issued awesome warnings of trade retaliation by exporting countries if congress tampers with the gatt agreement. the department seems to have iged brazilian concern with the comment that "the problem is a rather complicated one whose implications are  widely understood in brazil." there are other serious inconsistencies in the departments position. for example. it has long been an important part of u.s. foreign policy to encourage underdeveloped countries to diversify and industrialize. this policy was recently strongly reaffirmed at punta del este. one may well ask what could be more natural in keeping with these objectives than for brazil to process some of its major agricultural product into instant coffee. it also appears that there is a lack of clarity within the department on the "implications" of the problem. aid has given a substantial financial boost to several of the brazilian companies which process instant coffee. department spokesmen agree that brazils exports of instant coffee do  violate the international coffee agreement. the agreement does  require a country to impose an export tax on processed coffee. neither brazil  the united states impose such taxes on processed commodities or other manufactured products. and if the united states did press for such a tax. it should be recognized that it could well result in higher prices to u.s. consumers. there is. as far as i k. hing in the international coffee agreement which requires brazil to put on the market any grade of green coffee that it did  export before the agreement. in view of our own agricultural policies. are we in a position to insist that any other country must sell its commodities in an open market without. restrictions. moreover. it is of questionable logic for the department to argue that the coffee price structure which is maintained because of the international coffee agreement would be destroyed by price competition to meet the relatively high cost of brazilian instant coffee and at the same time urge brazil to put on the international market a grade of green coffee which sells at a significantly lower price than the grades of green coffee which are traditionally exported from both brazil and africa. the international coffee agreement contains an express reference to instant coffee and provides a mechanism for dealing with its export. under its terms. every pound of instant coffee must be accounted for in exactly the same way as is green coffee and its export is chargeable against every producing countrys quota at three times the rate of its green coffee exports. the department has conceded that brazils instant coffee exports have complied with these provisions. could it  be inferred that the present difficulty has arisen from the approach which has been taken by the state department. in view of the importance of this subject to the future of the international coffee agreement and its relationship to the current controversy over foreign trade legislation. i have asked secretary rusk to review the state departments position. i hope it is  too late for the united states to play a constructive role in resolving any legitimate issues which may exist.
. 55 years ago today congress passed the smoothawley tariff act which. without question. led to the great depression. today. many years later. we face a crisis in our trading sectors of equal proportions. america is being flooded with bargain imports and its traditional exportsmachinery. chemicals. electronics. grainhave lost their competitive edge. the main culprit in all this is the 30percent increase in the exchange value of the dollar since 1981. appreciations in the dollar on foreign exchange markets effectively subsidize u.s. imports and tax exports. this all poses damaging consequences for the long term health of our exportoriented industries. matter where we place the blame for our current trade ills. the problem is that protectionism has once again reared its ugly head.  just in developing countries and japan. but among workers and communities most hurt by lowpriced. high quality imports. in corporate board rooms where managers are confused and frustrated by lost market share and lower profit margins. and ably in the u.s. congress where trade threatens to become this congress most divisive political issue. it would be a fatal mistake to allow these protectionist interests to completely capture our trade agenda. we can allow a return to the kind of environment that permitted the enactment of the smoothawley tariff act. we must explore alternatives to our trade problems and pursue new approaches to trade policy. there is room in that policy for protectionism. as a recent new york times article urges. i ask that this article. entitled "americas retreat from protectionism." be printed in the record at this point as a poignant reminder of the ecoic downfall which followed the closing of our markets in 1930.
. the articles which follow are right on target in their criticism of our present sugar policy. i ask that they be printed in the record at this point. the articles follow: [from the new york times. aug. 25. 1985] sucans sure danger: price its summertime and the slurping is heavy: americans are consuming more sweeteners in everything from wine coolers to graa bars. experts disagree on whether sugar and sugar substitutes pose a serious health.risk. but there is doubt that protecting a few thousand domestic sugar producers in the united states and europe costs the consumer. and is bringing ruin to our friends in the third world. common sense and common decency argue for serious reforms. sugar is natures most concentrated source of carbohydrates and cane is the worlds most efficient source of sugar. it needs a warm. wet climate and plenty of labor to cultivate. ideally. all the worlds demand would be met by relatively poor. tropical countries like brazil. guatemala and the philippines. the revenue generated from its export would increase demand for goods from consuming nations. processing the raw cane would. as the british historian sidney mintz points out. offer muchneeded training in lowtech manufacturing and business organization skills. unfortunately. cane can be grownat higher costin florida. louisiana and hawaii. and sugar can be also extracted from sugar beets or. synthesized from corn. both of which can be grown in temperate climates. once these methods gained an ecoic toehold in the developed world. their managers used their political muscle to limit competition from lowercost sources. thirdworld sugar  sells for about 4 cents a pound. the united states imposes import quotas and tariffs to keep the domestic price at 22 cents a pound. thats so much of a difference that customs officials have been excluding sweetened foods ranging from jam to kosher pizza on the theory that people could profitably extract and sell the sugar. the common market pays about the same price to beet farmers. they respond by producing so much sugar that europe-  exports it. the result is a triple whammy: consumers and taxpayers in america and europe end up paying an extra $3 billion to $4 billion for sweeteners. with demand for thirdworld sugar artificially depressed by protectionism. the freemarket price has fallen to a third of the production cost for efficient latin america growers. brazil. desperate to unload the crop. is converting much of it into alcohol. for export as an octane booster in gasoline. even that market may soon close. as american distillers fight to keep out the competition. low sugar prices mean low export earnings for sugarproducing countries. that makes it almost impossible for debtors like the philippines to repay their loans to american and european banks. and it squeezes living standards. inviting perilous political effects. the end of this madness is  in sight: the domestic sugar lobbies carry too much weight to be pushed off welfare. but at least there are  reforms in the wind worth rooting for. the common markets sugar subsidies are up for review this year in brussels. there is hope that europe will take steps to reduce production. if only to reduce the general pressure on the common market budget for agricultural subsidies. on this side of the atlantic. senators slade gorton of washington and bill bradley of new jersey are sponsoring legislation that would trim a few cents from the domestic support price. these are small steps. consumers in rich countries and sugar producers in poor ones deserve much more. but as long as policies in europe and america are tailored to protect special interests. small steps are probably the best we can expect. (from the wall street journal. sept. 17. 1985]
 adequate authority to seek the elimination of foreign anticompetitive practices which prevent market access for u.s. exports. on ember 20 i introduced s. 1862. measures to eliminate barriers to and distortions of trade. to address this very concern. this bill would amend section 301 of the trade act of 1974 to define unreasonable practices in that statute to include anticompetitive practices which serve as barriers to our competitive exports. tariff barriers in the form of enforcement of antimooly laws are the reason some u.s. exports have long had difficulty penetrating the japanese market. this has been .true for u.s. exports of textiles and apparel. steel. semiconductors. soda ash and doubt countless others. the case of soda ash. the basic raw material for glass. is illustrative. in 1983 the japan fair trade commission. at the urging of the u.s. government. found that their domestic soda ash producers had clearly violated their own mooly laws. the major japanese trading companies maintain an intricate link between producers and distributors. many japanese marketing companies refuse to represent u.s. suppliers. punishment. damages or other measures have been taken to enforce the findings of. the japan ftc. i the japanese system of marketing. which gives the trading companies power in selling finished products and buying raw materials. places the u.s. soda ash industry in an impossible position unless japans antimooly laws are enforced. this occurs despite the competitiveness of our industry. we have the largest reserves. the lowest costs. the worlds most efficient production methods using half the energy. half the manpower required by plants elsewhere in. the world and stateoftheart techogy. anticompetitive practices have also served as a barrier to access for the u.s. semiconductor industry in japan. japanese semiconductor firmsessentially a cartelhave a long history of acting collectively to block foreign penetration. the japanese government targeted and formally protected its semiconductor industry in the 1960s and 1970s. in order for the industry to achieve techogical parity with the united states. after heavy pressure from the u.s. government. the japanese government agreed in the 1970s to liberalize semiconductor and computer imports and investment. at the same time. however. that this socalled liberalization was taking place. the japanese government encouraged the industry to form collusive interfirm relationships for the research. development. production. and sale of semiconductors and computers. essentially - to nullify the practical effect of liberalization. this restrictive market structure remains in place today and continues to restrict u.s. semiconductor sales in japan. u.s. market share in japan -is about the same today as it was when the industry there was formally protected. the situation has been similar for the steel and textile industries for years. despite market liberalization in the 1960s. trading companies refused to handle imports from the united states. korea. taiwan. and other countries because of the pressure they received from japanese steel and textile manufacturers. as a result. developingcountry producers like taiwan. korea. and hong kong. which have natural markets in japan for their steel. textile. and apparel production. have always had to concentrate their marketing efforts on the united states. resulting in the tremendous import penetration and job loss complained of by our domestic industries today. the legislation i introduced is designed to deal with these practices when we discover them. prevent irreparable damage to american industry. and ensure us market access. the bill requires the u.s. trade representative to take actioneither negotiation of a settlement with the offending government or retaliationin response to a finding of burdensome anticompetitive practices. as a nation we must respond swiftly to these types of tariff barriers which prevent our products access to lucrative markets. this legislation would accomplish that goal. in recent testimony before the finance committee on the distinction between fair and unfair trade. prof. harry first of new york university law school discussed anticompetitive practices as unfair trade practices. aher recent article in the journal of comnierce discusses the way in which japan uses cartels to protect weak industries from stronger foreign competition. i ask that this testimony and the article be printed in the record.
. 55 years ago today congress passed the smoothawley tariff act which. without question. led to the great depression. today. many years later. we face a crisis in our trading sectors of equal proportions. america is being flooded with bargain imports and its traditional exportsmachinery. chemicals. electronics. grainhave lost their competitive edge. the main culprit in all this is the 30percent increase in the exchange value of the dollar since 1981. appreciations in the dollar on foreign exchange markets effectively subsidize u.s. imports and tax exports. this all poses damaging consequences for the long term health of our exportoriented industries. matter where we place the blame for our current trade ills. the problem is that protectionism has once again reared its ugly head.  just in developing countries and japan. but among workers and communities most hurt by lowpriced. high quality imports. in corporate board rooms where managers are confused and frustrated by lost market share and lower profit margins. and ably in the u.s. congress where trade threatens to become this congress most divisive political issue. it would be a fatal mistake to allow these protectionist interests to completely capture our trade agenda. we can allow a return to the kind of environment that permitted the enactment of the smoothawley tariff act. we must explore alternatives to our trade problems and pursue new approaches to trade policy. there is room in that policy for protectionism. as a recent new york times article urges. i ask that this article. entitled "americas retreat from protectionism." be printed in the record at this point as a poignant reminder of the ecoic downfall which followed the closing of our markets in 1930.
. the articles which follow are right on target in their criticism of our present sugar policy. i ask that they be printed in the record at this point. the articles follow: [from the new york times. aug. 25. 1985] sucans sure danger: price its summertime and the slurping is heavy: americans are consuming more sweeteners in everything from wine coolers to graa bars. experts disagree on whether sugar and sugar substitutes pose a serious health.risk. but there is doubt that protecting a few thousand domestic sugar producers in the united states and europe costs the consumer. and is bringing ruin to our friends in the third world. common sense and common decency argue for serious reforms. sugar is natures most concentrated source of carbohydrates and cane is the worlds most efficient source of sugar. it needs a warm. wet climate and plenty of labor to cultivate. ideally. all the worlds demand would be met by relatively poor. tropical countries like brazil. guatemala and the philippines. the revenue generated from its export would increase demand for goods from consuming nations. processing the raw cane would. as the british historian sidney mintz points out. offer muchneeded training in lowtech manufacturing and business organization skills. unfortunately. cane can be grownat higher costin florida. louisiana and hawaii. and sugar can be also extracted from sugar beets or. synthesized from corn. both of which can be grown in temperate climates. once these methods gained an ecoic toehold in the developed world. their managers used their political muscle to limit competition from lowercost sources. thirdworld sugar  sells for about 4 cents a pound. the united states imposes import quotas and tariffs to keep the domestic price at 22 cents a pound. thats so much of a difference that customs officials have been excluding sweetened foods ranging from jam to kosher pizza on the theory that people could profitably extract and sell the sugar. the common market pays about the same price to beet farmers. they respond by producing so much sugar that europe-  exports it. the result is a triple whammy: consumers and taxpayers in america and europe end up paying an extra $3 billion to $4 billion for sweeteners. with demand for thirdworld sugar artificially depressed by protectionism. the freemarket price has fallen to a third of the production cost for efficient latin america growers. brazil. desperate to unload the crop. is converting much of it into alcohol. for export as an octane booster in gasoline. even that market may soon close. as american distillers fight to keep out the competition. low sugar prices mean low export earnings for sugarproducing countries. that makes it almost impossible for debtors like the philippines to repay their loans to american and european banks. and it squeezes living standards. inviting perilous political effects. the end of this madness is  in sight: the domestic sugar lobbies carry too much weight to be pushed off welfare. but at least there are  reforms in the wind worth rooting for. the common markets sugar subsidies are up for review this year in brussels. there is hope that europe will take steps to reduce production. if only to reduce the general pressure on the common market budget for agricultural subsidies. on this side of the atlantic. senators slade gorton of washington and bill bradley of new jersey are sponsoring legislation that would trim a few cents from the domestic support price. these are small steps. consumers in rich countries and sugar producers in poor ones deserve much more. but as long as policies in europe and america are tailored to protect special interests. small steps are probably the best we can expect. (from the wall street journal. sept. 17. 1985]
 adequate authority to seek the elimination of foreign anticompetitive practices which prevent market access for u.s. exports. on ember 20 i introduced s. 1862. measures to eliminate barriers to and distortions of trade. to address this very concern. this bill would amend section 301 of the trade act of 1974 to define unreasonable practices in that statute to include anticompetitive practices which serve as barriers to our competitive exports. tariff barriers in the form of enforcement of antimooly laws are the reason some u.s. exports have long had difficulty penetrating the japanese market. this has been .true for u.s. exports of textiles and apparel. steel. semiconductors. soda ash and doubt countless others. the case of soda ash. the basic raw material for glass. is illustrative. in 1983 the japan fair trade commission. at the urging of the u.s. government. found that their domestic soda ash producers had clearly violated their own mooly laws. the major japanese trading companies maintain an intricate link between producers and distributors. many japanese marketing companies refuse to represent u.s. suppliers. punishment. damages or other measures have been taken to enforce the findings of. the japan ftc. i the japanese system of marketing. which gives the trading companies power in selling finished products and buying raw materials. places the u.s. soda ash industry in an impossible position unless japans antimooly laws are enforced. this occurs despite the competitiveness of our industry. we have the largest reserves. the lowest costs. the worlds most efficient production methods using half the energy. half the manpower required by plants elsewhere in. the world and stateoftheart techogy. anticompetitive practices have also served as a barrier to access for the u.s. semiconductor industry in japan. japanese semiconductor firmsessentially a cartelhave a long history of acting collectively to block foreign penetration. the japanese government targeted and formally protected its semiconductor industry in the 1960s and 1970s. in order for the industry to achieve techogical parity with the united states. after heavy pressure from the u.s. government. the japanese government agreed in the 1970s to liberalize semiconductor and computer imports and investment. at the same time. however. that this socalled liberalization was taking place. the japanese government encouraged the industry to form collusive interfirm relationships for the research. development. production. and sale of semiconductors and computers. essentially - to nullify the practical effect of liberalization. this restrictive market structure remains in place today and continues to restrict u.s. semiconductor sales in japan. u.s. market share in japan -is about the same today as it was when the industry there was formally protected. the situation has been similar for the steel and textile industries for years. despite market liberalization in the 1960s. trading companies refused to handle imports from the united states. korea. taiwan. and other countries because of the pressure they received from japanese steel and textile manufacturers. as a result. developingcountry producers like taiwan. korea. and hong kong. which have natural markets in japan for their steel. textile. and apparel production. have always had to concentrate their marketing efforts on the united states. resulting in the tremendous import penetration and job loss complained of by our domestic industries today. the legislation i introduced is designed to deal with these practices when we discover them. prevent irreparable damage to american industry. and ensure us market access. the bill requires the u.s. trade representative to take actioneither negotiation of a settlement with the offending government or retaliationin response to a finding of burdensome anticompetitive practices. as a nation we must respond swiftly to these types of tariff barriers which prevent our products access to lucrative markets. this legislation would accomplish that goal. in recent testimony before the finance committee on the distinction between fair and unfair trade. prof. harry first of new york university law school discussed anticompetitive practices as unfair trade practices. aher recent article in the journal of comnierce discusses the way in which japan uses cartels to protect weak industries from stronger foreign competition. i ask that this testimony and the article be printed in the record.
thank you. . there is more to the peanut program than simply the quota system. the peanut program has a high support price. in fact. it is interesting to e that while support prices for the major program crops have declined in the past 5 years. the peanut support price has increased 13 percent over that same period of 5 years. this price support program has two tiers: peanuts for domestic production are kept at high prices. and peanuts for export are sold at market prices.
i thank the senator. what i propose to do is give more sbdcs the tools they need to encourage small companies to start exporting. as the senator ks. the sbdcs are doing a terrific job helping small business owners devise business plans. marketing strategies. and so forth. but many of them simply dont have the capacity to offer advice on how to export. we ought to try to change that. in my view. exporting is the name of the game today--even for small businesses. and one way to do that would be to broaden access to a successful small business export promotion program called the international trade data network. or itdn. . what is the itdn. the itdn is a computerbased service that small business owners can use to retrieve a stunning amount of international trade data--compiled both from federal government sources and the private sector. with a few quick keystrokes. individuals can read about everything from market demographics to descriptions of upcoming trade missions to explanations of relevant export and import regulations to potential contract leads. small businesses anxious to export can learn about virtually every industry and virtually every country. the itdn was developed in 1988 by the export assistance center at bryant college in smithfield. ri. and its been a big help to literally hundreds of rhode islands small businesses. in fact. 18 companies in rhode island use the itdn every single day. listen to some of these endorsements from rhode island business owners. one said. "the information made available through the itdn is an integral part of our preentry level market analysis." aher reported. "i find the itdn to be a stateoftheart. user friendly software that is a onestop shop for international information. it is a vital tool for businesses today that need to survive in a global environment." but right . only 30 or so of our 960 small business development centers have direct access to the itdn. so what id like to do is expand the program. so that sbdcs all across the country are connected to it. specifically what i have in mind is converting the itdn to an internetbased website. and establishing an interactive video trade conferencing center at each states lead small business assistance office. my proposal would also make the itdn techogy available to the approximately 2.500 sbdc subcenters across the country. as i understand the situation. sbdcs are already authorized to conduct export promotion activities under section 21 of the small business act. in fact. representatives of bryant college met with the sbas associate administrator for the sbdc program earlier this year to discuss this proposal. and received a very positive response. for one reason or aher. however. the sba has been reluctant to dedicate any money to this purpose. the 1988 commerce. justice. state appropriation bill contains $75.8 million for the sbdc program. an increase of some $2.3 million over the 1997 funding level. in talking with the folks at the export assistance center at bryant college. its my understanding that expanding the itdn could be done over 2 years. with a first year cost of about $925.000. id ask the distinguished manager if i could get his endorsement of my proposal.
i thank the senator. what i propose to do is give more sbdcs the tools they need to encourage small companies to start exporting. as the senator ks. the sbdcs are doing a terrific job helping small business owners devise business plans. marketing strategies. and so forth. but many of them simply dont have the capacity to offer advice on how to export. we ought to try to change that. in my view. exporting is the name of the game today--even for small businesses. and one way to do that would be to broaden access to a successful small business export promotion program called the international trade data network. or itdn. . what is the itdn. the itdn is a computerbased service that small business owners can use to retrieve a stunning amount of international trade data--compiled both from federal government sources and the private sector. with a few quick keystrokes. individuals can read about everything from market demographics to descriptions of upcoming trade missions to explanations of relevant export and import regulations to potential contract leads. small businesses anxious to export can learn about virtually every industry and virtually every country. the itdn was developed in 1988 by the export assistance center at bryant college in smithfield. ri. and its been a big help to literally hundreds of rhode islands small businesses. in fact. 18 companies in rhode island use the itdn every single day. listen to some of these endorsements from rhode island business owners. one said. "the information made available through the itdn is an integral part of our preentry level market analysis." aher reported. "i find the itdn to be a stateoftheart. user friendly software that is a onestop shop for international information. it is a vital tool for businesses today that need to survive in a global environment." but right . only 30 or so of our 960 small business development centers have direct access to the itdn. so what id like to do is expand the program. so that sbdcs all across the country are connected to it. specifically what i have in mind is converting the itdn to an internetbased website. and establishing an interactive video trade conferencing center at each states lead small business assistance office. my proposal would also make the itdn techogy available to the approximately 2.500 sbdc subcenters across the country. as i understand the situation. sbdcs are already authorized to conduct export promotion activities under section 21 of the small business act. in fact. representatives of bryant college met with the sbas associate administrator for the sbdc program earlier this year to discuss this proposal. and received a very positive response. for one reason or aher. however. the sba has been reluctant to dedicate any money to this purpose. the 1988 commerce. justice. state appropriation bill contains $75.8 million for the sbdc program. an increase of some $2.3 million over the 1997 funding level. in talking with the folks at the export assistance center at bryant college. its my understanding that expanding the itdn could be done over 2 years. with a first year cost of about $925.000. id ask the distinguished manager if i could get his endorsement of my proposal.
. reserving the right to object. i am afraid i will have to object. the fact remains that the amendment of the distinguished senator from missouri is just as bad in its import as the amendment of the dis-: tinguished senator from michigan. this would permit chrysler to pay dividends on preferred stock that it issues. in other. words. the taxpayers money for the loan is to be used so they can pay dividends. this almost reaches into the same classic category as the wheelingpittsburgh steel loan of $150 million and wheelingpittsburgh steel declaring a $1 special dividend 2 weeks ago with that taxpayers money. i want to say this is a terribly important amendment by the distinguished senator from missouri. it deserves full attention and full discussion. i see both of my good friends. senator eagleton and senator levin. on the floor. i object at this time.
. i urge my colleagues to adopt this amendment so that the commerce department can vigorously pursue promotion of small business exporting in a manner that will insure that these businesses tap their full export potential.
the general idea of the organization is to include within itself the 20 countries encompassed essentially within the organization for european ecoic cooperation and development . the united states and canada are only associate members. i have little doubt that if there were any insistent desire to broaden the scope. there would be receptivity to broadening it. right  the expectation is for those 20 countries to participate. the association with japan has come about in a very interesting way through a specialized group kn as the development advisory group. of which japan is a member. with the particular mission of devising a partnership for the purpose of helping less developed areas. at the moment. i believe one can say "yes" to the senators question. because it is  in contemplation to make this a worldwide organization having open membership. however. i have little doubt that if there is any insistent desire to have others outside the western community join. such a desire will be sympathetically received. but right  the organization which is contemplated is an organization of the western community. . the progress of these countries has really been remarkable. the per capita gross national product of the inner six has increased by more than 50 percent since 1950. this compares with a 33percent increase in the united states. indeed. it may be that this newfound confidence. to which i have already referred. among these western european countries is already having an effect upon u.s. exports. our exports to the european common market countries in january and february 1960. amounted to $546.5 million worth. this is a 52percent increase over the same period in 1959. and a 36percent increase over those in 1956. our last mal export year. indeed. our latest report shows that commercial exports soared in march to the highest level in nearly 21/2 years. and it is expected that again the figures on trade with the european common market countries will show a material increase. more than 17 percent of our u.s. exports go to european common market countries. but this does  yet begin to represent to us the importance which foreign trade represents to both the "inner six" and the "outer seven." as it is estimated generally that foreign trade amounts to about 35 percent of the ecoies of western european countries. whereas in our case foreign trade amounts to less than 7 percent of our own ecoy. but this is critical to our ecoy as it is to theirs. there is very serious concern becoming more and more manifested in the country during this period as to the competition of imports into the united states and their effect upon domestic industry. in these calculations the interests of consumers are extremely important. as consumers wish to benefit from the moderating effect on prices and quality which comes also from foreign competition. . there has been grave concern in fields like certain kinds of textiles. shoes. gloves. ceramics. china. and other products that unfair competition was being created by exports to the united states from especially lowwage areas. the fundamental ecoic improvement in western europe and the broadening of their own internal markets should go a long way toward helping us insofar as imports from free europe are concerned. our ecoists are predicting that we are   being outproduced and outpriced abroad. though we may have shifts in the emphasis of our production for export. for example. we have been doing very well in exporting all types of machinery. while we have suffered in exports of textiles. it is logical to expect that there will be a rationalization of production throughout the world as world trade increases and expands and the free world becomes more closely knit ecoically. but this does  mean that our people need to be hurt. rather. they need to be benefited. it is up to us by carrying out the protections acorded by the reciprocal trade agreements act in respect of "perilpoint" and "escapeclause" proceedings to protect our domestic industry insofar as it is required by overall ecoic and national security considerations. the "phasing out" of problems for domestic business which are raised by imports. as well as adjustment assistance to help enable individual workers and small business through proper financing to adjust to new ecoic conditions. can all help very materially. the important thing is that without throwing any workers on the scrap heap. the prosperity and ecoic stability of the american people and of the other peoples of the free world can be materially advanced by enlightened policies in respect of trade. in that same connection. i should like to advert to the very important stake our farmers have in this very important problem of trade to which i have been referring. i see on the floor the very distinguished senator from kentucky . a leading authority on foreign affairs. who at one time represented our country in india. in his state there is a problem with respect to tobacco. one of the problems created by the common market in europe was with respect to tariffs. and how the duty shall be fixed on tobacco. whether a high tariff. such as that charged by germany should be fixed. or whether a lower charge. such as that fixed by other members of the european common market. should be established. in this problem we have both a challenge and an opportunity. on the one hand. if the united states is concerned in the new ecoic organization to which i have been referring. and to which my distinguished colleague from tennessee has referred. we have an opportunity to rationalize these problems. on the other hand. if the europeans are going to follow the old. traditional patterns of raising emous amounts of revenue on products such as tea. coffee. and tobacco. then the new degree of more prosperous internal markets which they are creating by new federations in ecoic terms will  be benficial to the rest of the world. it seems to me it is greatly to the interest of the united states that there should be a greatly increased market for commodities. including tobacco. and that trade barriers with respect to them should be materially reduced. and i think that such a policy will be of benefit  only to us. but to them. giving their people a higher living standard. however. in order to bring about such a result. we must be ready to have the american presence in the ecoic affairs of the western european community far more fully represented than it is today. i think that is a very important added reason why we must consider our joining this new ecoic organization.
 and chairman of the exportimport bank. in a letter reporting the banks position on my export promotion act of 1960. mr. linder stated that the extension would "give the bank continuity of operation and enable it to continue with maximum efficiency to carry out the objectives and purposes for which it was created." i ask that the bill be appropriately referred.
madam president. for myself and the senator from oregon . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill providing for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states. a similar commission established by congress in 1940. the temporary national ecoic commission. filed extensive reports on many phases of our ecoic life. including the antitrust laws. but the advent of world war ii made implementation of them impossible. in 1955 the attorney generals national committee to study the antitrust laws was aher effort in this direction. and several of its recommendations were embodied in law. however. in the intervening years we have seen great changes in the ecoic structure of both the nation and the world. and the shift in the cold war to an ecoic battlefield. there is increasing indication that in certain major areas of their application. our antitrust laws are obsolete and that for the ecoic health of our nation. procedures in the enforcement of the antitrust laws need revision. these changes. in our view. clearly require a fresh. thorough examination of the impact of our antitrust laws and policies upon u.s. productivity. u.s. longrange ecoic growth. and u.s. trade. foreign investment. and foreign ecoic policy generally. the commission. comprised of experts selected on a bipartisan basis from the executive branch. the congress. and private life. would provide the broadly based vantage point for such an examination and would make recommendations for revising the antitrust laws. both in substance and in procedure. domestic ecoic issues which the commission would be expected to inquire into would include those highlighted by the recent steel price rise controversy: the pressing need. imposed by competition from abroad. for rapid modernization of plant. the commission would study the impact of the antitrust laws upon joint research and develop.ment to solve that problem and the related problem of chronic unemployment. also. the reversal last week by the supreme court of the doctrine of primary jurisdiction. which had resulted in leaving to regulatory agencies the principal responsibility for approval of mergers in a number of important regulated industries.  places even greater emphasis upon the antitrust laws than ever before. the ecoic implications of this development must be thoroughly explored. particularly in the case of those industries which depend for their survival upon increased efficiency and productivity. the area which would claim equal attention by the commission is that of foreign trade and investment. i introduced last week a series of bills designed to implement the report on eastwest trade which i made after returning from the soviet union. where i went on a mission for the joint ecoic committee. i found that. because of their moithic state trading organizations. the communists are taking advantage of our competitive system to bid off individual free world businessesand i define business to include management. labor investors. farmers. and consumersagainst each other. which has resulted in alarming soviet acquisitions of techogical khow and advanced equipment. also. the soviet trading mooly is creating a considerable problem for the free world by increased oil sales to the west. to combat this. u.s. business will have to cooperate with other free world business enterprises in meeting the competition of the communist trading organizations in the markets of the world. under existing law there are grave impediments to such cooperative activity. a highly limited exemption from the antitrust laws for export cooperation was provided by the webbpomerene export trade act in 1918. however. this is limited to the associations of u.s. firms so that cooperative arrangements for export trade between other western corporations and u.s. firms. or even webbpomerene associations. are  treated as within the webbpomerene exemption. thus. the legality of such arrangements for the purpose of meeting soviet bloc trading organizations is shrouded in uncertainty and would have high priority as a subject for study by the commission. other areas of foreign trade and antitrust law are also in need of examination. a prime example is that of official policy vacillation toward middle east oil consortia. which have alternatively been given approval and condemned. "clearance letters" from the attorney general have been used as a limited informal device for alleviating uncertainty in the foreign trade area. and it would be the commissions responsibility to evaluate the possibility of stable statutory procedures for clearance. perhaps involving the state department as well as the justice department. it should be ed that in 1951 i introduced a similar bill in the house of representatives and the distinguished senator from oregon introduced a companion bill in the senate. the increased urgency of the problems which i have outlined make a comprehensive survey and evaluation of the antitrust laws even more imperative . and i strongly urge that congress authorize such an undertaking without delay.
there is one thing my colleague from new york has  mentioned. the senator and i have both been very much interested in this whole eastwest trade problem and have worked together on the export control act. i refer to the antitrust laws. which also. as well as the conflictofinterest laws. have a considerable effect on this situation. i wish to call attention to the fact that the banking and currency committee will soon be considering some possibilities along this line. related to section 708 of the defense production act. which permits the attorney general to exempt certain arrangements from the antitrust laws in the national interest. i should like to call this to the attention of my colleague from new york and to the attention of all members of the senate. so that if they have any questions or any views or evidence which they would like to offer upon the subject as it relates to this matter of meeting soviet competition in trade. the banking and currency committee will be hearing evidence on these issues as they relate to pending amendments to the defense production act.
. i am alarmed by the widening rift in free world trade policies with the soviet bloc. it is vitally important that whatever the nations of the free world do. we do together in eastwest trade. today western european nations sell a great deal to the communist bloc countries while we do . it is time to end this contradiction in the critically important trade policy of the free world. my report was designed to try to deal with that and to offer specific proposals for legislation to try to perfect our cooperation. which is so essential in respect to the free worlds relations with the soviet bloc and for world peace. in the measures i am introducing today. one of the amendments to the antidumping act would broaden the present definition of parties injured by such "dumping" in order to include industries of friendly nations u.s. industries alone. therefore. sanctions of the antidumping act could be invoked if cutrate sales by communist bloc countries threatened to destroy the u.s. market for the products of free world nations. in the expectation that similar measures would be enacted by other free world nations. section 2 of the bill would redefine the term "dumping" in such a way that this practice could be determined independently of cost and price factors prevailing in the exporting country whose commerce and internal ecoy is statecontrolled. this is necessary. because the statecontrolled ecoies of the soviet bloc make it impossible to assign true costs and prices to their exports. actually. all of their goods carry a political price tag and costs are judged by the communists in terms of political gain. therefore. the selling price of soviet bloc exports must be judged in terms of free world prices for similar goods or soviet prices to the buyers most dependent on themwhichever is the higher. this bill would focus on the politicallymotivated pricing policies of the communist bloc. redefinition of "dumping" would set some realistic standards by which the free world could judge the pricing of communist bloc exports and at the same time would highlight the overcharging engaged in by the soviet union in its exports to its satellite nations. it should be ed that the bill goes beyond s. 1318. introduced by the distinguished senators from minnesota and pennsylvania (mr. scotti] and others on april 11. my bill would introduce the concept of reciprocity into antidumping law by protecting the markets of friendly countries in the united states and protecting our oversea markets from the threat of disruptive soviet bloc trade practices. it places antidumping law within the framework of eastwest trade policy and will add aher element of strength to interallied unity. in this connection i would like to bring to my colleagues attention the excellent statement made by professor strauszhup6 before the internal security subcommittee of the senate committee on the judiciary on october 26. 1962. with regard to the problem of the export of strategic materials to the u.s.s.r. and other bloc countriessee hearings pages 415424. his statement supports my contention that the united states as well as our western allies must develop an effective policy to meet the blocs ecoic offensive. such a policy requires a variety of tools. the three bills i am introducing today offer a variety of such tools. there is aher aspect of u.s. policy in eastwest trade which requires the most careful consideration: the effect of our antitrust laws on the formation of consortia of united states business cooperating with other free world business enterprises in order to face in the markets of the world the moithic state trading organizations of the soviet bloc. on april 2. i introduced s. 1255. which is cosponsored by senators cooper. hartke and brewster. for the establishment of a commission on revision of the antitrust laws of the united states. which would undertake a comprehensive review of the impact of our laws on this problem. among others. and of what amendments may be needed. i emphasize to all senators the urgency of a coordinated policy on eastwest trade. which is what i seek to bring about with this series of measures. i very much hope that these bills will receive favorable attention by the senate. as did my amendment to the export control act in the last session.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in. the record. a table showing the -gold and foreign exchange cover requirements of selected foreign central. banks for the latest period available. it indicates- that the united states is in the miity.  the majority. in that- regard.
i am grateful to the senator. i have had aher amendment printed. relating to the possibility of research by aid into the means of enabling the investment public in the united states to participate more fully in the ecoic development of the less developed countries. i believe an amendment is  really the best way to get at that kind of administrative question of policy. so i have intention of pressing that amendment. however. i should like to ask the chairman of the committee for his opinion as to what he considers to be a reasonable order of priority. what i have in mind specifically is a bill which has been introduced by me in the 87th congress. together with other senators. called the "peace by investment corporation" bill. whatever may be its defects or its merits. it calls for a corporation to be organized. facilitated by the u.s. government. to be privately financed. with the idea of giving the american citizenthe rankandfile investoran opportunity for a stake in the foreign aid program. at present. we are encouraging only private investment on the major scale of a business corporation. i k that the senator is as disheartened as i amand we are doing our best to do something about itthat only 5 percent of american business concerns are engaged in oversea export and import or in oversea private investment. it seems to us highly inconceivable that we are  able to do better in our great nation. in view of the enterprise and opportunity which exist abroad. we should at least consider whetherthrough some investment company mechanism on a very big scale. with some government help. a private investor can be brought into the picture and an effort can be made to take a big part of the load from. the backs of the taxpayers by a major private enterprise effort financed by small investments. so i ask the chairman of the committee to be good egh to give me his opinion. which might help in directing the attention of aid to the possibility that it needs some staff checking.
. the in- as i see it. becomes one of mitigating ternational coffee agreement will loom random and cyclical fluctuations in the as a critically important element in the price of coffee--or any other primary question of whether we will suceed or commoditywithout interfering with fail in latin america. i say that be- whatever longterm trend would be cause it is very clear from past experi- established by free market forces. inence that a sharp decline in the price creased stability in export proceeds of of one commodity can wipe out in one developing primary producing countries aftern our combined efforts to raise could make a valuable contribution to standards of living in latin america their ability to make longrange develthrough private and public investment. opment plans. i favor the agreement because it is essential . it is limited in time. both in the implementing legislation and in the agreement itself. furthermore. it will give the countries involved an opportunity to make their transition. which we are financing . in trying to help them make it. which would otherwise be eroded by the terms of trade and the fundamental commodities on which they live. i do  wish it to be said that i am  interested in consumers. but it is one thing to be for consumers. and aher thing to satisfy the needs of consumers by taking it out of the backs of producers. who are less well off. on the whole. than many of our consumers. for these reasons. i support the position taken by the senator from illis . i am delighted that he has taken this position and feel that the consumers point is answered by the fact that he does  wish to benefit the consumer at the expense of the exploited producers.
 of the interamerican development bank. jose mayobre. executive director of the united nations ecoic commission for latin america. and raul prebisch. secretary general of the united nations conference on trade and development. the fact that this proposal has been made by four such distinguished leaders of interamerican thought is highly significant. but the support of public opinion and political support at the highest levels in latin america is also vital. i strongly urge the political leaders of the hemisphere to translate this idea of a latin american common -market into the reality of a mass market of some 220 million people with a combined gross national product of between $70 and $80 billion. it is also appropriate to remind all those working toward this inestimably important goal that hemispheric unity is vital to its success. and that provisions must be made for the eventual inclusion in such a market of the united states and canada. the largest markets of all. there is place in the americas for any exclusivist concept of the ecoic unification of the hemisphere. without th america. success of such a venture is dubious. at best. and. there is need to court failure. as public opinion in th america is very sympathetic to these ideas. to those of our neighbors in latin america who see their course as being ecoic unification of latin america alone. which could then do business with europe and th as potential competitors one with the other. it should be pointed out that this arrangement will  provide the best opportunity for success for any of the parties involved. the ecoic unity of the americas is the logical course. and it should be broadened to include canada. bringing it into full association with latin america. in this way we can assure that the experience of the european common market is paralleled to give the greatest strength ecoically to all the americas and make it as greatly an improved trading partner for europe as the eec has proved to be to itself and the americas and the rest of the world. accordingly. the latin american common market proposed in todays report should be the first step toward the ultimate objective of a western hemisphere free trade area. aiding the growth of the private sector in the constitutional republics of the americasand maintaining a place for cuba. when that nation becomes again free and democratic. therefore. the establishment of an action committee for the ecoic union of the americas. which i proposed in mexico city on april 5. is  more appropriate than ever before. it is evident that true ecoic integration of the americas can be realized only through full political commitment to it at the highest levels and with the strong support of democratic political parties. trade unions. education leaders. men of influence in all walks of life. and the peoples concerned. even though the interamerican committee on the alliance for progressciapministerial groups. experts. and private enterprise hemispherewide organizations such as the interamerican council for commerce and productioncicypand the council for latin america in the united states fully realize this need. such commitment has  been made evident today to an appreciable egh degree. unless widespread political support develops the great gains made by the latin american free trade area. the central american common market. and the alliance for progress could be dissipated with the most damaging consequences to the future of freedom and wellbeing in the hemisphere. under my proposal leaders of democratic political parties and trade unions of the americaswhich excludes the extremist right and the communist leftand latin american personalities devoted to the cause of education and of democratic reform and unity would join in the establishment of an action committee which would dedicate its heart and soul and its influence to bringing about a true continental ecoic union. the committee would do this by rallying strong political support behind the idea of a treaty for a latin american common market. composed of all the nations of latin america. to be followed in due course. as the latin american members agree. by a treaty for a western hemisphere free trade area. including the united states and canada.
. we can certainly think of many ways in which to improve the ecoic situation of people within this countryincluding the people who make brooms. if necessary. but we can change geography. mexico is our southern neighbor  and for all eternity. it is  in our interests to give a neighbor. whom we want to be friendly. a gratuitous slap in the face. adopting the amendment of which i have been speaking would be such a gratuitous action. the american broom industry is  depressed. it is true that imports of brooms have been increasing. but so has domestic consumption. in fact. domestic consumption has been increasing so fast that domestic output has been increasing alsodespite the rise in imports. which account for only a small part of the sales on our market. in absolute terms. domestic production increased from $33 million in 1958 to $38 million in 1964 while imports were increasing from under onehalf million to $1.1 million. i do  question. you will e. that this committees amendment would be of benefit to the commercial broom producers of america. how could i. the result of this amendment would be to quadruple the duty on brooms. making the ad valorem equivalent about 100 percent. i would expect that this high a duty would just about totally exclude imports of brooms. what i do question. as i stated at the beginning. is the wisdom of aiding this one american industry at the expense of our foreign policy objectives. as i have mentioned. one of these objectives is to keep mexico a. good neighbor. successive mexican ambassadors have assured our government that passage of a measure to increase the broom duty would have a terrible effect upon mexican attitudes toward the united states. aher important objective of american policy is increased world trade. this very definitely includes increased american exports. mexico is one of the very best foreign markets for our exports. in 1964 u.s. exports to mexico reached the unprecedented level of over $1 billion. they exceeded our imports from mexico by more than $400 million. while the broom amendments effects on the american ecoy as a whole would be insignificant. it would be a wonderful contribution to any campaign in mexico against imports from the united states. the united states has been involved in the effort to raise the living standards of lessdeveloped countries since the war. in recent years a great deal of emphasis has been given to this program as it affects our neighbors to the south. in the form of the alliance for progress. we have followed a relatively toughminded policy in recent years. we have  been favorable to tariff preferences for products of underdeveloped countries. we have said. instead. that they stand to benefit from the general lowering of our duties. surely raising the tariff on an item like brooms. largely imported from one lessdeveloped country. makes a mockery of our advice. instead of seeming tough minded. it seems hypocritical. aher thing we have urged upon our less wealthy brethren. especially those to our south. is that selfhelp is an essential element in ecoic improvement. my information is that selfhelp is the explanation of the flourishing broom industry of that town of cadereyta in mexico. i believe that we have been urging delegations to go there and see what can be done if a locality organizes itself to improve its lot. it would be a terrible blow to our reputation for sincerity if we were  to stunt if  destroy the ecoy of cadereyta. we would be saying. "help yourself." but our practice would be read as saying. "but only if you dont succeed too well." it has been. therefore. a source of gratification to me to have been a party to working out a compromise. the lines of settlement are substantially those adopted last year when i waged a fight on this subject. and it will result in something of a quota and something of an increase in the ad valorem duty. it is  all our way by any means. but it will result in maintaining at least a reasonable status quo in our relations with mexico. because of the growth factor provision which was added. the basic principle was also preserved which we are seeking to preserve. that there shall be foreign competition. in order that this competition shall moderate the domestic price. foreign producers. mainly mexico. would also be able to have the benefit of an increased u.s. market when domestic consumption increases but would have to sacrifice a proportion of that market when u.s. consumption decreases. this is fair to the domestic industry. which involves many broom manufacturers. the blind. penal institutions. college students. and so forth. at the same time the compromise is fair. we believe. to our neighbor mexico. and to other countries which may be concerned with our export policy. let me pay tribute to the senator from california for his statesmanship and leadership in my judgment. materially. and at the same time has made his fundamental point. we have found a way to get together. i pay tribute to all parties concerned. personally. we are making progress. the growth factor had a great deal to do with the constructive and creative aspect of the amendment.
. i shall be but 1 minute more to put a few facts in the record. i. too. would like to apologize to the senator from oklahoma for imposing on him and to thank him for his patience. i am quoting from a document prepared by the american enterprise institute for public policy research. entitled "u.s. foreign trade policy after the kennedy round." i ask unanimous consent that a number of paragraphs be inserted in my remarks which show that while agricultural protectionism is very strong in the european common marketand i will stand shoulder to shoulder with my colleagues in fighting itwe do etheless sell to them. in 1966 the common market countries alone bought 30 percent of all u.s. agricultural products sold for dollars.
. i ask unanimous consent that an unusually perceptive article written by prof. richard n. gardner and published in the london times be printed in the record. professor gardner" an internationally recognized expert and author of "sterlingdollar diplomacy" examines the growing debate on britains application to join the common market and the alternate idea of a th atlantic free trade areanafta---and the" obstacles both in europe and america to freer trade.
ial task forces on trade and aid will also be working and making their recommendations early next year. it is fair to say that the ecoic and trade poicies of europe and japab will help determine the eventual shape of our policies. they will also help determine the actions of the 91st congress in the months ahead. finally. i would like again to turn to the words of donald m. kendalli distinguished business leader and chairman of the emergency committee for american trade. when he said in january of this year: what the world needs  is trade peacb.  trade war. it renjaing for all parties to construct such a trade peaceparticularly when the omens seem to be pointing in the other direction. i also believe that if indeed the first shots of a trade war already have been fired. they were  fired by the united states. the opening salvos peihaps are represented by the japanese billiondollar trade surplus for 2 years running and the movement of the european common market toward protectionism. the time is short before american defensive actions accelerate. to europe and japan i say in effect: "it is your choice."
exactly right. i again express my gratitude to the ranking member of the committee for his support. . one critical. important aspect of this matter is that. just like our aid program. investment will be tied to purchasing in the united states. so that we should suffer loss in respect of the balance of payments in the operations of this corporation. so that the return in terms of the balance of payments would far exceed whatever dollars are put out in the way of the modest loan accounts which the corporation is authorized to carry. that is a very important point. because new business ventures will be made possible by the operation of this corporation which are  made possible . in addition. it is very important to e that one of the most productive sources of what are called hidden exports for the united states is the return on our own investments abroad. we  have well over $100 billion invested abroad. and this produces a return far above what we pay out in the way of overseas private investment ourselves. something in the area  of $5 or $6 billion a year comes in. and only about $4 billion goes out. so that this will accelerate that kind of balance and improve it. rather than work the other way.
. i thank the majority leader very much. i shall be through in just 1 minute. i wonder if we could have any expression from the manager of the bill and the ranking miity member as to whether it would be possible to get hearings before the banking committee on this question. i would  wish to put it up to the senate without the background of the departments opinion. and so forth. and i do think it is a critical question in foreign exchange and in respect to how we utilize our gold stock. which the dominick amendment. in a sense. opens up. it opens up this question. could we have any feeling as to whether we can get a hearing within the approximate future on this issue.
