. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to complete the preservation of the potomac river shoreline opposite george washingtons home at mount ver. the physical setting of mount ver is magnificent. the view across the potomac to the tranquil maryland shore is substantially the same as it was during washigtons time. because of the importance of preserving this view from mount ver as part of our historic and natural heritage. congress passed laws in 1961 and 1966 establishing the shore opposite mount ver as a federal preserve. it is kn as piscataway park. with the generous help of private groups and individuals. including former congresswoman frances bolton. much of the land and scenic easements that will comprise the park has been acquired. unfortunately. however. completion of the park is being frustrated by the withholding of a crucial parcel of land at the lower. or downstream. end. the parcel consists of 367.5 acres. most of which is undeveloped. and ought to remain so. the balance of the parcel. about 35 acres. is taken up by the marshall hall amusement park. the owners of this parcel have been successful in escaping federal control because. under a provision in the park authorization law. the land is to be covered only by scenic easements. this situation developed in 1961 when congress was considering the legislation to authorize the park. at the time it was thought the scenic easements would be donated in return for exempting the marshall hall property from acquisition. while congress in good faith provided the exemption. grant of scenic easements has been forthcoming. . regrettably. do any seem in immediate prospect despite the continuing efforts of the department of the interior. in view of the deadlock. the department has moved to determine whether the costs of acquiring the easements through condemnation will exceed its budget of $4.1 million for completing the park. last december as part of this effort. the department brought suit in federal court to ascertain the potential costs. however. its suit does  go as far as actually taking the easements if the costs are within reason. the suit is still to be tried. meantime. the matter has taken on urgency because of .the success of the property owners in securing a zoning change which will allow them to develop commercially up to a third of the undeveloped portion of the parcel. proposals for developing the area have ranged from aher disneyland to a golf course with parking lots along with a large housing development. in midfebruary. according to press reports. more than a dozen trees were cut down along the marshall hall waterfront in full view of mount ver. apparently. the owners of the parcel mean to take advantage of the commercial rezoning. the time has come to call a halt to this frustration of the will of congress with regard to marshall hall. legislation must be passed authorizing the department of the interior to buy the property outright. my bill provides the necessary authority to accomplish this. also it removes the present funding ceiling which has been an impediment to bringing the property under federal control. last june i urged then secretary of the interior walter hickel to support my proposal for legislation authorizing the acquisition of the marshall hall property. in reply. mr. hickel asked forbearance to allow time for completion of negotiations on the scenic easements. the time for forbearance has ended. the time for action by congress to acquire the marshall hall property has arrived. i urge the prompt passage of my bill. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my bill be printed in the record after my remarks.
