i thank my colleague from illis for his generosity in connection with the housing problem. i agree with the senator from illis that the problems of the cities involve a great majority of the people of the united states. and there is some common cause which can be made among us upon that subject. i point out that there was a great housing bill of 1949. the taftellenderwagner bill. the other day we heard a able address by former senator taft on a recording before the subcommittee on housing of the committee on banking and currency. the great taftellenderwagner bill was a bipartisan bill. i had the privilege of being its sponsor in the house of representatives. this is the tradition in connection with housing legislation. however. i point out that the main thrust of my speech today is on general ecoic policy. what i am doing is comparing the constructiveness of housing as it adds to the wealth of the country with the general wastefulness of the farm program as it has been conducted. in order to demonstrate that the mere fact that we are spending x dollars is  in and of itself determinative of whether we are breaking or upholding a budget. the main question is. what are we spending the money for. that is as critically important. at least. as the fact that it represents a budgetary item. the ecoic productivity of housing programs is in sharp contrast with the productive expenditures involved in our emously expensive farm program. a substantial portion of increased farm output is directly attributable to production for government price support payments. this factor is particularly damaging since the increase in output often bears relationship to demand or needs. this is especially the case with the basic crops of wheat. cotton. corn. tobacco. rice. and peanuts. a reduction of the federal governments price guarantees is sound. but such a cutback must be coupled with more vigorous substantive programsthese will also cost money. but money infinitely better spent. they include increased industrial uses of farm products. more efficient mechanization. better marketingincluding processing and packaging closer to the farmgreater utilization of farm products in foreign aid. our dairy farms in new york. for example. have shown a marked ability to adjust to a more realistic situation without much government help. housing is constructive. and adds to the wealth of the country and to its incomingpaying capacity. and the real property taxpaying capacity in cities. in addition to all kinds of social benefits. the farm program is a deadweight in the u.s. ecoy. the emous agricultural surplus maintained by the federal government should be an asset. incidentally. it is an asset existent in the soviet union. this stock of commodities is  valued at approximately $9 billion. and the congress recently appropriated aher $4 billion for surpluses under the fiscal 1960 budget. it may be impractical to achieve a more reasonable ratio between actual farm output and consumer demand. but the size of this surplus puts us on our mettle to find more productive uses for it. our federal farm stabilization program is more like the story of "the sorcerers apprentice." by paul dukas. the apprentice has learned to turn on the water tap in that musical tone poem but can shut it off. and it begins flowing faster and faster. we need to rationalize our agricultural situation by understanding that we can keep active every farm. withstanding advancing techogy but that we must finance the transition. however. we must also learn that food is a powerful asset of foreign policy. espeially in nations beginning to industrialize. ip order  to waste our surplus. but to use it to the greatest effect in the cause of freedom. while at the same time we seek methods of trying to end the conditions which produce the surplus. . in evaluating the major ecoic programs still to come before congress at this sessionhighways and housing. farm price supports. and school constructioneach of us should look beyond the immediate price tag and analyze their actual impact on the national ecoy for fiscal 1960 as well as on our ecoic growth. national productivity. and potential federal revenues in the years ahead. most of these programs have some combination of the various types of expenditures discussed. some will meet the test of hardheaded fiscal scrutiny and others undoubtedly may . i give these two examples of two very different kinds of programs. as they affect the budget. one of which is strong. sound. helpful. and productive. the other of which seems to be a wasted asset in terms of the ultimate good it does. evaluated to the strength and capacity of the united states. in short. the most serious challenge as yet unmet by the congress or the country is the consclenti61is effort required to reconcile our differing views into a meaningful. dynamic fiscal policy instead of constantly pitting the opposing viewpoints against each other in a deadend fight which will be over when one side or the other is vanquished or expires from exhaustion. the objective of a balanced federal budget over a cyclical period is a sound one and should be followed. but the existence of the cold war intruding into the ecoic life of our country. the persistence of more than mal unemployment for the united states as a whole. and the relentless pressure of. competition from the u.s.s.r. demands of us that we adjust our fiscal policy to avoid jeopardizing our national future. but. at one and the same time. we must also move into other fields at home and abroad in order to develop our resources and broaden the ecoic base required to carry out our worldwide responsibilities. we are uniquely able to do thisand we are the only country in the free world which possesses this capabilityprovided that we have the vision to undertake the necessary development at home and abroad sustained by the high level of national morale and dedication essential to the achievement of our objectives.
