i thank the senator from georgia. may i suggest at this point. in line with what the distinguished senator from georgia has stated. that the age of retirement under the various pension plans has been gradually dropping for one reason or aher. for instance. in my own state a person in state service may retire at age 55 by paying a higher rate of contribution. it seems to me. in view of that circumstanceand i assume that it is only typical of what we may expect in the future throughout the country. because if the time ever comes again when there is serious unemployment. as may some time occur. we shall need to find new ways to take care of such a situationin view of that circumstance. i repeat. it seems to me that it would be well in the study which is being made and which is likely to be made and which has been referred to in this colloquy. to consider a retirement system of that type which some time may be applied generally in this country. in other words. when a tax plan is finally evolvedfor we can have this inequitable situation foreverwith reference to a kind of retirement program in which the age of retirement is 55 instead of 65 years. it should treat fairly all pensioners and annuitants.
i think the senators suggestion is well made. i am thankful to him. . the question may be raised that the board can handle this many cases. i do  k. in the first instance. that the board can handle this many cases. i tried my best in all the hearings i attendedand i attended them when the board chairman appeared and the counsel appeared before the committee on labor and public welfare and the subcommitteeto get from the representatives of the board what they needed. they indicated to me that with an additional appropriation above what was allowed by the house of representativesi think it was $3 millionthe board could take on 20 percent more cases. i asked the witnesses at that time whether the 20 percent would cover the "mans land" cases. they did  k how many cases were in the "mans land" area. in other words. i discovered. on inquiry. that ody in the united states. apparently. has any idea what the load of "mans land" cases is. how many cases would fall within that description. the area it would cover. or anything about it. they did  k. if this amendment is adopted. it will  take the board very long to find out. it will  take us very long to ascertain whether the board is able. with this additional appropriation. to handle all the cases. by the way. i should like to say the appropriation referred to is  merely a happy thought. the appropriations subcommittee dealing with the question has already approved it. there is provided $11/2 million above the budget estimate. $13.100.000. i think we can hold that increase. because i believe the country realizes. and i think we can get the house of representatives to realizei am sure the house willthat the amount is absolutely necessary. we have to have a vital agency that can do the job it is supposed to do. and the failure to do it is raising cain in our ecoy. i am  disturbed about that feature of the question. i think this is the proper way to approach it. i originally was  for that idea. i was for the approach the senator from utah is espousing. that approach would be more satisfactory to the people of the state of new york than would the approach i am here proposing. but i am  in the senate to participate in enacting legislation only for one state. i want to get something in the law which will work for thewhole country. and i believe my amendment will do that. if the state of new york is  benefited as much by this approach as it would be by the other approach. it is too bad. ultimately. all the states will be benefited by this kind of approach and will be satisfied with it. that -is the position i am taking on the question. so i urge the senate to approve the substitute to the amendment offered by the senator from utah.
. i rise in support of the conference report. the final version of the revenuesharing bill. first. let me e that i was pleased to work with my colleague. the gentleman from new york and gover rockefeller to draft the bipartisan resolution of the new york delegation supporting revenue sharing. clearly. the funds from revenue sharing are critical for the state of new york. although i would point out that the formula in the bill as it passed the house and was sent to the senate was clearly preferable to the one adopted by the senate and the conference committee. due to the agreements made in conference. new york state lost $58.2 million. and funds for westchester county. much of which i represent. were just about cut in half. under the bill as it  stands. new york state will receive a total of $591.4 million rather than $649.6 million. westchester county will receive a total of $8.3 million. instead of the $16.3 originally passed by the house. briefly. this reduction was due to the senate formula relating to entitlements of the localities. this threefactor formula is based onethird of the basis of population. onethird on per capita income. and onethird on tax effort. whereas the houses original fivefactor formula had included other factors such as "urbanized population." taking into account the high cost of services in urban and suburban areas. i am disappointed that the conference agreement did  include these other factors or permit optional applications for the localities. however. despite this formula. i would point out that the state may act to change the local formulas and redistribute the funds. this can be done in two ways. first of all. of the $591.4 million which goes to new york. the state itself receives $197.1 millio onethirdand the localities receive a total of $394.3 millio twothirds. i am hopeful that the state will act to distribute at least some of its $197.1 million to the localities which were hardest hit by the changed formula. clearly westchester. and specifically cities and villages such as yonkers. new rochelle. white plains. mount ver. and mamaroneck will need this assistance. and i hope the state legislature will act out of fairness to redistribute its funds to the localities. it is free to do this at any time. including retroactively. the second vehicle for changing the formula for the localities is slightly more complex. although equally important. the state legislature may adopt an alternate formula to be distributed among its localities. based on either the population multiplied by the tax effort. or. the population multiplied by the relative income factor. since the legislature. however. must ify the treasury department at least 30 days before the new entitlement period is to beginunder which the changed formula will be effectiveit will have to act early next year to make the change effective for the period beginning july 1. 1973. and be ready to ify the treasury department by june 1. 1973. only one formula change will be permitted in the 5year life of the bill. listed below is a chart of the funds which can be expected for cities and villages in the district i represent. as allotted in the conference report: funds for the district [in dollars] westchester county area ------- $8.300. 000 westchester county government- 2. 500.000 total to all cities over 2500 ---- 4.700.000 total to all cities under 2500 ----- 27.000 total to all townships ---------- 1.000. 000 larchmont village --------------31.000 mamaroneck village ------------ 79.000 mt. ver city --------------- 714.000 new rochelle city --------------546. 000 th pelham village ----------- 35.000 ossining village --------------- 135.000 pelham ma village ---------- 29.000 port chester village ------------213.000 rye city --------------------- 68.000 scarsdale village --------------- 83.000 white plains city -------------- 359.000 yonkers city ------------------1.700. 000 a breakdown for townships will be available in about 2 weeks. unincorporated towns may receive funds only if they can prove that they are viable and independent government entities. they may appeal to the secretary of the treasury in order to receive funds. but must prove their nature as a local government: for instance. that they raise or spend money. in sum. i support the revenuesharing bill and urge my colleagues to lend it their full support. attached to the revenuesharing provision. however. is an onerous and unfair provisionagain added by the other body. i refer here to title iii of the bill. which places a ceiling of $2.5 billion on social services expenditures and which reduces the federal contribution in the matching grants program from 75 percent to 25 percent. i strongly oppose this ceiling. which in my judgment does  belong in this legislation. and in addition is also arbitrary. discriminatory. and highly inequitable. the action taken in title iii is precisely the action that congress should  be taking. by this move. congress appears to be taking a meatax approach to human needs and services for even the smallest of children. furthermore. the provision. if enacted. will be distributed without regard to caseload or other factors of need. and thus discrimicxviii- 2238part 27 nates against large urbanized states such as new york. finally. the provision could be counterproductive. since it could actually increase the number of people receiving welfare assistance. in a sense. the term "social services" has become the scapegoat for a welfare system which is in vital need of reform. in spite of the houses action on welfare reform. the prospects for action in this session are clearly dim. and as a result. it appears. congress is taking after social services instead. what i would point out is that these social services are very often used to keep people off welfare. what is a mother to do. for instance. when her childs day care center locks its doors due to lack of funds. as more than half of the federally funded day care centers in new york will have to do if this provision is passed. obviously. she has choice. she will have to quit her job and return home to care for her child. thus losing her source of income and more likely than  returning to the welfare rolls. the administration has already vetoed the comprehensive child development bill. providing quality day care and early education services. they have torpedoed welfare reform. and  they are trying to hold the line on these social services as well as services in h.r. 1. under this provision. as i ed briefly earlier in the debate. although new york state had submitted a budget estimate for fiscal year1973 of $850 million for social services. and even though this estimate had been approved by the department of health. education. and welfare as a realistic figure. the funds to new york would be cut by 74 percent. to $222.7 million.  only is this an outrageous cut of over $600 million for fiscal year 1973. but it is also a cut by over onehalf of what new york state received in federal social services funding in fiscal year 1972an amount of $588 million. let us  give with one hand. as we do in the revenue sharing bill. and take with the other. as the final title of that bill would. let us provide for the needy  in terms of handouts but in terms of resources like day care and manpower training. which some in this house would cut today. this is  only a question of compassion. although we must listen to the cries of human need that are all too frequent in this country and provide for them. it is also a question of pragmatism: are we really going to cut off the sources which enable a person to work and lead a productive life just to throw that person back to the gutter. i say  and i hope the distinguished members of this body will also say  for reasons of simple justice and equity.
. i would like to join .with my colleague senator heinz in introducing the retirement income policy act of 1985. i join with my colleague in introducing this measure because i would like to join the debate over what our nationalretirement income policy should be. before i even start discussing the substance of the bill itself. i want to draw attention to the proposed effective date of this legislationdecember 31. 1990. as those of you familiar with pension plans are aware. the congress has been changing the law in this area with much too much frequency. and it appears that we still do  have a system which is satisfactory. i am joining with senator heinz in suggesting comprehensive changes. but we have set the effective date very far in the future so that we can alleviate the hardship. expense. and uncertainty that these frequent changes have wrought. it is my hope that with adequate leadtime. the affected parties can get together and work out changes which will make the system work better for all. this legislation is designed to increase the retirement security of american workers by encouraging a broader delivery of retirement benefits from employersponsored plans. the bill clarifies the distinction between retirement plans and retirement plans and establishes uniform rules for each. through broadened coverage. earlier vesting. restrictions on preretirement distributions. and limitations on integration of private pension benefits with social security. the bill is designed to improve the current private pension system. as a member of the finance committee and former chairman of the subcommittee on savings. pensions and investment policy. i am well aware that the -socalled tax expenditure for pension contributions and earnings is the largest single expendiate 13813 ture in the federal budget. for fiscal 1986 the amount of revenue foregone as a result of the taxfavored status of employersponsored plans. iras and keoghs is estimated to be almost $70 billion. as a tax -policymaker. that figure catches my attention and i want to k where this revenue is going. in 1974. is passed the employee retirement .income security act [erisa]. many of the problems which erisa was designed to solve have been resolved and new problems have risen in their place. erisa was enacted in part as a reaction to the financial failure of some private pension plans to provide adequate retirement security for their participants. the congress was concerned that retirees would be left with empty promises from pension plans which had squandered plan assets. or employers who had gone out of business. congress was also concerned with onerous vesting requirements which might have resulted in a loyal employee of 30 years being fired. just before vesting or retirement. and left without a pension. but these are the horror stories of 11 years ago. today we have other concerns. we are still concerned with fiduciary standards and the prudent management of plan assets which  total over $600 billion. but one of the major concerns of pension plans is tax planning. erisa has created armies of expertslawyers. accountants and actuarieswho work to assire that pension plans are taxqualified. indeed. tax exemption for the funds and tax deductions and deferral for the contributions are crucial to the growth of the private pension system. i have said before. in the context of tax reform. that we should be examining all the tax expenditures in the federal budget to see whether they are operating as intended. this bill attempts to do that for the $70 billion tax expenditure associated with retirement plans. it attempts to broaden the coverage of pension plans and assure that the revenue loss associated with them is fairly distributed. it improves benefits for our mobile workforce by reducing the minimum vesting standard from 10 years to 5 years. and it prevents extreme reductions in retirement benefits for lower paid workers by limiting the extent of integration with social security. the limitations on taxfavored accumulations are tied to the social security wage base. and contributions to iras are limited if an employee is also participating in a salary reduction plan. the bill also attempts to assure that the moneys in these taxfavored retirement plans are used for retirement by requiring early lump sum distributions from retirement plans to. be placed in an ira or other retirement plan. in addition. it repeals the favorable 10 years averaging treatment for lump sum distributions. however. recognizing that there is still a legitimate need for retirement savings. it seeks to allow a taxfavored vehicle for that as well. but only after an employer has provided for meaningful retirement benefits. in summary. the introduction of this bill is nicant to be the beginning of a debate oh an appropriate retirement income policy. i welcome the comments and suggested changes of my colleagues and all other interested parties.. by mr. eagleton (for himself and mr. danforth): s.j. res. 224. a joint resolution to designate ember 30. 19q5. as "national mark twain day". to the committee on the judiciary.
. i would like to join .with my colleague senator heinz in introducing the retirement income policy act of 1985. i join with my colleague in introducing this measure because i would like to join the debate over what our nationalretirement income policy should be. before i even start discussing the substance of the bill itself. i want to draw attention to the proposed effective date of this legislationdecember 31. 1990. as those of you familiar with pension plans are aware. the congress has been changing the law in this area with much too much frequency. and it appears that we still do  have a system which is satisfactory. i am joining with senator heinz in suggesting comprehensive changes. but we have set the effective date very far in the future so that we can alleviate the hardship. expense. and uncertainty that these frequent changes have wrought. it is my hope that with adequate leadtime. the affected parties can get together and work out changes which will make the system work better for all. this legislation is designed to increase the retirement security of american workers by encouraging a broader delivery of retirement benefits from employersponsored plans. the bill clarifies the distinction between retirement plans and retirement plans and establishes uniform rules for each. through broadened coverage. earlier vesting. restrictions on preretirement distributions. and limitations on integration of private pension benefits with social security. the bill is designed to improve the current private pension system. as a member of the finance committee and former chairman of the subcommittee on savings. pensions and investment policy. i am well aware that the -socalled tax expenditure for pension contributions and earnings is the largest single expendiate 13813 ture in the federal budget. for fiscal 1986 the amount of revenue foregone as a result of the taxfavored status of employersponsored plans. iras and keoghs is estimated to be almost $70 billion. as a tax -policymaker. that figure catches my attention and i want to k where this revenue is going. in 1974. is passed the employee retirement .income security act [erisa]. many of the problems which erisa was designed to solve have been resolved and new problems have risen in their place. erisa was enacted in part as a reaction to the financial failure of some private pension plans to provide adequate retirement security for their participants. the congress was concerned that retirees would be left with empty promises from pension plans which had squandered plan assets. or employers who had gone out of business. congress was also concerned with onerous vesting requirements which might have resulted in a loyal employee of 30 years being fired. just before vesting or retirement. and left without a pension. but these are the horror stories of 11 years ago. today we have other concerns. we are still concerned with fiduciary standards and the prudent management of plan assets which  total over $600 billion. but one of the major concerns of pension plans is tax planning. erisa has created armies of expertslawyers. accountants and actuarieswho work to assire that pension plans are taxqualified. indeed. tax exemption for the funds and tax deductions and deferral for the contributions are crucial to the growth of the private pension system. i have said before. in the context of tax reform. that we should be examining all the tax expenditures in the federal budget to see whether they are operating as intended. this bill attempts to do that for the $70 billion tax expenditure associated with retirement plans. it attempts to broaden the coverage of pension plans and assure that the revenue loss associated with them is fairly distributed. it improves benefits for our mobile workforce by reducing the minimum vesting standard from 10 years to 5 years. and it prevents extreme reductions in retirement benefits for lower paid workers by limiting the extent of integration with social security. the limitations on taxfavored accumulations are tied to the social security wage base. and contributions to iras are limited if an employee is also participating in a salary reduction plan. the bill also attempts to assure that the moneys in these taxfavored retirement plans are used for retirement by requiring early lump sum distributions from retirement plans to. be placed in an ira or other retirement plan. in addition. it repeals the favorable 10 years averaging treatment for lump sum distributions. however. recognizing that there is still a legitimate need for retirement savings. it seeks to allow a taxfavored vehicle for that as well. but only after an employer has provided for meaningful retirement benefits. in summary. the introduction of this bill is nicant to be the beginning of a debate oh an appropriate retirement income policy. i welcome the comments and suggested changes of my colleagues and all other interested parties.. by mr. eagleton (for himself and mr. danforth): s.j. res. 224. a joint resolution to designate ember 30. 19q5. as "national mark twain day". to the committee on the judiciary.
abc and the substitute proposal have very similar bases: a refundable dependent care credit matched with a block grant to states for use as they see fit. it seems to me that the pivotal pointsand i have listened to arguments on both sides of this. and look forward to hearing more discussion on itis how parents. lowincome parents in particular. will be assisted in finding and paying for childcare services. that should be one of the most fundamental goals of any childcare package we adopt. in the abc package. using a bestcase analysis. lowincome parents could be fully subsidized. since the state must target the bulk of the funds to lowincome families. it is possible that families with very low income could be fully subsidized for the cost of childcare services. in the substitute proposal. lowincome parents could receive. as i see it. using a bestcase analysis perhaps 30 to 40 percent of that money they need for child care. that means that they will still have to pay a substantial portion of their childcare expenses. those in favor of the substitute will argue that far more children will be assisted under that program than under abc. and that greater options are offered by the substitute. the problem i face. however. is when considering the lowincome individual. for example. an unmarried mother with two children who is trying to get off welfare by working. any tax credit she receives. refundable though it may be. is  going to cover her childcare services. it therefore seems to me that so far the abc answer seems the preferable answer. there may be better answers floating around this floor that may come up as debate continues. but abc seems to me to be a very. very important measure. and one on which i will be listening to arguments as we proceed in the ensuing days. i thank the chair.
. congress has recognized this problem before and has done something about similar situations. in title i of the tax reduction act we did include a specific disregard of the 1974 tax refund. to make certain that one would lose other federal benefits as a result of that payment. the amendment i am introducing today would do exactly the same thing for the working families who otherwise will be penalized when they receive the 1975 work bonus next spring. in conclusion. i would simply like to point out that this is just the latest example of the kinds of problems we cause whenever we begin to tamper with the welfare law. the entire system is fraught with inequities and administrative complexities. every time we do something to try to make the system a little betterlike the work bonus or the child support amendmentswhich we had to patch up before the august recesswe end up creating as many new problems as we solve. what is needed is a complete overhaul of the system. replacing the crazy welfare quilt we have put together over the years with a new equitable. humane and efficient income maintenance program. the domestic council has undertaken a major effort toward that end. under the very capable direction of the former under secretary of hew. john venneman. but if this effort is to be any more successful than the fruitless exercise over the last administration proposal for welfare reform. then all of usthe white house. the congress. the advocates. and the criticsmust set aside our rhetoric. eliminate the myths. and commit ourselves to finding a way for the wealthiest nation in the world to provide every capable person the opportunity for dignified work and to assure that every individual and family has an adequate income to maintain a decent standard of life. i can think of better goal for this congress in the bicentennial year. by mr. buckley:
. in connection with the continuing crisis between the united states and the state of mississippi. there is one factor which i believe should be mentioned and documented on the floor of the senateone which thus far has  received the attention it deserves. it is the relationship between the state of mississippi and the united states in ecoic terms. i serve on the committee on labor and public welfare and on other senate committees. and almost invariably when we go over the list of grantsinaid in various fields--whether in the field of various * types of education or in the field of welfarewe find that the amounts which go from the federal government to the state of mississippi generally greatly ex.ceed the amounts which are paid in taxes from that state. as compared with the situation in regard to other states. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. as part of my remarks. a complete table on the subject.
. one of our colleagues in the senate. the senator from colorado . and i. too. of course. are interested in the precise definition of what these funds would be used for if they were appropriated in the pending bill. section 527 of the social security act. the public welfare amendments act of 1962. reads as follows: sec. 527. (a) in order to assist the states to provide adequately for the care and protection of children whose parents are. for part of the day. working or seeking work. or otherwise absent from the home or unable for other reasons to provide parental supervision. the portion of the appropriation under section 521 for any fiscal year which is  allotted under section 522 shall be allotted by the secretary. and so forth. the point of the question is. what do the words "or otherwise absent from home or unable for other reasons to provide parental supervision" mean. do they open up a general operation for children who require day care. whatever may be the reason. or is it the intention of the senator who proposes the amendmentand. of course. that includes me too. and my intentionthat it shall be utilized for the protection of children whose parents are working or seeking work. is it to be the true classic daycare program. and that these general words of extension. "for other reasons to provide parental supervision." whatever they may mean. will  apply to this appropriation.
. the fundamental theory of my amendment is that the states. if they are willing and able to do so. should operate the program. but that the states should  be permitted by inaction in this caseconsidering the nature of this programto thwart the people of the united states in carrying out such a program in any area of any state which does  choose to take it over. i have endeavored in the amendment to carry out this idea. i point out that the concept of state administration is deeply embedded in our law. yesterday i mentioned some of the programs which have a similarity to the proposed program. which are administered by the states. overnight i obtained some figures as to what was involved in these programs. the aggregate of the programs of this character administered by the department of health. education. and welfare alone. involved an expenditure. in fiscal year 1963. of $2.792 million. in round figures. in short. far more was involved in those programs. which are directly state administered. than is involved in the proposed programs. it is also necessary to particularize. in doing so. we find a remarkable state of affairs as we go through the bill. time after time state plans are referred to. in one aspect of this bill. that of adult basic education. state plans. and state allocations are required. in the other parts of the bill. in the community action part and in the migratory labor program. emphasis is placed upon state plans. when we look for that section which will apply to the administration of the state plansand it is recognized in the proposed legislation itself that the entire administration will have to proceed by stateswe find only a very weak provision. contained in section 209(a). which reads: the director shall establish procedures which will facilitate effective participation of the states in community action programs. as we go through this bill in each of its parts we find frequent references to state plans. yet. when we try to find out who will administer the proposed plans. we find a very pallid provision. section 209 (a). to which i have referred. my amendment would make section 209(a) operate as it should. i propose to delete section 209(a) and substitute for it a revised provision for enabling the statesand i emphasize the word "enabling"-to carry out the provisions of this bill.
. i shall vote against the amendment. however. i tell my esteemed colleagues. the senator from colorado and the senator from california. that i shall do my utmost in the labor and public welfare committee to work out an orderly transfer of the headstart program to the office of education. as we consider bills pertinent to the matter. with the objective of effectuating the transfer at fiscal year
if the senator will check back on my presentation of the matter first. which i did on december 1. in putting the amendment into the committee. i made it very clear that  many plans were involved. see congressional record. december 1. 1970. at 39250. we have the hearings of the subcommittee on fiscal policy of the joint ecoic committee on that subject. so it is  a very dense problem in terms of the number of plans involved. the other point. which is critically important. is this: ody has a right. in any pension plan. to figure on social security increases to the retiree.
. we can see the percentage of workstudy students and the type of jobs they are holding. i also point out. in view of the fact that the whole subject will be in conference. that possibly a higher figure than the senator had in mind may well be agreed to. it may well be that this is the way in which we think the thing ought to go. we should deal with the proposal as it comes from the house along with the expressions which i and the senator from rhode island have made already in our views. i assure the senator in respect of myself and in respect of the labor and public welfare committee functioning as a legislative oversight committee that we will look into the question of this breakdown of community service opportunities. i am glad that the senator from tennessee has directed our attention to this. i think a very useful purpose has been served by offering the amendment and focusing our attention on this situation and exactly how it is being treated and the capabilities which exist respecting utilization of the workstudy program for encouraging the broad range of community services with the many new and highly deserving and capable people involved.
answering in reverse order.i would expect that legislative oversight should be very clear that the program should  be made available except on the basis of selfhelp ad- ed to what the federal government ma be able to do under the law. remember. we are only talking about 200.000 jobs as against 4.300.000 unemployed. so there is plenty of room for the federal government to insure funds reach areas most in need through the use of discretionary funds and so forth. i would feel that to the maximum extent possible we should favor areas which can be otherwise helpeda startling example of which is newark. n.j.. bearing in mind the de minimis numbers involved. on the first part of the question. is it in lieu of something else. the answer is  it is  in lieu of something else. it is an endeavor to deal more effectively with the problemto wit. the aggregate unemployment problem. it is  in lieu of other efforts which may be made in the welfare field. and so forth. as a matter of fact. that is one of the reasons why i oppose the taft substitute. because that is an effortthat is. it seems to me to be essentially "in lieu of." i believe that this particular program. that is the eea programbecause of its relatively small sizehas to be in aid of rather than in lieu of some other program.
. the fact that the formula for part a of title i occupies center stage in terms of order of magnitude should  be permitted to overshadow the changes made to parts b and c of title i. both of which are continued. part b. kn as the state incentive grant program. provides fundswith an appropriation limit of $75 millionto states based on their education effort. it benefits those states where the ratio of educational expenditures to total income exceeds the national effort ratio. this part. which is kn in our committee as the dominick amendment after the senior senator from colorado who sponsored its original inclusion in the law. has been updated in recognition of inflation. it benefits lowincome as well as highincome states. for example. major beneficiaries. it is estimated. for fiscal year 1975 will include louisiana. the highest concentrations of poverty childrenhas also been strengthened maine. michigan. new jersey. oregon. washington. wisconsin. and wyoming. part cspecial grants for areas with and i invite the attention of my colleagues to the detailed description of this provision--complete with charts--by our subcommittee chairman. mr. pell. on april 25. found on pages 1184850 of the provision benefits all types of communities throughout all parts of the nation. i stress these two latter parts. b and c.  only because they had their origins in law through amendments by my colleagues of the miity. but because the house bill seeks to delete them and it is my understanding that an effort may be undertaken in the senate to do likewise. i hope my colleagues will examine these provisions most carefully before considering such a move.
the senator is very gracious. i agree with him. i am glad we concur. as to the merits of the bill. mally. this would have just gone through on a motion. and so on. and one would have said anything about it here. but i asked the leadership to let me k so i might have a word on it. here is my point: there is question about the fact that of all the misguided. wrongendofthetelescope ecoies. this is it. we have suffered a diminution in our productivity in the last quarter of more than 6 percent. on an annual basis. and over the past year itself productivity has declined. too. you can contrive all the schemes you think of about: for example. issuing government credit for housing. arthur burns holding the line at the federal reserve. toughing it out. which apparently is the presidents view on the ecoy. or writing standby controls. or any other scheme that anybody else thinks of. it is all meaningless if the productive base is  there. that is what this country is built on. that is why america is great. without that. forget itwe are a second or third class power. one does  need any mirrors for that. look at great britain. great britain did  decline because she lost her empire. her empire was a drain on her toward the very end. but great britain declined in power because she lost productivity in the tremendous race that is taking place in the world today. they have the capacity. but. for whatever reason. they are  using it. the same thing can happen to us. it is very dangerous. and it is amazing to me that there are so few of us expressing ourselves on this subject. i am so deeply gratified by the constant fortification and support that the senator from wisconsin has given to this program. there are so few of us who realize that. let me give the senator a practical example. in jamestown. n.y.. i am very proud to say that. with my encouragement and with that of the local people. they have formed a labormanagement council to deal with productivity in local establishments. the result has been that that made jamestown. which was considered one of the worst labor markets in new york from the point of view of attracting business. absolutely turn 180 degrees the other way. and it is  about to get a new industrial facility which will add 25 percent to its labor force. at very high paying jobs. and will revolutionize that community. so it went from the worst to the best by that simple technique. . to my beloved colleague from wisconsin. he is very influential in his committee. this measure comes out of the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. he may evenwe are all cheering on the sidelinesbe chairman of that committee. i think it is our fault that we have  made egh of our case on the productivity issue. the senator from wisconsin is second in command of the joint ecoic committee. i am the ranking republican member thereon. he is the second in command of the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. i am  in any way asking him. and i k it is a request which is unnecessary. because he feels as strongly about it as i do. but does he  feel that it is our fault that we have  made the issue vivid egh to the american people. on the highest priority. and that we ought to swallow this. though it is a terrible thing to do. and it is really demeaning to all of us who understand the situation of our country. but there we are. it is a democracy. there are two houses. and we have to do the best we can. however. could  we dedicate ourselves to really making the case before the country. using the form of either the banking committee or the joint ecoic committee. and stamp it with the high priority which it deserves. so that to take this is a crushig defeatwill at least give us strength and inspiration to try to convert the defeat into a victory by demonstrating to the country how shortsighted and parochial it is to devote $21/2 million to the increase of productivity of american business. what is even worse. we k the mission is entirely sound. but that makes the $2.5 million even more demeaning to help improve the morale and quality of work for american working people. to give the senate the order of magnitude. we are engaged in activiites in the reform of pension and welfare plans to improve the morale of american workers. the assets of welfare pensions are $150 billion. and they are increasing at the rate of $12 billion every year. if we are successful with these activities. we will make it possible for 35 million workers to have a prospect of secure retirement. as against the present half prospect. because they have. largely. only social security. that is the order of magnitude of the morale of the american worker. and we are going to devote $2.5 million to that and for productivity. it is laughable. nevertheless. i think. as i have said. that we have been at fault. we have  made an adequate case. apparently. and that is what we ought to do before we swallow this particular spot of dust in a situation that needs a world of good. fresh earth on which to build.
. the action taken today by the committee on labor and public welfare in reporting the special employment assistance act of 1974 is most helpful to our country. this bill contains two substantial new measures to deal with the current and anticipated unemployment situation. already at the devastating rate of 6.5 percent in ember with about 6 million persons unemployed: first. the bill authorizes $4.0 billion for fiscal year 1975 to fund an estimated 500.000 transitional public service jobs during calendar year 1975at an estimated cost of $7.500 per year per jobin vital areas such as education. environmental quality. and health care. conducted through the system of state and local governmental prime sponsors established under the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973. these funds woulc supplement the $1.0 billion and 170.000 jobs already made available under title ii of ceta. which is confined to areas having unemployment of 6.5 percent or more for 3 consecutive months. new york state. which has had funds for the creation of 12.700 jobs. could receive funds for at least 50.000 additional 12month jobs in the next calendar year under this legislation assuming that the full amount is appropriated. the committee bill follows very closely the proposal i made in s. 2993. the emergency energy employment assistance act of 1974. introduced on february 8. with 14 cosponsors. which provided for the triggering of $4 billion when national unemployment exceeds 6 percent in 3 consecutive months. as we have already reached that threshold level with 5.8 percent unemployment in september. 6 percent in october. and 6.5 percent in ember. second. the bill will remedy one of the basic deficiencies of the unemployment insurance system by providing. for the first time. income replacement payments for workers who are  covered under any existing federal or state unemployment insurance law. there are estimated to be 10 to 12 million such workers. primarily state and local employees. farmworkers and domestic service employes. the bill will provide these workers with up to 26 weeks of assistance at a rate comparable to the benefits they would receive if their employment were covered by the present system. all unemployed workers would be eligible for these benefits when the unemployment rate is 6 percent or more for a 3month periodwhich test has already been met. so that the program can go into effect immediately after enactmentor on an area basis when a labor market area within a state experiences a 6.5percent unemployment rate for 3 consecutive months. this program will be federally financed. this committee action. on which we hope for action by the senate in the next few days. together with action being taken by the house of representatives and other committees of the congress. should make clear to the nation that the congress is joining with the executive branch to meet the unemployment aspect of the nations serious ecoic situation. thus helping to increase public confidence in the nations ability to restore ecoic stability to the nation.
. colorados peter dominick has served his state and his country with great distinction in the senate for the past 12 years. during our years together in the senate. i have been privileged to work with him on the labor and public welfare committee. i have come to admire his devotion to ideas and fidelity to principle. by virtue of our committee service. i am in a unique position to testify his deep commitment to a better education for all americans. all of the major education legislation of the last decade has borne the firm and distinguished imprint of peter dominick. for his efforts. educators. parents and students. young and old. owe to him a debt of gratitude.  only has he served his country well. he has also been a leadet of our republican party. peter dominick ks that the surest guarantee of our freedom is a strong and vigorous twoparty system. as a past chairman of the republican campaign senatorial committee. he devoted his every skill to assuring that the party put forth candidates who represented the best qualities of these united states. as a senator. a republican. and a friend. i thank him for the great contributions he has made to his state. his party. and his country. i wish him and his family all success and happiness in his future endeavors.
 the point is the pension people are going the same route as the banks. but senator proxmire has just stated the matter accurately: that as far as the half billion in city es are concerned. they are going to take a 10year obligation and an interest rate of 6 percent.
