. i am pleased to join in sponsoring the freedom of choice act. in 1973. the supreme court established that a woman has a constitutional right to choose to have an abortion in tile landmark case roe versus wade. iast july. the supreme court ruled in webster versus reproductive services that states may impose certain restrictions on access to abortions. although the courts decision in webster did  overturn roe. it did significantly increase the authority of the state to interfere with a womans choice to terminate a pregnancy. 1 have long supported the right of states to govern themselves as long as their laws do  unduly infringe on the rights of individual citizens. i believe the courts decision in webster allows states to do just that. thus. some states will impose restrictions on abortions and others will . a woman residing in a state which restricts abortions will go to a state where abortions arc available if she has the means to do so. however. a lowincome woman will  have the same ability to travel to aher state to obtain an abortion. i believe that the right to choose should be uniformly available throughout the united states. it should  be determined by the state in which a woman lives or by a womans ability to pay. a woman who becomes pregnant unexpectedly. regardless of the circumstances. must make a decision that will affect her for the rest of her life. she may consult with her family. friends. religious leader. doctor. or others to help her choose what is best for her. before fetal viability. she should  also have to consult with the state in which she lives. states can prohibit other reproductive freedoms such as a womans decision to prevent conception with some exceptions. and states should  be permitted to prohibit a womans decision to terminate a pregnancy. that is why i have joined in sponsoring the freedom of choice act. legislation which would codify the princlples established in the roe decision. simply stated. the bill would prohibit states from restricting the right of a woman to choose to terminate a pregnancy before fetal viability. or at any time if it is necessary to protect the life or health of a woman. i urge my colleagues who support a womans right to choose to join in sponsoring this legislation. although the freedom of choice act may be difficult to enact. i am hopeful that the senate will eventually approve this bill. and in so doing will ensure that women in every state will have the right to make their own decisions about their health and family.*
. are the parameters in which the discussion should take place. but it does  and it has  been for months. indeed. years. we have  discussed the issue within what is the law of the united states of america. the supreme courts statement of the right to abortion is clear. the state may  interfere during the first trimester of pregnancy. after the first trimester. the states "interest in the health of the mother" justifies its regulation of "the abortion procedure to the extent that the regulation reasonably relates to the presevation and protection of maternal health." only after viability of the fetus. which the court. based upon medical kledge. places at 24 to 28 weeks. does the states "interest in potential life" outweight the privacy rights of the mother. only at this point may the state interfere and "go so far as to proscribe abortion during that period. except where it is necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother." in subsequent decisions. the supreme court has refined the contours of the abortion rights. but it has  "retreat(ed) from roe." in planned parenthood of central missouri against danforth (1976) the court found that the abortion right impermissibly burdened by statutory provisions requiring spousal or parental consent or medical procedures  widely available. in maher against roe (1977) the court endorsed the position of the department of health. education. and welfare that the medicaid statute neither requires  prohibits state funding of therapeutic abortions. that is. the court endorsed a neutral approach to funding. underlying these. and other supreme court decisions concerning the abortion question. is the holding in roe against wade that the womans right to an abortion "protects the woman from unduly burdensome intereference with her freedom to decide whether to terminate her pregnancy." maher v. roe. 432 u.s. 464. 473474 (1977). despite the proncements of the supreme court. we in congress have interfered with a womans right to decide whether to terminate her pregnancy. at the time of the 1977 supreme court decision in maher against roe. the medicaid statute provided reimbursement for all abortions medically necessary for the preservation of physical or mental health. the fiscal year 1979 medicaid abortion funding language restricts all federal medicaid abortion funding to abortions necessary to preserve the life of the pregnant woman. abortions needed for rape and incest victims. and abortions necessary to prevent serious longlasting damage to a womans physical health. thus. the fiscal year 1979 language excludes abortions necessary to preserve a womans health but  required to prevent longlasting physical health damage. a federal court has found this language to be violative of the 14th amendment of the u.s. constitution by denying equal protection. recently. we have gone even farther into interfering with the womans right to abortion. in the continuing appropriations bill and the d.c. appropriations bill. the provision for funding abortions necessary to prevent serious longlasting damage to the womans physical health was deleted. we did this despite the clear statement by the supreme court in roe against wade that the state may  regulate. even during the third trimester. abortion "where it is necessary * * * for the preservation of the * * * health of the mother." the amendment which i am offering would bring the funding of abortions under this appropriations bill within the parameters of the constitutional guarantees afforded to pregnant women. as enunciated by the supreme court in roe against wade and its progeny. i am aware. but perhaps my colleagues are . of the fact that 4.500 babies are born every year with downs syndrome. that is 1 of every 650 children born a year. women over 35 have 1 in 100 chances of producing a child with chromosomal abmalities. 1 of every 750 babies. born has myelomeningocele. or spinabifida. a defect of spinal formation. epileptics who use dilantin have a 30 percent chance of giving birth to a child who has serious birth defects. thus. when we limit funding to abortions which are "medically necessary." whatever that means. we are denying women faced with the prospect of bearing a child with serious defects of the choice to make a decision. i am also aware. but perhaps my colleagues are . of the fact that women with sickle cell disease have a 25 percent chance of going into sickle cell crisis and dying as a result of pregnancywhile the mal pregnancy rate is 0.2 percent. however. matter how careful her care and physicians monitoring. it can be kn whether the state of her disease will remain unaffected by pregnancy. yet. under present law. we deny indigent women with sickle cell disease the funds to obtain the abortion which may be necessary to save their life. what we have done in the past is impose a governmentally ordained morality on an indigent woman. she ks she will  receive funds for an abortion. today. as a result of the d.c. and continuing appropriations. she will  receive funds for an abortion even if she is facing "severe and longlasting physical health damage." yet. if she chooses to follow the stateencouraged morality and bear her children. she will be reimbursed  only for her predelivery and delivery expenses but also for her childrens postnatal costs. prof. laurence tribe. the constitutional scholar from harvard law school. has aptly characterized the discussions concerning the viability of a fetus as "unmistakably religious." by denying funds for abortions while providing a significant financial incentive for bearing a child. the federal government is interfering with a religious choice. this interference is violative of the first amendment. these are the matters that should be discussed on the floor of the u.s. senate. and will be discussed on the floor of the u.s. senate.  whether or  we slowly gravitate toward the tenets of any religious faith.  it is  a monetary decision. the monetary decision was made as a matter of policy when we agreed to tend to those who needed medical care. it is  a matter as to whether or  we are going to insist that religion stay in the pulpit and that the law of the land. in its spirit and its detail. be  only adhered to. but advocated by the leaders of this nation.
i say to the senator that at the present time there are ongoing efforts to draft legislation which comprehensively addresses all of these problems. hearings will be held. and. believe me. the type of things which the senator suggests should receive investigation and deliberation and a decision will happen. it should  happen on an appropriations bill. indeed. i have already conceded part of the senators amendment is  that bad. the public health service itself feels that certain immigrants. the 530.000 that are asking for permanent residence. should be tested. that recommendation is before secretary bowen and others. but what we should  be doing. when all of this is in the works right . is taking this amendment on the whole. if you will. and sticking it on the supplemental. the answer to the senators question is. "yes. these matters should be tended to and. indeed. testing on highrisk groups should take place." maybe it will be mandatory. although there is one other problem. and that is assuring that the laws of privacy also are at the same level as the testing.
to address the last point of the distinguished senator from missouri first. let me make two points. title ix applies only to students and employees. it is incorrect that the reach of title ix could ever reach the general public. so the senators contention that title ix can force hospitals to perform abortions for the general public is false. second. hospitals which have a federally assisted education program do come under the reach of title ix. and to the extent that they are religiously controlled. they can receive an exemption. so let us do away with the fact that anybody is going to be forced to perform abortions on the public. that is  the case. let me address. if i can. several of the matters that have been raised in the very articulate presentation by the distinguished senator from missouri. i appreciate getting lettis from the department of justice. except that i think one has to consider. in terms of the substance of those letters. the source. first. this justice department. has been opposed to vie civil rights restoration act since the matter was first raised. they are against the act. period. this is the justice department that commended the court when grove city was handed down. so. clearly. this administration. this justice department. is going to do everything it can tr impede the progress of the civil rights restoration act or. indeed. if it does progress. to so shape it to the inclinations of this justice department and this administration. would that this justice department had strong feelings on behalf of the retarded and the protection of their rights. and of women and their rights. and of blacks and their rights. and of the elderly and their rights. enforcement has been ably lacking by this justice department in all these areas. and when they come up on the subject of abortion. this is. i suppose. one of the principal comments we have heard from the justice department relative to grove city or the civil rights restoration act. so. consider the source. i should like a copy of the letter from the justice department. the point being made here is that the justice department says in their letter. and i want to  use their letter: it is clear that this amendment will do hing to address tl- abortion issue raised by s. 557. in lighk of the enforcement of title ix under binding agency regulations. as analyzed in our january 25. 1988 bill comment on 8. 557. has it occurred to anybody that here is the administration that controls the regulations in their departments of education and health and human services. this is the justice department commenting on regulations. regulations are written by the executive branch of government. if they want the regulations changed. they can change the regulations. this. more than anything else. i think unmasks what is going on out there. this is just aher in the long series of abortion amendments tacked onto every bill that comes down the pike. if it is regulations that bother the administration. and obviously the administration is bothered. as evidenced by this letter from the justice department. it can change the regulations. it does  need the danforth amendment. again. consider the source: a justice department which has done everything under the sun  to enforce the civil rights legislation that is on the books and which cheered grove city and has consistently been opposed to the civil rights restoration act. so i am delighted that this is going to be passed among my colleagues. but.  1. consider the source. and.  2. the source says that it is the regulations that are going to be affected. regulations which in themselves can be changed by the executive agencies of this administration. do you think it can change regulations. do any of my colleagues have in the recesses of their memory a recent change of regulations by the administration in this general area. does my friend from missouri have any reaction that this same administration which can change title ix regulations has changed title x regulations when it comes to family planning. that is exactly what they have done: change the regulations. so this really is  an issue. is it. here is the hoax. here is the smokescreen. in dragging the regulatory argument out here as if remedy were  available to those who complain. they could change those regulations. as indeed they have changed title x. the third point is the legal memorandum from dewey. ballantine. i certainly hope that  a great amount of money was expended on that opinion. because all dewey. ballantine said is that courts could do this. as pointed out by the distinguished senator from oregon. they could do this. they could do that. courts can do anything. i have  been practicing law since i have been in the u.s. senate. but as i said. i could issue an opinion like that myself when i was in my general practice days as a young man in greenwich. ct. obviously. courts can do anything. there is hing very definitive about this great memorandum except courts could do this or could do that. if indeed the concern of the u.s. senate is the law that we are about to pass here on the floor of the u.s. senate. if that is the concern. and that the law reflects title ix before grove city. then most assuredly this packwoodkennedymetzenbaumweicker amendment gives the assurance the law will  be changed. i am  in the position here on the floor of the u.s. senate  are any of my colleagues. to say what the various executive agencies can or can do by virtue of regulation. why is it. as i say. that they can go ahead and change title x by regulation. but we can do anything with title ix. of course they can. but the larger purpose very frankly is aher abortion amendment to chip away at roe versus wade. that is what this is. the law. i repeat. as it  is situated does  force religiously controlled hospitals to perform abortions. it does . and that contention is entirely false both as to how title ix is applicable. because it is applicable to students and employees only and does  apply to the general public. exemptions can be granted to those religiously controlled institutions. and we have just been through that argument. if this body wishes. they can pass these two different amendments and they will achieve two different results. the weicker amendment. if passed. will guarantee change in the law visavis abortion. the danforth amendment. if passed. will radically change the law by repealing the executive branchs regulations. so those who have been arguing for change are the perpetrators of change. and maybe that is what the body wants. i do . i disagree with the danforth amendment. i have given my word that we should pass something that brings us back to the status quo. but a vote for the weicker amendment has a consequence. it clarifies the law and subsequent memorandums from dewey. ballantine. palmer. bushby & wood. a fine law firm. to the contrary withstanding. all that they say in their second memorandum is that this amendment which reinforces the law will  change executive regulations. big deal. they did  have to write a memorandum to tell me that. their other great conclusion in the first memorandum is that it could be interpreted by court to say such and such. very frankly. if i hire a law firm i would like a little more precise. definitive answer than that. but in any event. i would hope the body would adopt this amendment. if you want to have it both ways. you can have it both ways. i do  advocate that is what we ought to do because one proposes a radical change from the present regulatory stance. which can be accomplished by an administration that somehow has failed to do that. but if you really want to put it on ice then go ahead and pass this amendment. and you can also go ahead and pass the danforth amendment which i will oppose for some of the reasons i have described here. i also recognize the fact that has been validly raised by the distinguished senator from missouri that there might be those who vote for this amendment would  want to vote for his amendment. but ody is asking for any cover. ody is asking for any cover. what we want is a civil rights restoration act passed. with the rights of women. the elderly. the retarded. and miities to be fully protected by the force of the federal government. and a cessation of subsidized discrimination in this nation. that is the issue before us. and as i said on the rupert murdock amendment and all others that have come along here. these people have been waiting in line and i think these abortion amendments are getting a little tiresome. regardless of the vestments in which they are paraded on the floor of the u.s. senate. they come down to the basic bottom line: let us do something to legislatively change the decision in roe versus wade. that is what it all comes down to. there is basis in the present law to justify the danforth amendment. as i said in my opening statement. there is hing in the present law to justify a weicker amendment. it is already the law. but to allay fears. the amendment is presented to this body. and i hope it would be adopted. i hope this amendment. as every other extraneous piece of legislation that is going to be hea..)ed on this bill. will be rejected. all we should do is to reaffirm what we meant in the first place. that the civil rights laws of this nation are to be enforced with all the power at our command and that means if you discriminate you do  get taxpayer money. period. i am sorry that we continue to be diverted from what this bill is about. to once again get into arguments on abortion. i have been told. i might add. that we have school prayer waiting in the wings. and probably aids amendments. et cetera. i thought that maybe for once something that was magnificent in its ideals. such as the underlying legislation. would have its day before the u.s. senate and  be sullied by the extraneous
. i have met with mr. joseph califaand studied the committee hearings on his ination to be secretary of health. education. and welfare with great care. as ranking miity member of the senate laborhew appropriations subcommittee. i have been very encouraged by mr. califa grasp of hew programs and by his expressed willingness to work closely with congress  only in funding and implementing programs but in formulating them as well. his concern for the least fortunate in our society is impressive. however. i am disturbed by mr. califa strong opposition to government financing of abortions. the supreme court has ruled that within certain limitations a woman has the right to an abortion. however. when a woman does  have the money for an abortion. that right becomes moot. the lower courts have recognized this. they have also steadfastly ruled that the government must  discriminate against women who. for one reason or aher. feel that they must choose abortion. the lower courts have thus ruled that when the government chooses to finance maternity care. it can then refuse to finance abortion services. this is crucial for the many poor women who can afford abortion only because of the availability of medicaid funds. i have fought to assure that federal funds would be available for abortions for poor women. to have done otherwise would have been a denial of constitutional rights. therefore. i can only be disturbed by a policy aimed at denying those funds. a policy which would go even further by refusing in the future to cover abortions under national health insurance. to claim that funds other than those from the government would be available for abortions is specious. but this is  the policy. the insensitive policy i feel. of the carter administration. if it were  mr. califaespousing this policy for the new administration. it would simply be someone else. mr. califa however. has categorically promised to uphold the law regarding federal financing of abortions and we are  awaiting the supreme court decision as to what that law is. therefore. despite my strong disagreement with mr. califaabout federal policy on federal funding of abortions. i will vote for his confirmation based on that promise. i shall. however. continue actively to fight to insure a womans freedom of choice. and hope that the administration and mr. califawill come to see the wisdom and necessity of this stand.
i thank my distinguished colleague from new york who has aptly said he has always been. in this senators opinion. in the forefront. as usual. in his wisdom. he has put his finger right on the issue. what they are trying to do by the language that the house has adopted is to put an ecoic test on the question of abortion. what they really wanted to do was to get a constitutional amendment and. failing to get this constitutional amendment. they targeted on the most vulnerable sector of our society. namely. poor women who could  afford to have an abortion if they made that decision with the consent or advice of their doctor. at the same time. other women who could afford it could make that decision and go into a safe. legal clinic and have an abortion. as the senator from new york ks. from his years of experience. abortions for women who have been able to afford them have been going on for a long time. they have been in the name of d and cs and other things. but they have been having them because they could go into a hospital or a clinic and have it. and it would never even be reported as such. but. as the senator has always said in his wisdom. we k of the poor women who have had to go into the back alleys and use coat hangers and the like. and we k before the days of antibiotics how many died as a result of poisoning which had set in. so we are in the forefront. and we are moving ahead. i think the country is moving ahead. and i think more people are coming to understand the plight of these unfortunate women. as i said the other day. it is a related issue. it took 72 years to give women the right to vote. for 55 years we have been trying to give them equal rights. i hope during this session of congress we are going to do that. too. and that places congress in the forefront again. . in regard to abortion i hope we will  do any worse than we did in 1977. and i hope the day will soon come when we will go further still. because the battle is  over by any means. and we k that. it will be back again. it will be back in 1979. and it will be back in 1980. i hope the country will recognize what the problems are. realize the necessity for the kind of legislation that we are attempting to get. and recognize alsoand i must put this word inthe need for family planning in this country. it is a subject that is so close to me because. being on this committee. i have had an opportunity to chair hearings and to listen to testimony. i k that we  have a very serious teenage pregnancy epidemic in this nation. and one seems to be concerned about it. i see this lack of concern in the budget request for family planning that comes in from the administration and. at the same time. i see it in the paltry sum of money that they spend for sex education. the administration uses the euphemism "health education." well. they can call it what they will. but you can overlook the fact that hundreds of thousands of young girls become pregnant each year. many of them have to have abortions but others have their babies when they are literally babies themselves. we close our eyes and put our heads in the sand and say that this problem either does  exist or it is going to go away. maybe it is a problem of the home. the family. the church. the state. i do  k what it is. but it is a problem that is  going to go away. it is a problem we have got to face. it is a reality we have got to come to grips with. we have to do something in the line of enlightened family planning and sex education in this country. in our public school system. and the need for that kind of education has got to be brought to the attention of the american people across the whole spectrum of our society. hopefully. we will begin to do so. therefore. i am very grateful to our distinguished colleague from the new york for entering into this colloquy with me. i think it has been very helpful. and i am always  only inspired but overjoyed at the contributions that he makes in so many different fields. and certainly in this field of civil rights and equality for the women of this country.
