. i will conclude with just one final thought. and that is that this house has an opportunity here. in supporting the bingham amendment. to make clear. before it is too late. that we do stand back of the unesco constitution and the charter of the united nations. that the dangers of politicizing efforts in the education and cultural areas are serious. and that if politics of a narrow and partisan kind are to be permitted and respected and condoned by the united states and by the united nations. mankind will suffer. if this amendment is supported. i hope that this warning will be heeded while there is yet time to restore the integrity to the u.n.
the declarations are. first: convinced also that racial discrimination harms  only those who are its objects but those who practice it. aher declaration is: convinced further that the building of a world society free from all forms of racial segregation and discrimination. factors which create hatred and division among men. is one of the fundamental objectives of the united nations. i think all mankind will applaud this declaration and its quality. i would feel deeply disappointed if the united states did  find a way to join in it. as i am confident it represents the overwhelming opinion of the people of this country. both as respects manifestations of segregation and discrimination in the united states and as respects our feeling that such discrimination and segregation should be eliminated. wherever else it may be. ably in connection with the policy of apartheid in the union of south africa. which is unjust for so many millions of persons there. and which endangers the peace and security of that great continent. i am confident this can be done by appropriate reservation. in view of the legal problems which it presents to our delegation at the u.n.. but i rise today to call attention to the importance of the declaration and to emphasize the fact that it is  only meaningful to point out that there is a great problem in the world and that segregation and discrimination on an international scale are one of the great problems of mankind. but that the united nations is  trying to take a hand in an effort to solve them. this is to the good. it represents my ardent desireand i think it represents the desire on the part of the overwhelming majority of the american people. certainly the people in my statethat the united states should  refrain from being a party to the declaration. but that it should join in it. as can be done by appropriate reservation. at the time the vote is cast. to save itself from any implication that the constitutional mandate is being compromised. that could  be done. anyway. under our law. the constitution can be set aside by a treaty or declaration. in this case. the declaration is  a treaty. but i think we should make the necessary reservations and  fail to aline ourselves with a movement of such great importance to mankind and to the conscience of our country. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times on this subject may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i have come back from as far away. i believe. as anyone could come back to the senate. i have come back from the west coast of mexico. i am glad that i did. because the senate as an institution is very dear to me. as it is dear to the nation. i have a very deep feeling. based upon contact with many new yorkers and americans in other states during the year. that there is a great need to keep this institution high in the public esteem. because congress standing has suffered seriously in the eyes of the american people. and that feeling of respect of the people for the congress is perhaps as important as what is set out in the constitution itself for the congress to do. the least any of us can do. therefore. is to do our very best to maintain the distinction and ho we have by doing our business promptly and with expedition. i agree with what the senator from kentucky has said about the resolution on germaneness of debate for some hours in each day of the senator from rhode island. i hope that also a resolution providing for a commission to make a review of the procedures of congress will be adopted. and without limitations as to the area of its inquiry. so that congress may be able to act and proceed in the way in which the people of the country want our business to be transacted. finally. i am glad to have come back. because if this situation signalizes the importance which foreign aid continues to have in the eyes of the senate and of a majority of the people of the nation. it is a good thing. it is the only real offensiveas distinguished from the defensivewe have against communism in the world. until someone proposes something betterand i am trying to do that myself through efforts in connection with the private enterprise system. under provisions  incorporated in the billto carry on this program we must carry it on with vitality and conviction. one of the ways of showing conviction is by coming back. when necessary. and in so difficult a way for many of us. in order to conclude action on the bill before the year ends. so i commend the senators in the conference. i am glad that i have returned to be a party to completing the task in the way in which it ought to be done.
